ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Members Snels and Van Weyenberg amending the proposal for a law of Members Snels and Van Weyenberg laying down rules on the accessibility of information of public interest (35112). I would, of course, like to welcome Mr Snels and Mr Van Weyenberg, the initiators. They are supported in box K by Mr Jaap van der Heijden, policy officer at the GroenLinks group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term of office took place on 29 October 2020, last year. Today we are discussing the answer and the second period as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u2	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Snels for his answers in the first term. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for the first-term questions. This is an important debate. It's also an important law. I should like to begin with a special thank you to Mr Snoeren for his maiden speech. I found it very beautiful and inspiring myself. He told me about his experiences as a professional military. He was sent to Kosovo, Bosnia and Iraq. At that time he contributed something from his role as a professional military and now in the Chamber as a Member of Parliament he contributes something to the Netherlands and Dutch society. That's his motivation. There are sometimes comments and questions: what are all these MPs doing? From left to right in the Chamber are all MPs who, like Mr Snoeren, want to mean something to society. So thank you very much for Mr Snoeren's maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the support we have. That's good to do. You yourself have already mentioned Jaap van der Heijden, the member of the Green Left Group. I would also like to thank Marte van der Loop, the BZK employee who has been loaned to this initiative law for many years, Karsten Zwanenveld, the policy officer of D66 who is not present, Lentine Schouten, an associate of the Minister of BZK who has been involved in this legislation, and many policy staff in the political groups and in departments that have contributed to the implementation of this law. Of course, I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament who submitted this law for us, for Mr Van Weyenberg and myself, starting with Mariko Peters, then Gerard Schouw and Linda Voortman. Mr Van Weyenberg and I stand on the shoulders of many, I shall say. But it is a pleasure to be standing here now and to be able to defend this amending law in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. It is good to outline the order of our debate for Members of Parliament. I will begin myself with the recent history and purpose of the Open Government Act. The gentlemen Van Raak and Bosma asked: what were the adventures of the boys? I believe those were the words of Mr Van Raak. What was the timeline, asked Mr Bosma. I'll start with that. Let me say a few words about funding and the scope and business data. These included questions from Mr Snoeren. Let me say a few words about decision-makers and common regulations. Then Mr Van Weyenberg will take over. He discusses culture, personal policy ideas, active disclosure and decisions, multiannual plan, register, advisory board, information commissioner, and then he has a very small block left. So you could say that I passed on all the difficult questions to Mr Van Weyenberg. Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's a short story after all. I won't go back to 2011. In my opinion, Mr Van Raak's and Mr Bosma's questions were not yet available. At that time, the law was ahead of the First Chamber. At the request of and in response to questions from First Chamber members, the then Minister of the Interior himself took the initiative to have a quick scan done by ABDTOPConsult. There were also questions at that time about the feasibility and reliability of the law. We, as initiators, were not involved in this at the time, but it was a reasonable question. ABDTOPConsult's report showed me for a moment that the costs were enormous. They were around 1 billion incidental and 1 billion structural. Those were very high costs. Of course, we ourselves have some reservations about this. It was a quick scan. We ourselves feel that the interpretation of the law by ABDTOPConsult was somewhat exaggerated when it comes to active disclosure, the deadlines for this to be done and what documents were and were not covered by it. We also had a bit of the impression that the late maintenance in the government's information system was also put under our law. So we had the feeling that there were some comments to make on the report of ABDTOPConsult. At the same time, it was not only a political reality, but also a real practical reality that the law was difficult to implement and that there were high costs. So apart from the question of exactly how high they were: the costs were too high and the feasibility was justified to ask questions. That stopped until a new cabinet came in, a new coalition. In the coalition's coalition coalition agreement it was stated that the cabinet, and especially the Minister of the Interior, was given the task of consulting the initiators in order to reach an enforceable and affordable Open Government Act. It is, of course, quite a peculiarity that I, as a member of the opposition, co-execute the coalition agreement. But that's what happened. Actually, from that moment on, that was my predecessor Linda Voortman, but I got into a conversation pretty soon about how to get a law open government that's really affordable, but that's also feasible. One day, that law started out as some sort of utopia of Mariko Peters. We had a lot of conversations with professors and we looked at what was common in other countries. The register was a very important instrument in this, but that was almost a utopian reality. Suppose we have all the information from the government and if that is in one register, then we have a complete overview that can be searched, that is transparent and that can be requested. Then we know everything and then it is also clear to society what kind of information there is. But that's a utopia. In fact, a lot of the discussions we have had since then are about how we ensure that the law itself is enforceable in all these public bodies. So we have gradually moved from utopia to discussions on how the law is enforceable for the people who have to do it, so for the government, for civil servants, for all public bodies. At that time, agreement was reached quite quickly on the need to replace the register. So we also replaced that with a multiannual plan, by the college, which we made temporary at the time, and by the liaison officers who would be appointed everywhere to all public bodies, to ensure that the information system of the government would gradually be discussed, that there would be contact officers for citizens to ask for information and that there would be an independent college, which could advise on the state of government information management. In the opinion of the initiators, it still met the goals as the law formulated, and as it lies in the Upper Chamber. But much more thought has been given to the feasibility of public bodies. In mid-2018 we reached substantive agreement with the cabinet and with the domes, i.e. with the local authorities, VNG, the water boards and the provinces. I remember this very vividly: we, as initiators of the minister's chamber, together with the representatives of the domes. Tripartite consultations and tripartite agreement on the feasibility of legislation. So once again it was a coalition chamber member, an opposition chamber member, a minister and our local governing bodies. That is where agreement was finally reached: this law, with the adjustments we have made, is enforceable. The affordability wasn't settled at the time. Next, in autumn 2018, we had an SMEA, a social cost-benefit analysis, carried out: what about the costs of all the changes we made to the law? It was finished in the autumn of 2018. That SMBS showed that there was something... what was it? Three zeros went off of ABDTOPConsult. So with this SME, we were able to show that it would work out well with that affordability. At that time, the cabinet decided that the SMEA and its results at macro level still had to be verified and tested by implementing tests in all these public bodies, i.e. in the departments and in the local authorities. A lot of time has passed. That was an extensive exercise, but it was important, because it had to show what was going on in terms of feasibility and certainly affordability. In the meantime, we also had an agreement with the Cabinet of the State, but the law has been submitted and sent to the Council of State for advice. Because we did agree on the feasibility. In June 2020, when all the execution tests were completed, the government finally decided that this law, the Open Government Act, was enforceable. All execution keys were then sent to the Chamber. Our main interlocutor was the Minister of the Interior. That was a question from Mr Bosma, I believe, but also a little from Mr Van Raak. We have also had a lot of discussions about it with a lot of officials. In the meantime, however, we have also had discussions, sometimes we have done so ourselves, sometimes our official support with DNB, AFM, the Council of State, TNO and VNO-NCW, actually with all those organisations that are affected by the law. Those were our adventures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u4	And then you look at Mr Van Raak. He'll get up right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u5	She asked for it, Madam President. He asked, "What were the boys' adventures?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u6	Although a bit of a process described, I find it particularly interesting to hear. I would also like to know the emotions, the fire at the table, but compliments. I like to hear it. I find it interesting to hear how utopia has come to an enforceable law. But yesterday I read another utopian story in the media, namely that this law would provide a solution for the Ruttedoctrine and for Article 68, the information position of the Chamber. I have not been able to read that, so how do the authors explain their comments in the media that this law would solve problems relating to the Court's information position, to interpretations of Article 68 of the Constitution, and to tax fraud etc.? Because I haven't been able to read all that in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u7	I was actually going to come back to that later, but I can also answer that question right away. Look, Mr. Van Raak is asking for emotions. Over the past few years, I have had quite a lot of emotions in all the conversations I have had with both members and officials around the cabinet, but also with all kinds of other organisations. Maybe it's not just my experience from the past. What is it? Two and a half years, but you can see that we have encountered a great deal of resistance in the history of the last eight years since we talked about the law. Maybe that's a little... Also for drivers, nothing human is strange to them. If you're a driver, then the first question is: well, is it necessary to disclose information? And is it really necessary to invest in the government's information system, even here in the Chamber? There's a lot of resistance. That is precisely why we have consulted the cabinet, including myself as an opposition chamber member, so that enforceable laws can be passed. But there is that resistance. What do you see in that supplement report? Look, that's about a lot more. I myself happen to be a spokesperson, as a tax spokesman. A lot of things went wrong there. That is where the legislation went wrong. There a lot of mistakes have been made in the implementation of the Tax Administration. That is where people's legal protection has not been in order. The supplement system has not been in place there. That is where the legislation was not in order. There, signals have not been picked up from practice, either on departments of officials and senior officials, or on government officials. So much went wrong there. But whatever went wrong is information management itself. Take a look at... Not only the Chamber but also journalists in recent years had a lot of questions to the cabinet about all kinds of memos, information and reports. I think there are two things involved here. One. The culture. People think: do we even want to share that information? And two. The information wasn't in order. Which filing cabinets did not have to be opened up at the Tax Office and at the Ministry of Finance in order to ultimately provide the society, journalists, but certainly also MPs with information? That was a reason for us to look again at our law. Then you'll have to make a distinction. The first debate, and I do not think we said anything about it yesterday, is the debate on Rule 68. I believe that Mr Van der Molen also indicated this in his first term. There is a debate on Article 68 of the Constitution, which deals with the information position of the Chamber and which information the Cabinet is willing or unwilling to give to the Chamber. There is also a Chamberwide vote on this. That is not our debate. That is not the debate we are having with the Open Government Act. But there is a relationship. That was there first with the old Wob, but now with the Act of Open Government. It is about the information given to society and to journalists. Then we thought that as initiators we were talking about it for a while: can we use this report now as some kind of wind in the back? Everyone in society and everyone in the Chamber now sees that we have a problem here, that this information system is not in order and that we need to invest in it. Our law is also about putting that information system in order. What can we do to make an extra step in that? We have made the proposal to use the PLOOI platform for this purpose, to ensure that that information reaches it. We have also made an additional tightening, so that it becomes clear which information will eventually be put on a platform. You know, it's not the old register, but it's going there. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u8	I think you have the potential to become a ruler when I see this. Give a comprehensive answer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u9	So that's important. That certainly has to do with the Open Government Act. How can we put this information system in order and have our support now? That's up to you, in the Chamber. Do we have any support for further tightening up on this? The second question, also from Mr Bosma, is that the Commissioner for Information has disappeared. The Chamber amended it in a previous procedure. Our tendency has always been: we do not want to repeat old debates. It was Mr Van Raak himself who said: those boys went to the First Chamber, I can imagine all kinds of amendments, but sometimes you have to live with the reality that this is it. We do not want to repeat old debates. But I've never quite liked the information commissioner to be completely gone. That had to do with the ombud function there, specifically to journalists, scientists and professional groups involved, but certainly journalists. Then we thought: while we have put the college into that law, we can also give that college a role in this ombud function for journalists. That is what we have now regulated in that law. This is directly linked to this Open Government Act and ensures that journalists now, if they have conflicts with government agencies that do not want to provide information, can go to some kind of ombud function or role of the college that we propose, which can mediate in that information provision to journalists. That's what we communicated yesterday. That is what we made in the letter of amendment and that was the role we saw before the Open Government Act in the supplement dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u10	What I agree with is that something is going to change. The problems at the Tax Office show that our rule of law has been violated. So those politicians, those officials, must realize that this information is not theirs but theirs and that they, like the citizens, ask for it, or if the Members of Parliament ask for it, or if the journalists ask for it, must deliver it, and that they cannot think: I do not give it, I do not give it. I believe there will be a cabinet position on this Friday. Have the proposers considered waiting for this law to be dealt with until that cabinet position is in place? Because then we also know what the cabinet wants to do, whether the cabinet is going to make that change or not, and what we could possibly supplement through this law itself. So why the debate now and not after Friday? The second question. I have also seen in the amendment that the temporary committee becomes permanent. It's beautiful. Journalists can go there. But can that committee force information to be given? Can the committee enforce that and say, "No, that information needs to be provided? With the consideration of a ministry to give information X or information Y or not, are we not in agreement"? Is this some kind of profession, too? Is this some kind of judge who can say, no, government, you're going to deliver?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u11	Maybe first on the first question. Have we considered waiting? Of course, we saw the arrival, at least, of course, I also read the newspapers and I read that there will be a cabinet position on the supplement report. But as I have just said: that report, and hence the cabinet response, may I assume, is about much more than just providing information to society. 'Cause that's what the Woo's about. There's a relationship. I will also deal with the CDA's amendment and the personal policy ideas; I thought Mr Van Weyenberg had that in his answers. So there's a relationship, but that cabinet response is about much more: legal protection, the rule of law, implementation, fraud policy, everything. As far as information is concerned, and I assume that the cabinet will, above all, consider it, the debate on Article 68 of the Constitution is, of course, a matter for discussion. When it came to information, it was your colleagues Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt who took the lead, but of course many other Members of Parliament who constantly ask questions, ask questions from the cabinet and do not get them. That's really Article 68. More than a year ago, we also had a lively debate with the cabinet, not least in the Finance Committee, about the fact that the cabinet does not comply with Rule 68. A Chamber-wide motion was also adopted that the cabinet should finally comply with Article 68 of the Constitution. Even if individual MPs ask for information, the cabinet has to deliver it. That's the Cabinet, that's not the Open Government Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u12	My second question was actually even more relevant. This committee, which is therefore temporary, will become permanent. When a journalist goes to that committee and says, "I'm not getting this information and this information." What can a committee like that do? Can such a committee force the information to come? Or can that committee just give advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr Van Weyenberg will go into this further in his replies, but in fact it is comparable to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman also has such a function, but the Ombudsman's rulings are not binding either. But that Ombudsman has such authority, and I hope that this college will eventually build up that authority, which if that college is going to mediate it will indeed have effect in individual cases. That's one. And two: they are now also given an advisory role, task, right, when it comes to disclosure of information. So let's say that the college makes an annual report, and the things that are offered to the college show that I am just mentioning what the Ministry of Finance is much more reluctant to deal with information requests from journalists than, for example, the Ministry of Education, then has that effect. In addition, that college will also advise on public access. This puts us at the heart of the debate about the Open Government Act, if it has a relationship with those surcharges. It's really important. That is why we have said ourselves: we are not going to wait for the cabinet response. There is a natural tendency among drivers to ask: should it, and should we invest? I think that perhaps the cabinet will think differently about this now, but it is really important that we take up office as Chambers and say what we think is important and how we shape openness and transparency. What we have done, though, are the adventures of the past three and a half years. 'Cause they're gonna have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosma is not here. I've already gone into the intelligence commissioner. He asked: what is left of the Open Government Act? Well, actually, a lot. Mr Van Raak put it this way: information belongs to the citizen. That's what we're recording. We're recording the right to information. That wasn't recorded in the Wob. It is actually not even well laid down in our Constitution. There is a kind of task that the government must be transparent, but even in our Constitution, it is not quite established as a citizen's right, if you compare it with other countries. That's what we're recording. It's symbolic, but it's practical, because there's a lot of stuff coming out of it. There will be active publicity. That makes the law complex. I think that is what Mr Snoeren and Mr Van der Molen's questions were about. The law's a little complicated. The Council of State also commented on this. Mr Van Weyenberg will also say something about this. But precisely because we have specified it, including all the exceptions, it is now much clearer for all public bodies what information they should disclose. The obligation to state reasons has been strengthened, the scope has been extended, the obligation to care for the quality of the information has been established, there is a possibility to bring the semi-public sector under this law. We also tried to dejure them through those contact officers. Eventually, we're going to take really, really, really big steps forward compared to the law that's in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u16	In the first term, we asked questions about this long list of exceptions to the decisions that should be published. The question I raised, if I remember correctly, is that decisions do not constitute a exhaustive list. There is no fixed number of decisions that never go off or ever come up with anything. It's mobile. How am I supposed to see that in relation to this proposal? You could say "we're putting it neatly in the law," but what if there's a type of decision? How do we deal with that? Is there any racket in this law or will we go through another process to create other possibilities when we think that the list is too short or too long?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u17	I have a little too much tendency to mow the grass at my colleague's feet. This is really in Mr Van Weyenberg's response set. Otherwise, I'm gonna be talking for far too long. Mr. Chairman. The college, the active disclosure, getting that information system in order, that's all under this law. People ask, are you still satisfied with the law? I believe that Mr Van Raak said: the initiators will be very dissatisfied that the register is out and that the information Commissioner is out. Sure, there are a lot of things that end up hurting in such a process, but I do fully support the law as we submitted it. These are really big steps ahead of the Wob. When the Wob was introduced 40 years ago, we were ahead of our neighbouring countries in the Netherlands, but here it turned out to be the law of the restraining edge. Precisely because we made this Wob 40 years ago, it has not been possible to take a really big step forward and ensure that both the government's information system and the culture are being changed. The government must be transparent and share information, not only with the Chamber, but also with society. Mr. Chairman. I've come to some more specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr Sneller has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u19	In an earlier reply, Mr Snels referred to PLOOI. The register has been removed and that hurts Mr. Snels. Could he explain a little more about how that register... or is he going to push it through? Because he mentioned both cases, I thought, "Maybe he can bring them together." If Mr Van Weyenberg does that, I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u20	It is also in the reply set of colleague Van Weyenberg. Mr. Chairman. I have already said a great deal about the adventures, about history and about the goals of the law. There are a few more specific questions to be asked about the letter of amendment. The MPs receive letters about the money, for example from the Association of Dutch Municipalities. It is quite right that it has been pointed out that, if this law is adopted, we must ensure that the law can be financed not only in all departments but also in local authorities. We want the law to be enforceable, but we also want all public bodies to be able to implement it. And there's just money in there. The SMEA and the implementation tests have shown about the size of what the law costs, so I say as a financial spokesman, but we have always seen it in the division of roles that we, as initiators, are not about. This is up to the cabinet, more specifically to the Minister of the Interior, who, under the Financial Relationship Act, conducts talks with the local authorities and with the domes. It is ultimately the Minister of Finance in the Cabinet who is responsible for ensuring that this law is also covered and that there is financial scope for the implementation of the law. But we ourselves have had the position: we leave this to the cabinet. Our mission was to achieve an affordable and enforceable law. Our judgment and also the judgment of the cabinet is: the law is enforceable. We also believe that the law is affordable. Coverage is really up to the cabinet. But it is right for Members of Parliament to ask all these questions, and it is also right for all public authorities to think that the cabinet should clarify this. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about company records. That was, I think, a question from Mr Snoeren in particular and not from Mr Van der Molen, right? I thought only of Mr Snoeren, but there is now an amendment tabled by Mr Snoeren and the SGP. I must say that I have difficulty with this amendment. I think it is literally the amendment from four years ago. You know, about not repeating old discussions... The VVD is looking for: we want to join the support; can you repeat that old discussion four years ago and still look at our amendment again? Look, I can assure Mr Snoeren that we have really looked at all the details of the legislation in all our discussions: do we do the good things, is it feasible, are we not crossing a border, are we not making it impossible? That's what we did with the company records. Yes, it is true that, if you look at the Wob, we are out of line with what is customary internationally, as well as with what is stated in international treaties and European directives. In fact, I think it is true that in the autumn of a report by the European Commission, we had a pointer on the absolute grounds for refusing information as we have now laid down in our legislation. The European Commission is critical of this, because there is something else in mind. That's about the relative balancing ground. That is what the amendment is about. The VVD proposes that company data and manufacturing data be absolutely excluded from this law, so never disclosed. They can't go public. That's crazy, because we don't do that to people either. From the GDPR and from the privacy point of view, the government handles data from people, individuals very carefully. However, sometimes in public sector information names of individuals are made public. That is a relative consideration, if I say it correctly, a relative ground for refusal. Is there an interest for society to be able to share information? In fact, this also applies to companies. It's already been arranged in the Wob for environmental information. There we see and feel it all. If there is a factory that has emissions or has environmental effects, that is a relative ground for refusal, because society may have an interest in getting information from that company, because there are effects for society, for residents or for other companies. Then that information can go public. This is a balance of interests which must first of all make the public authority which has that information, but ultimately also the judge. That is indeed a relative balance of interests. There are more examples than just environmental legislation. Think, for example, of labour law and working conditions. Suppose it's about people's health in factories or organisations that are at stake because a company doesn't handle them very carefully in its production processes. It should then eventually be possible for information to be shared, because there is a greater interest, for example the importance of public health, in sharing information. This could also be the case in the case of spatial planning legislation. Individuals already do; if you have big remodeling plans with an effect on your neighbors and there's a permit for that, your name becomes known. Then information is shared. But individuals, too, are always concerned with the importance of privacy. By aligning this with individuals in the law, we are in fact proposing that companies should no longer be given an exemption. That is also common international practice. Mrs Buitenweg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u21	Yes, I see her, but were you done with your way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u22	Yeah, I was done. I made a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u23	I had a question about this amendment. There are a number of things that change the law. I have a question about this amendment. Does this amendment, when incorporated into the law, change the current situation? Is the law with this amendment therefore a deterioration of the current situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u24	You need to look at that a little nuanced. You're going back to the Wob, so it's about the Wob. But in the Wob, for example, environmental information is already excluded. So if the VVD believes that company-specific information should always not become public, then it is not, even in the Wob, when it comes to environmental data. So we are actually going back to the Wob, which is the VVD's proposal, when it is customary internationally, in international treaties, in European directives and in neighbouring countries, not to lay down that absolute ground. How do I put it legislativeally, for the history of law? They also do not say absolutely: business data is always kept secret and will not be made public. There may be an interest in taking public health, spatial planning or any other interest of society where this can be done. Perhaps it is good, also for the history of law, to say that it is not our intention for the government to deal lightly with it, as the government does not do with individuals. We are not supposed to disrupt market conditions. It is not intended that information sensitive to competition should just be on the streets. However, there may be a moment where there may be examples where there is a greater interest in sharing some information, because the importance of society is greater than the specific interest in keeping information from companies completely secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u25	I understand that it is at least against a trend that is developing in other European countries. But then I find it a little complicated to understand. So it's against that trend and it's more in line with the current Wob. But is it a deterioration in the current situation, or is it a stagnation where you want a change, more in line with European development?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u26	Simply put, the VVD proposes to stick to this point with the current Wob. It is therefore a continuation of the current situation and not an improvement. But Mr Snoeren has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u27	Well, you can take over! Mr Snoeren on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thank you for the detailed explanation of the amendment. It is true that we aim to leave it as it is. There's an important reason for that. We see that I have also been approached by several parties about this. We may be very reluctant to cooperate with the government, so that we have nice public collaborations. The Council of State has also clearly stated that we are acting in the autonomy of these private institutions. No matter how well you explain it, that's a very big risk. We are not ready to take that risk yet, because we think it is important that these companies continue to cooperate with us as a government and do not fall back on the change you are proposing. Can you explain to me again why you expect it not to happen? Because I'm just being approached by those companies, by the employers' organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u29	Maybe on two levels. One. This is part of the adventures of Mr Van Raak that we have heard in recent years. Ask any organization, anywhere, where the Woo has any influence, has an impact. Then the answer is always: yes, public access is very important, but not for me. That is the first tendency, and that also applies to VNO-NCW. That we open the gates to corporate espionage and all that, is really all scary. So that VNO-NCW explains that one more time and makes another plea for it, I get it, but we really looked at it carefully. At the point of TNO, where there really was a very concrete problem here, Mr Van Weyenberg will deal with it in a moment. We have found a solution. There we saw very practically that there could be a problem in public-private cooperation. That's the one. Then a second answer. My expectation is that it will be very little that information will have to be shared, but we do want to be in line with what is internationally common, and also internationally, you do not see that public-private cooperation is being made impossible, and yet we have the possibility, as we amend this law, to disclose information in specific cases where there is a greater interest, public health, land-use planning, the environment. Because if we don't do that now and accept the VVD amendment, that route will be closed. Even in situations where we would think that information should be made public, that is no longer possible. I'd be very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u30	The concern expressed here is, of course, that it is particularly true of small businesses. Of course, they have much more limited means of objecting to the disclosure of such business manufacturing data. By making it absolutely clear again, the conversation with that company can always be held when we think it should be made public. At least it will be those companies, the companies that will otherwise make the retreating movement that we all do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mr Snoeren now takes the view that a small company wishes to object. Then it's already escalated. That is precisely the design of the law, as we have looked at implementation in this law on all aspects, including contact officers for people asking for information, how it should be implemented. There will always be consultations. Of course, a government will not simply share information and certainly not if it is confidential. That consultation is already a practice. In my view, this is only being strengthened, especially by our law: pay attention, should we make agreements on this? Only when it is escalated, if the government has finally made a balance of interest and really believes that information should be released, then of course the process to court is open to the specific company. So on all sides, both in implementation and in legal protection, including of companies, we think we have made the right legislation. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting close to the end. Let's get back to the decision-making mines. A number of questions have been asked. Mrs Buitenweg mentioned the legacy, that the decision-makers are all so long and that journalists do not want that information. Mr Van der Molen has also asked questions about it. It is, and that is extremely annoying. Here too, the political conclusion is that four years ago there was no majority in favour of cutting down the mines themselves. What we have done is to reduce the extension, the delay of four weeks, to two weeks, but there was no further support for shortening that further. But there is another implementation practice here. You often see that requests for information, whether from journalists, scientists or others, are really very extensive. It is almost impossible for a government to meet the information demand within the legal deadlines. This has to do with the size, but also with the fact that the information system of the government itself is not in order. Mr Van der Molen's suggestion that there should be an amendment to propose some kind of conciliation and also to lay down the law is very appealing to us. Make sure that the law also lays down that there is a mediation between the information questioner and the government agency that proposes mediation. So we would like to embrace that amendment, albeit our legislative experts and lawyers have some doubts as to whether the amendment as it has been designed is exactly the right place. If, therefore, there is any possibility of further consultation in order to put Mr van der Molen's amendment in the right place, then we are very much in favour of it, because that may indeed mean that there is more agreement on the question of information, the need for information, and the information that can be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u32	It's fine to have further contact with them. After the first period, I have also seen the reactions of others at the site and whether it is not already the result of the law. But it is good to draw a line there, because in practice these are the discussions between the person asking for information and the person providing information. Then we think "it solves itself in practice," but it doesn't seem to be. If we need to be in touch about that, I think that's fine. Then we can make sure that the amendment is just right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u33	We were in favour of the amendment. So if there was any doubt about that: we are in favour of the amendment. But let's take a look at the law technique. Mr. Chairman. Then very briefly the questions of Mrs Buitenweg and the common regulations. That can be very short. We've been going on for eight, nine years. We have carefully checked every corner of the legislation. We checked, then checked again, double check, feasibility, affordability, and this was an omission. We just didn't think about that, didn't think about it. So: fine amendment. As far as we are concerned, the common rules should also be covered by the Open Government Act. It was mine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u34	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank Members for their questions. It is always a great honour to be able to defend your own initiative laws here in box K. I was allowed to do that with my colleague, Mr Voortman, at the first Open Government Act, and I would like to remind you of that, who is now alderman in Utrecht on behalf of all of us, at least the inhabitants of Utrecht. And now I'm happy to do it with colleague Bart Snels. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all Members for their first-term questions. I also congratulate Mr Snoeren on his beautiful maiden speech. I hope that he will have the strength of his previous life, if I may call it that, or his pre-previous life, I should actually say that he can also use it to publicize public administration. I would welcome that! I do have five blocks, Mr President, I know you like cubes: the culture change, the active disclosure, the multiannual plan and the information register, the advisory board and the information commissioner. Finally, I have two other points, also referred to as 'the Sneller block'. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuik and Mr Bosma have followed two opposite lines on the subject of cultural change. Mrs Kuik said: in the end, apart from all laws, cultural change is perhaps the most important thing. Mr Bosma just said: how do we prevent cultural change from becoming a kind of container concept for administrative powerlessness in the sense of 'we do not know, so we hope that people will behave differently'? I think they're both right. Why is that? Because there's always tension. On the one hand, there may be some kind of strategic restraint. That is where cultural change is really needed. You can, of course, guarantee by law the rules that there will be more active disclosure. This also supports the change in culture under the legislation. The second is that sometimes it is also very complicated to have your information management in order. That is also where the information system is lacking. The report by the parliamentary interrogation committee, the Van Dam committee, also shows that this is painful. That means, on the one hand, that you have to ensure with the law that the information system is improved and, on the other hand, that you support that active disclosure. But if you can do that with support, we are proud that the Cabinet, as well as the Union of Water Councils, the VNG and the IPO in this eight-year road support the approach of this law, then I think that is a great gain, which is not to be underestimated. In fact, I believe that we have used an administrative unique method of tripartite dialogue as initiators of the Chamber with the Minister and the representatives of the local authorities. I do not know if this has happened before, but at least it was a pleasure, certainly because the outcome was very positive as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. So it's that search for the right balance that makes you tighten things up with the law and, at the same time, have more support for it. That's the profit of the past few years, too, in order to change it. That's how you get that culture change and you're gonna support that disclosure. But in the end, it will still, also from this Chamber, require a great deal of perseverance to carry on, regardless of the delusion of the day, often very tough matter. I will say a few words about this at the end of my speech. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Molen asked: if you change culture, how do you deal with personal policy ideas? He has also tabled an amendment to that effect. He asks: do you not really think that all content should simply become public and should actually be anonymized only so that we no longer know who says it and that it cannot be traced back to those who give the advice, whether it is an alderman or a ruler? The initiators very much agree with Mr Van der Molen in the sense that too often and wrongly too little use is being made of the Wob's ability, because the Wob offers all the space to simply anonymize.... there are also cities that do so.... so that you do not know where the advice comes from, but that is not used as some sort of excuse to paint whole pieces of content away. I think that is the inconvenience Mr Van der Molen is referring to. In that sense, you could say that the amendment he is tabling and that I am judging the Chamber, if I may say so as initiator, supports the reading that the initiators and many lawyers have: it is never meant to cover whole pages with the personal policy concept in hand but whole paragraphs. Only he takes the escape route out of the law by making it more explicit. So we wholeheartedly support that. Then Mr. Snoeren. Here too you actually saw two different approach routes, just like with the culture. He asked: but what does that mean for the freedom of civil servants? Are there any worries? In particular, he mentioned the concern of the CNV about this. As if everything would automatically become public after five years; the CNV reads the bill. That misunderstanding may have been brought to the world by the advice of ABDTOPConsult, but that is really not a good explanation of the law as far as we are concerned. We have, however, always got to look at ourselves; that is better to formulate the law more explicitly in order to remove that misunderstanding and to avoid any kind of unbiased disclosure after five years. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the second block: the active disclosure. That is the block of 'Van der Molen', I say to Mr Van der Molen. He said about making decisions public: did the initiators consider removing the decisions at all from the list of actively disclosed documents? That would be a real shame to us. I'll explain why. 25 years ago, the Council of State ruled that decisions are in principle public. These may be decisions that are very relevant, including for the purpose of this law. Think of decisions on subsidies for certain institutions or on the physical domain, for example building things. Then what is in that decision is also relevant to others. We therefore consider it important that large categories of decisions are public. However, there are also large categories of decisions which do not lend themselves to active disclosure. That is why we added that list, which Mr Van der Molen was just talking about in an interruption to Mr Snels. These have been highlighted extensively in the execution test and included by us in the list of exceptions. But if we remove all the decisions from the list of actively disclosed documents, we would really throw away the child with the bath water. We really believe that, with how we have designed it now, we have ensured that it is feasible. This has been confirmed not only by the Minister, but also by the local authorities. Mr Van der Molen just said: how do you actually deal with changes in time? Isn't a list like that static? And what's the starting point when there are new cases? The starting point is that decisions are in principle public. But of course there are also generic exceptions, for example in the area of privacy, which even if there are new grounds for decision or new proposals, I cannot think of such a one-two-three thing as a generic effect. If you would like to exclude something very specific that is not covered by those generic provisions, you could, if necessary, provide an explicit legal guarantee. But I can't imagine one-two-three of what it would be about. If Mr Van der Molen has an idea, I am open to it, but I think they are already in principle public. The fear that we are making a static law that cannot stand the test of time is, as far as I am concerned, not at issue. In this context, Mr Van der Molen also said: that active openness is beautiful, but if it cannot be found by the citizen, you have actually won very little with it. Thank you for that, because, as far as I am concerned, that is a fantastic little bridge to the third block: the multiannual plan and the register. Our original legislative proposal did not contain a multiannual plan, but an information register. We have repealed that in the Amending Law. I think that was the biggest change we have made. Indeed, a billion-dollar account came from the credit transfer, occasional and structural. Quite apart from the fact that we have a lot to say about this, there was also a great deal of concern that this would lead to some sort of gigantic ICT assignment that the government is simply not ready for. The painful observation was that the current delays, also in relation to the current Archive Act and the current archiving, are so great that this was a matter of going from the Stone Age to warp speed at once. The government couldn't handle that. After many discussions and a long period of hesitation, we have gone along with this and there will be a multiannual plan and a consultative college. I come to that so much more precisely that our original amending law would have been temporary. That raised the next question. Aren't we going to demand with our new bill that that register be established? Or are there always two flavors in the contribution of the Chamber "does this not lead to the purpose of this law, namely that information is available and findable, actually disappears behind the horizon by your amending law?" We have listened carefully to that. We have listened both to the contributions of colleagues in the first term and to the heart's cry on this point. That is how I personally experienced it in addition to all kinds of other points in the Van Dam Committee's report, as I say to Mr Van Raak. We have tried to do this on two points. Firstly, by making explicit that the multiannual plan must be concrete, with very precise objectives. What should be recorded? How is it manufactured, ordered, stored, destroyed and unlocked, so that the ultimate goal is much more firmly anchored in the law and the multiannual plan can actually have teeth and impact with it, what do I say? The second thing we've done is this. If you make it actively public, Mr Van der Molen was right to ask the question: how do you feel? You haven't been helped with some kind of patchwork where everyone does things differently. So that is the second change in the present letter of amendment................................................................................................................................................................ Finally, as far as I am concerned, of course, the dot remains on the horizon that you hope that you can extend this to much more information. But with this we think to make the objectives of our amending law much more concrete and specific and we try to do justice to your legitimate concern and the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u36	This is, of course, a continuous line in the discussion we have had: the point of the register. I have to say that yesterday, at the beginning of the afternoon, we received a considerable set of changes to the law. I'm just saying, because as Members of Parliament, we can do something about it. When we get it from cabinet members, we often say a few things. I read it early in the morning on Twitter, and I saw it earlier at Nieuwsuur than I had the pieces in my mailbox. Mr Van Raak often says something about this in the direction of the cabinet, but apparently we Members of Parliament can also do something about it. I couldn't help but think about it. I will not apologize, but I can see that they are being offered with a small smile. However, I would like to ask you a few questions: in the adjustments now it looks like it is written in so many words that you should at least have put things out there again. That's actually the register, too. There is something to say for a central site, because my criticism in the first term was: you can no longer see the forest through the trees. It's simple, and that's what that report says. I believe that the Council of State and others have also said: the Chamber cannot discover some things, because there is so much information. Do I understand that the central point that the Minister will have to set up in the near future is actually a national register? Is that right? Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u37	Maybe a few answers. First of all, touché on your first point. I think it was delivered by us about the same time, but you are absolutely right, you should always read things in Parlis at first, I say to Mr Van der Molen. We always call upon the rulers to do so. So that's right. I am very pleased with what Mr Van der Molen did in the first term. I would like to explain that. In the treatment of the original Open Government Act, Mr Van der Molen's party was one of the great critics on this point. Also in the period after that, this party constantly asked to limit it, to make it more affordable and less expensive. I was very pleased that Mr Van der Molen, when he first spoke to me about this law, chose a slightly different route. He said, "Beware, affordability is beautiful and practicability is beautiful, but make sure you don't lose sight of the goal." I really thought that was an incentive to look again; thank you for that. The Van Dam Committee's report was absolutely the same. Only, there's a difference between the register and what we're doing now. In the end, we still want a register, but I think that also applies to Mr Van der Molen. The dot on the horizon has never changed for me. I know that this also applies to Mr Snels. I know that this also applied to many administrative bodies. They said, "Only we can't do it now. It's gonna be a tragedy. It may cost hundreds of millions of euros. You're going too fast." For the information to be actively disclosed, it is already being unlocked, that must be actively public and we do so staged in the legislative proposal in one place, centrally, accessible information that is easily found, via one system. You, as well as a number of other Members, asked for attention to be paid to a kind of fragmentation, so that people, in your words, no longer see the forest through the trees. I'm reluctant to say "it's the register," because then maybe I'll put on a little too big pants. For the documents to be made public, it is indeed the purpose of the register: available and findable. I hope, of course, that if we do that right, those information systems are organized in this way. You want information systems where this goes well in front, when you make the documents, so you automatically know how to find a document later, what it can become public and whether it needs to become actively public. We need to be able to develop this system to other sources of information, including in the future. In this letter of amendment we take a step back to part of the register for the actively disclosed documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u38	You always have an image of the questions you ask and they weren't meant to help you, but rather to be critical. That's what I said. You can get a register out of the law, but that does not mean that in practice something like a register is not simply needed to do this work properly. You can say you got it out of the law, but the job remains with municipalities and others. They will have to organise something for it, but because we have not put it into the law, we do not have to enter into this difficult discussion about costs. That was the smart question, I thought. Returning to the letter of amendment. You say we'll have a rural facility for that later. It doesn't come out of the sky for free. The actions to be carried out at the decentralised level to make data available do not fall out of the sky either. I do not see any further explanation in this document. What should it cost and what is the impact? This is only there since yesterday. At the beginning of the afternoon it was in the mailbox of the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u39	First of all, of course, I am deeply disappointed, because in Mr Van der Molen I thought I had found a new ally for public access. You're right, this is an addition. But the Van Dam Committee's report... I know that your party, too, always rightly calls for a great deal of attention to be paid to openness. Especially since this very painful dossier shows that we need to do something here. We believe that this active openness can be achieved. We have been in contact with the Minister on this, because agreements had been made. I didn't get a single countersignal. In fact, I'm getting the feeling that we really need to take steps. I think we're doing it now for active disclosure. We have something here that makes the law absolutely still enforceable. Trying to limit this when it turns out it's possible, I'd think it's a damn shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u41	I'm just taking a quick look. I've said a lot. In the end, this register creates the active disclosure of documents. That brings me to Mrs Kuik's question. She asked about the long-term possibilities. In fact, we have made part of the long-term short-term with the actively publicising documents. That will, of course, never be the end point for us. There is also fear of cold water among many colleagues, perhaps even Mr Van der Molen. I hope that the experience we gain from this can show that the practice here is more possible. But we're doing it more staged than we originally planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u42	It may not be a specific answer to the question. But in response to the report (Unknown injustice) I have thought on many sides. On the one hand, you have to avoid getting ahead in putting up something that no one has ever wanted and which creates so much administrative burden that it creates an opposite effect. That's the way it's done all the time. Nor do I want to be a civil servant myself, which no one wants to communicate on paper because it is easier to deal with all kinds of things orally, as is often the case now. See the Catshouse sessions. I don't mean that cynical or cranky. It's a bit of a search, too. Yeah, you gotta take care of things in the short term, not just in the long term. My general thinking in the last few weeks was: how do we do the right thing with this bill? But also: how do we ensure that we learn along the way, both in the event that it does not work, and in the event that it has a negative effect, an effect that we did not mean? I'm sorry for my long run, Mr. Chairman, but I'm just gonna give you a little jigsaw puzzle. That.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u43	I like that reflection. I recognize them, too. That is why I think that the support we have gained from the governments, from the administration, is really worth something. I was also very pleased with the enthusiastic words of the Open State Foundation and the journalists about the letter of amendment. But the fact that the governing bodies are now participating in this movement is a real gain to me, because in the previous legal process they were still in opposition to both the government and the local authorities. And then you want to keep learning. I think we have three things for that. We're really starting out with those actively publicizing documents. There's a system. I'm really sure that's possible. The minister thinks it's feasible. The Minister must, above all, explain this in more detail himself. That's one. Two: we have that college, which we're making permanent now. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. This also advises on how we can move forward and how we can develop it. As far as I am concerned, it is a permanent driver: it indicates what works and what can be done now, or precisely what does not work and what needs to be changed. With that college, we have added an independent third, which can help us to hunt, to fulfil that ombud function for journalists or scientists, for example, but also to keep the minister and the local authorities sharp that the momentum is maintained and to reflect critically when things go wrong. Finally, in the letter of amendment, we have made demands on the multiannual plan: it must now also be kept under constant review as to how it works in practice, for example when it comes to opening up. Then you can address those problems, too. I hope, moreover, that, when the multiannual plan is discussed in the Chamber in the coming years, we will continue to pay attention to it separately from horrific affairs. It's gonna be tough matter. We've seen that, if you don't have tough matter in order, you have massive damage in sometimes very painful situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u44	As a Chamber, we are extremely miserable in evaluating and reflecting on legislative proposals that we have adopted ourselves. That teaches us, too. I mean, multi-annual plans are beautiful, but how do we anchor that it is an obligation to actually do so actively? That is the task we have: the notions we lay down here with each other and the best intentions must be some sort of automation and come back. Then we won't get away with something that's just obligated on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u45	It's also in the law now what's in that plan. I think that's a win. Furthermore, I almost have the impression that I have already accidentally e-mailed you a concept of my conclusion, because keeping attention to this, even later, would otherwise have been my bouncer. That is exactly your point. It is up to the Chamber itself to ensure that. We tried that in the law with the evaluation clause. With the committee which advises the Chamber unsolicited and with a number of legal explications, including what should be in the multiannual plan, we think we have provided the tools that the Chamber can work with and we also need to do so. The cry of hearts, in order not to allow this to fade away, has taken me from the heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u46	I think that's important. I think it is also important to add this bill to the Working Method Committee and other reflection moments that we have as Chambers. It affects the public administration and also the Lower House itself. The question is, how does that work out and work out? We were in favour of this bill, but I also think it is our duty to take it seriously. You can't pass a bill for nine years and then say, "We'll see how it goes." That wasn't your intention either, but I'm gonna call it in for legal treatment and legal history. In this respect, I take it upon myself to allow this to come back in a certain way in our own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u47	Thank you, Mrs Kuiken, for this reflection, which is also critical of ourselves, as there are more critical lessons to be drawn for the Chamber itself, also from the report on which Mrs Kuiken has contributed. But I experience this above all as a huge support in the back, which I very much agree with. Mr. Chairman. This is also a link to the advisory college and to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u48	Before you proceed, Mr Sneller has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u49	Yeah, I still want to get back to that PLOOI, that developed platform. This is now being used for active disclosure, but in the registers in the previous version it was also true that journalists wanted to know, for example, what there were documents that were not yet active in the public domain. This law, too, still contains documents that will be made public on request. Now does Mr Van Weyenberg outline a number of times that there is a further development, but is this legal anchoring, also bearing in mind what Mrs Kuik just said, really in those multi-annual plans? Is there also a guarantee of progress towards the passively disclosed documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u50	Not as explicit as you put it now. What we explicitly legally guarantee is the use of PLOOI in active disclosure. We also ensure that the objectives are broader than those of the documents to be actively made public on a number of points which the multiannual plan should address and which have been formulated generically, and which, as far as I am concerned, also go beyond the documents to be actively disclosed. But I think it is up to the Chamber, but also to the Cabinet and the local authorities, to get past these plans in the coming years, and to ensure that we not only implement that system of active disclosure, which is just in the law, well. That is what the law says, but it would be a shame if we did not use the role of that advisory body to the full, as would the multi-annual plan from the cabinet, to take further steps where possible. So we are not saying now: the register must be established now. That was too fast, with too high an ICT risk and too expensive. But the dot behind the horizon we have tried to embed much more explicitly in the letter of amendment. Eventually, the proof of the pudding is of course whether in the coming years, if these multi-annual plans are here, both the administration and its control, which is, among other things, the Chamber when it comes to national government, the administration continuously keeps it sharp to make maximum progress there. We are starting to do this here, but we can never finish it until the end of today's debate. I think that was part of what Mrs Kuik meant. In the coming years, it will ask a great deal of us to stay very focused on this. Because this kind of tough matter, in very thick plans about complicated things with archival systems, is not always the focus of the daily work of MPs. I say that with some heart pain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u51	I also think it was a very justified appeal, but I am also looking for what the proposers mean. It says here: later on, the governing bodies can also make other documents public by this means, that is to say, the This is seen in broader categories than only the actively disclosed documents. We must therefore stick to it ourselves, but it is the intention of the proposers that this should eventually include the passive documents to be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u52	Yes. And it says here 'can', because we think that this offers an incredibly nice platform to build out. However, we have not yet been able to put that into the law legally, because that would be too great a quantum leap. But I should have been shorter; the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u53	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u54	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u55	We cannot put it in the law, but I had suggested, for example, in my term for those registers, that it should be in the law at some point, to anchor that obligation, and that you could then, as it were, make a reverse horizon clause, so that it will enter into force when the registers or the infrastructure, the ICT, are ready. But that is not what the proposers choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u56	No, we already had a reverse horizon clause around the information commissioners, and it amended the Chamber four or five years ago. So we didn't have a very good experience with that. We have now just explicitly written down what needs to be done. We believe that the multi-annual plan and the legal definition of what should be in it and the advisory college that mandates maximum support and push when it comes to disclosure will help us. But you're absolutely right that it would be nice if it turned out that it could and we're just going to do it, whether you need a legal basis for that or not. The goal is still absolutely clear. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Sneller asked about the advisory board and the information commissioner. Look, in the legislative proposal as it was then, the advisory board had a consultative role in supporting the information economy. Is it okay? Are the steps taken in the multiannual plan sufficient? That's what I'd recommend. This requires, of course, that there are different expertises in the advisory board. The Minister has already announced a temporary commission prior to the entry into force of the Open Government Act. Mrs Van Gent has the role of chairman in this. I have heard the question in the Chamber as to whether someone from journalism can get a place in that too. I think that question lies more with the Minister, but you will understand that we would find that a very good addition. So the committee had to advise. In the letter of amendment, we have actually taken a step forward. A number of tasks of the original Information Commissioner have actually been reflected in the letter of amendment. If you take the articles of the law, you will literally find them: "advise the government and both Chambers requested and unsolicited about the implementation of the rules on disclosure." That is one of the hooks that the Chamber can use over the next few years to ensure the progress that Mr Sneller and Mr Kuik rightly emphasized. The Advisory College advises on proposals of law and drafts of AMvBs relating to disclosure and disclosure. It also advises on complaints. I would like to say something specific about that. It also promotes the application of the law, including through information and training, but also by monitoring whether it goes into practice as we had intended. That is a right point for which in practice the attention of the Chamber is not nearly as great as it is when a law is drawn up. Specifically, I would like to say one thing about what I call the ombud function. We had it with the intelligence commissioner, but he was killed. We were sorry to hear that, but I also heard your contribution in the first term and saw the report produced by the Van Dam Committee. This is of course also about the information traffic between Cabinet and Chamber, and that is not what this Open Government Act is primarily about, because the Wob and hopefully the Woo will be the lower limit for informing the Chamber. And it's about how to make sure that information is also available to journalists and scientists. They have to go somewhere. Mr Snels has just been asked whether such an opinion is binding. That intelligence commissioner wasn't binding either. In our Dutch legal system, it is always the judge who judges, but we hope, of course, that the advisory board, which we make permanent, which is also an amendment from the letter of amendment, has so much authority that it alone leads to things moving and that there will be acceleration. It would be fantastic if, in the coming years, this College would also have an authority like that of the Ombudsman. If one does not get out and go to court, it could be that the judge attaches great importance to the advisory board. We are truly convinced that this is a significant step forward. I was also pleased with the support that was expressed for it by the organisations and professionals for whom we are doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u57	About who exactly goes to this advisory college. It has just been said that citizens are going to the Ombudsman. I'm sure it's gonna stay that way. But can journalists also contact the Ombudsman? They can go to court, too. Will there be three agencies where journalists can go? What is the relationship between the Ombudsman and this advisory body in the new proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u58	In practice, I think that still needs to grow a little bit. I do not think that the road to the Ombudsman is being closed for anyone. In this sense, there is something more to it, but of course a specific college specialising in it. I think that really helps. I also hope and expect that this will soon build up the authority to have a real impact on this domain, if it were to come to court, which of course you want as little as possible. With Mrs Van Gent I have every confidence in that. We have mentioned a number of groups. This is actually more up to the Minister. As with the Commissioner for Information, we have written down the legal roles, but, of course, the colleague must be able to do that work in a moment. If I were Mrs Van Gent or other Members, I would demand the same. Because if you do, you want to be able to live up to it. And we're adding a lot. In the coming months, at least if the Woo comes through both chambers, it is really important that it is made concrete. I can very well imagine that the Chamber will soon want to hear from the Minister how it takes shape and that the Chamber will want to be informed about resources, precise job definition and objectives, just more precisely than the legal basis in the Woo. Of course, this will have to be followed by an impact. Among other things, it deals with the questions that Mrs Buitenweg asks. It could be about deadlines. Furthermore, the rules of the Framework Act apply to advisory colleges, but there will probably be many more precise things. As initiator, of course, I am also very curious as to how much budget will be forthcoming. What do the members say they need? Because with the current humanization and support, you can't just do all those extra tasks. So that's right. I hope that the cabinet will ensure that the funds that have yet to come up with this law, as Mr Snels said, are made available quickly, because talk does not fill any gaps here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u59	Excuse the unusual dualism, Mr. Chairman. The letter of amendment also states that that college therefore advises on the complaints, but that goes to the administrative body concerned. My question is what the status of the opinion is. Mr Van Weyenberg has just indicated its specific importance. But is this a public opinion? Is this something that is published on the website? Because for a journalist it is also a relevant fact that the colleague/competitor journalist does not know what he is doing, for example. At the same time, in order to comply with this type of advice, it is important that it may also be public, so that weird eyes can look along.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u60	That's where I agree, I think. But this is something that I think needs to be operationalized. I think it's gonna be a while to look for the best design, but I get this very well. In the end, such a procedure must be carried out by the administrative authority. That cannot be said to the college: thank you, but we really don't feel like talking to you at all. That procedure is really enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u61	There are a number of things about that college that is also logical............................................................................................................................................................................................................ At the same time, I am missing a delegation base, as we sometimes have in laws, which gives the power plus the mandate to the Minister to lay down such rules, leaving it not only to the advisory body to settle them. How does the author view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u62	I understand that question very well. You can do it in different ways. A number of rules have already been secured by the Framework Act. I'd like to chew on that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u63	The ministers say that they will come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u64	Yeah, but I don't know that either. I'm also trying to learn standing up, Mr. Chairman. So I will certainly come back to this in the second term, and I find the fact that Mr Sneller is looking for a very interesting idea. So I wanted to go a little further than just slide through the procedure. As a Member of Parliament, I always hate that. I see Mr Snoeren standing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u65	Yeah, me too. Mr. Snoeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u66	We're talking about the advisory board now. It is a far-reaching change compared to what was in the letter of amendment. Mr Van der Molen mentioned that it is quite short a day to let this really settle. We also, of course, lack the advice of a Council of State on this issue. I have a rather profound question. I hope that the President will allow me to have some technical questions from time to time. After all, I want to be able to consider how we should deal with this later on. One of the tasks is indeed this mediation. A list is given of journalists and scientists and other persons or companies to be identified by the Advisory Board. At least it has to be professional. Can you explain to me a little bit more what I should imagine in that regard? Can a company go there? Can a college go there? I'm just trying to tell you what that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u67	Let me give you an example of what it isn't. Not meant is a journalist who uses it because he's arguing with the government over his balcony. It is intended for the situation in which journalists say: we do not get through to municipality X or ministry Y continuously or at the moment. They can check in. In any case, we have explicitly mentioned the group of journalists. We have also mentioned scientists. I can also imagine NGOs. We need to work this out. Of course, we have the Ombudsman for those affected individually. Are we gonna bring the entire intelligence commissioner back? We have tried to focus on these groups, also bearing in mind the Van Dam Committee's report, which seeks professional information from the government and too often encounters all kinds of obstacles and uncertainties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u68	That is a clear answer in itself. I have another question about the size of the advisory board. Now that the scope of the Wob is increasing many times, that also means that there could be many times more requests. Do the initiators have an idea of how large that is going to be? Can such a consultative body handle all those mediation assignments that might follow from it? How do the initiators intend to further shape this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u69	You can solve that by saying: then perhaps there should be no more members. Each number there is relatively arbitrary. We've got four on our hands now, but I'll give you a better idea. To be precise, it is the chairman and four, I say, gratefully looking at Mrs Buitenweg who corrected me. Four plus one is it indeed to be precise. It's just that it's going to be important how many staff members we're talking about. With just a secretary, I don't think you're gonna make it, with all the appreciation for the hard work of a secretary. In 2013 we had the total information commissioner. That was wider. SEO then made a cost estimate of 5 million. So it'll be somewhere between the current estimate and 5 million. I think the limitation will save us, but this is an important question in the elaboration. As far as I am concerned, that will mean, above all, that we need to work on this. As a Member, I would never wish to take part in such a role in which I assume a responsibility if I do not also have the staff, the resources and the powers to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u70	One last question. Maybe it belongs more to the advisor of the Chamber, the Minister. It's about those resources. What size can we expect? How can we finance that later? Of course, there is also a question about IPO and the VNG. I assume that the Minister will perhaps go into this a little further later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u71	Very briefly. That is a very fair question. Those resources need to be put in place. On Friday, the cabinet will, of course, come up more broadly here, when it comes to the report of the Van Dam Committee. But let's speed up, with this element as well. It is only an element, but as far as I am concerned it is an important element. It may be a little less visible, but it is one of the foundations around this information system, around the advisory board, to do some good. I therefore welcome Mr Snoeren's call for sufficient resources. I hope that is what I am saying to him as a coalition party and that he will use his influence to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u72	In short, in response to this question: does it not depend very much on how much of the information system is standardized? I can also imagine that placing all kinds of information at some point will be much cheaper if the homework is done. Then it can all be a lot more automatic. This may now require an additional investment, which will show a different budget picture in five or ten years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u73	There are two reasons why I hope so. The first reason is next. What we do about active disclosure and access does not come close to the information register in terms of cost, because we choose something where we can standardize. In my view, you also drew attention to this in the first period. If you don't standardize, it's gonna be a mess. That is why we are using the PLOOI instrument in this active disclosure, with apologies for the abbreviation, Mr President. The second reason I hope that is because there is also a lot of profit to be made. If there's active disclosure, you don't have to do any more procedure, because you can just find it. If we succeed in changing culture, I hope that in the long term fewer people will have to report to the complaint procedure, because it will not only be possible to make more active public but also to cooperate more actively. I also expect some of the contact officers introduced by the Open Government Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u74	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u75	I don't see anything about standardisation in the bill itself. What proposals or possibilities are there to ensure that this standardisation is in place, so that local and other authorities know what conditions they need to meet in order to put it in place as best they can?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u76	For the information to be made available actively, I think I might be able to overstep Mrs Buitenweg, because the very system of PLOOI, which we say should be used in the law, is the ultimate form of standardisation. You just have to use that. We also have the college. And in the multi-annual plan, we try to take further steps, building on a standardised system. Then not everyone has to reinvent the wheel. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Sneller also asked for a possible sunrise provision for the Information Commissioner. The evaluation may, for example, show that this college is beautiful, but you must open it up to all citizens. That could be an outcome. We have not been waiting for the sunrise, but we let the sun shine on the letter of amendment, when it comes to a whole series of extra tasks for the college.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u77	I see Mr Van der Molen, but I also have a look...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u78	I have two minutes left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u79	Fine. Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u80	The College can also advise the House of Representatives. With the introduction of this law, the House of Representatives also falls within the scope of the law, Article 2.2. When you talk to colleagues about that, there are a lot of questions. What is and is not covered by it? In some sense, the explanatory statement is somewhat clear on this point. Information which is sent to us as Members of Parliament or which we ourselves have in our own work is not covered by this active disclosure. But there are other situations to think of. We have a confidant, who, at the request of a Member of Parliament, could give advice on whether or not you should take up a side function. I read in the explanatory statement: such a person is in some way employed by the Chamber, is therefore not a member of the political group and is therefore not put in brackets. With this example in mind, also looking in your own house: what is the impact in that respect? For such a colleague can advise a great deal, but there may also be politically complex situations in between. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u81	You're asking a very specific question. I'm really gonna figure that out for the second term, because that's so important that I don't want to do it right now. My feeling is that, with all the exceptions we have, I can take away your concerns about this. But I'm going to find out more precisely, because you deserve a more precise answer. The political company, if a Member of Parliament gets information in that role, we have explicitly excluded. That's what you said, but I think that's important. It's more about the institute and the organization. So it is not the case that the work that Mr Van der Molen does when he has an initiative proposal prepared somewhere, the political and democratic work of Mr Van der Molen, becomes public. But I don't think that's what his question was about either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u82	Then why don't you give... Sorry. Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u83	Exactly. It's right on that intersection between those two things. My question was to look afterwards at the situation in which this applies, in the hope that you will at least have a clear picture of what is and is not covered, perhaps even now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u84	Oh, yeah. I can reassure Mr van der Molen that Article 3.3 (2) (a) excludes confidential persons. You understand that I didn't come up with that myself, so thank you, I say to the people behind me. And it is right that you should ask, because it would indeed be very strange if it had been otherwise. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the other block. Mr Sneller asked about the contact officer. That really is a point of contact. We discussed the complaint function before this. But we hope that it will help, as Mr Snels did just now with Mr Van der Molen's amendment, which also concerned more clarity about a Woo request later, gave judgment to the Chamber. We do not want the ultimate automation of human contact. This is just something you can go to if it turns out that it's not going to be satisfactory somewhere or if you're having trouble finding something. The more you find standardized or in an open system, the better, but this is exactly the helpline, as I call it. That's what it's meant to be. Finally, there was the question about the impact for NPO, DNB and AFM. We've talked to DNB and AFM extensively. There is a three-year transitional period for information that has reached them under the old law, the old regime. Things that come from the ECB are excluded. The ECB also asked for this. We asked them for proper advice, because that's the way it should be. And in the case of the NPO, it is only an administrative body for that part of the tasks in which the public authority is held. Then it is also covered by the Wob. For example, it concerns the coordination of programmes or the allocation of broadcasting time. But journalistic independence is completely secured. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the conclusion. With the letter of amendment we did a small final sprint, but I had to think a little bit about a cycling round in the preparation. It was one with many winding roads, which takes a long time, often uphill, with rain and often a bit of headwind. We, from the Dutch administration and also in the Chamber, did not always like everything. I have the hope that, also because of what we have exchanged, we are now a bit on the last straight line, I say for the cycling enthusiasts among you. That long journey has been partly very frustrating, as Mr Snels said, but it has made the law even better, because we have removed omissions and uncertainties. It has really created a law that is enforceable and affordable. It was also an assignment for the Minister from the coalition agreement to talk to us about this. We, Mr Snels and I, from coalition and opposition, have always liked this cooperation. At the same time, however, there is also real support for the fact that local authorities and the cabinet are now saying: yes, that law is simply enforceable. I also really think that this is a great boost and that there is also an increased feeling that things have to be different, that in a good democracy there really is openness and that there is a lot of late maintenance. We are not the best boy in the class far from this. The Van Dam Committee's report once again makes that painfully clear. But if we now adopt this amending law with broad support, we really are not there yet. If we do not put this into practice and forget the lessons that have been learned quickly in the coming years, and if we do not stay on top of it and do justice to advisory and multi-annual plans, then this often very tough matter will not get the attention it deserves again very soon. I hope we all manage not to. Thank you for your time and for understanding that last minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Then we'll just wait for the switch. Mrs Buitenweg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u86	I wonder whether all the amendments have been pre-advised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u87	There was one in my field, by Mr Van der Molen, about personal policy ideas. That's what I gave Chamber judgment. I have heard Mr Snels on the common arrangements. I have also heard something about the amendment asking: can we get a clearer definition of what the request is? However, I believe that Mr Snels should at least deal with an amendment from you and Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u88	Yes, Mr. Snels, you forgot to discuss an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u89	I'll do it, otherwise the chair will have to be cleaned again. That amendment is a judgment of the Court of Justice, because it does not pay to postpone it. If you wait longer, you should simply include all the information that becomes available on the same subject after submission in the Wob request or in the Woo request later. That is, I think, an incentive to decide quickly, so in that sense we can give the amendment judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment until the office is cleaned for the change and then the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, here as an advisor on behalf of the cabinet, but may I begin by thanking the initiators for their cooperation? Mr Snels just said something about it. Yeah, it's special. There is a passage on it in the coalition agreement, but there are now two initiators, one from the coalition and one from the opposition, and it is in good harmony, I might add, in recent years. This initiative proposal has a long history. In 2012, Ms Peters made the proposal for the Open Government Act for the first time. Later it was adopted and taken over by other MPs, also from D66. Now, in 2021, that's a long time later, we're back here, or still are; it's just how you look at it. At least it has come a long way. You can derive anything from that, but I would like to point out that it says something about the importance that we all attach to the subject of "open government." It is a subject that, I think, has not always been high on the list of priorities, but has at times certainly dealt with the issues. That's how it's gonna be now. I think that is quite right, because openness is a core value of our parliamentary democracy. It is essential for the controllability of the administration. An open government also ensures that there are well-informed citizens who can give substance to active and modern citizenship. I believe that accessible public sector information also offers all kinds of opportunities and suits the country we are. This initiative proposal contributes to an open government. I see an important difference with the Wob. This bill obliges the public authorities to actively disclose certain categories of public sector information. In the first term, Mr Bosma was right to say, I think that the Wob is actually working well in terms of passive public access. "The Wob" and "Wob requests" have become concepts. However, for active disclosure, the Wob has proved insufficient, you might say. Thus, although in general terms the Wob requires administrative bodies to actively disclose public sector information, the current practice is that this is only limited. Another topicality which I cannot leave unnamed, of course, is the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance. It highlights the great importance of an open and transparent government and the improvement that is not only possible in this respect, but also, in my view, necessary. I quote: "Improving the provision of information is essential for the functioning of Parliament, the media and legal protection. Like the protection of the individual, the provision of information is also an important element of the democratic rule of law." By giving both passive and active disclosure a renewed basis, this initiative legislative proposal contributes to that open government. The cabinet is happy to endorse that point of view. If both Chambers of the States-General agree to the bill, then the Cabinet will ratify it. So we have a very positive attitude towards an open government. That does not, of course, alter the fact that we need to look closely and critically at the way in which the legislative proposal is designed. Some of the themes were reviewed in the first round. I am thinking of the feasibility and complexity, the financing and the approach to information management. I shall be passing through these issues so briefly, as well as a number of other questions that have been asked. The first is the feasibility. That has actually been a recurring focus during the whole period we have been talking about, and also over the past few years that I have been able to deal with it. Because it involves a lot of active disclosure of public sector information. It's not just about the Empire, it's also about the local authorities. In other words, we are talking about billions of documents, which also came from the quickscan, which has just been mentioned, at similar costs. And a part such as what was then the obligation to register also encountered the necessary implementation problems. That was where we left in 2017. The current proposal has been significantly improved in terms of feasibility and cost, for example by an intervention if it no longer needs to actively publish all individual decisions. Take an implementation organisation such as the RVO, the Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland. It produces thousands of decisions; standard documents. I often don't think about the type of documents we all think about when we think about that open government. It is perhaps the vast majority of what is produced by public authorities. This legislative proposal provides for an alternative provision for active disclosure of large numbers of complaints or decisions. These can also be published in an overview. I think that's a big improvement. A large number of documents are also excluded from active disclosure. Think of DUO decisions for individual students or individual students. Or a D.A.'s office. That may also make sense, but we have had to go through that with each other, so that we can get on with it. We must try to keep an eye on each other that you do not make it so finely, with such a long list of exceptions, that you will lose your way again. I think I did. In the first term was asked, among others by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Snoeren, whether we are not creating an unworkable situation. Isn't it getting too complex? Wouldn't it have been easier, for example, to exclude all decisions? I thought Mr Van der Molen had that in his first term. I think that would have been a route. That might have been easier, but I can understand why it wasn't chosen. There are also many decisions that contain relevant information for citizens, businesses, journalists and scientists. Think of decisions on subsidies. After all, they are about spending public money. Then it is good that it is completely transparent to which organisations are awarded subsidies for which activities and what the level of them is. Moreover, we have of course also had execution tests. They show that the bill is enforceable in this form. It's fine-meshed, but it's executable. The proposers have anticipated the fact that it will take time to make everything we agree on public. It can't be realized overnight. The entry into force of the proposal also gives us the possibility of phasing out. This means that we can work towards the level of active disclosure required by law. Mrs Buitenweg asked: how long do the departments need to meet all these obligations? We now have it is an educated guess that we need about four years in total for the ministries and the implementation organisation there. This is based on the multiannual plan to improve the information system of the government that is now in place. Then all that information will be public. Mr Van der Molen then asked: what do we do with it, is there still some kind of duty of care for the proper disclosure of that information? That's an understandable question. Again, we produce a lot of information and the risk is that you get lost in it instead of getting much wiser. Active disclosure is only worth something if it is accompanied by the duty of care to unlock that information. The instrument that can help us with this has already been mentioned by Mr Snels: PLOOI: the Platform Open Public Sector Information. It has been developed by BZK and I am pleased that the initiators, with their letter of amendment, introduce an obligation for all government organisations to join PLOOI, so that active disclosure is central and a referral index is created that users, interested parties, journalists and, no doubt, MPs can use. The platform will be able to go live and function early next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u92	How far along are you with your advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'm in my first block of three. At the end I have some other points and the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u94	There is also a second deadline, but I appeal to the Minister to be brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u95	I would do myself a great favor with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u96	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u97	I totally agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr Van der Molen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u99	This is, of course, a new point introduced with the adaptation. The Minister now pretends that this is quite easy to achieve without problems. I'd almost say, why wasn't it thought up sooner? What needs to be done to get this done? What are the costs involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u100	Fortunately, it has been conceived and realized before. Actually, it's already in embryonic state. I am assured that this can be properly linked. It will then be greater than perhaps was thought at the time this was started. It can be very good. We can join in a previous initiative, and that is a very bad thing. With that reference index you actually also have a form of registration. Mr Van der Molen also asked about this. We don't have to start something new right now, we can join in on an ongoing initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u102	It is also linked to the document management system of departments. The registration reference can then be automated. It still takes time, but it is not something that needs to be developed from scratch. The umbrella of the co-governments are also positive about this initiative. Some of them are cooperating in the pilot phase. Sounds like a good route to me. Mr. Chairman. On this subject there are two more questions from Mrs Buitenweg that I have not yet discussed. The first was: what about the Oosenbrug/Bruins movement? This motion was adopted in the examination of the earlier version of the Woo. The Cabinet is asked to ensure that two or more administrative bodies start experimenting within one year of the adoption of the Open Government Act. I think that this motion as such is no longer on the agenda now that the register has been removed from the legislative proposal. Something is happening in place, so that some of the objectives behind the register are retained. Through PLOOI and its reference index, we can ensure that some kind of similar facility is created as previously envisaged by the register. In addition, Mrs Buitenweg asked for more information on the implementation of the Sjoerdsma motion on the provision of active information on the functioning of the Open Government Act. I am giving effect to that motion by holding regular consultations with the domes of fellow governments. The domes will also provide training on the Woo for their supporters. We work closely together on that. Within the government, this has been taken up by, among other things, the Rijksprogramma Duurzaam Digitale Informatiebeheer, which also provides information about active national disclosure. Mr President, I shall now turn to the second part. That is about funding and co-governments, because that has of course often been the subject of debate. A critical assessment has always been made: how does the commitment to greater transparency work out on costs and is this somewhat balanced? At first, it was such a high cost that you almost had to say that that balance is negative. But where we first talked about 1 billion, thanks to the adjustments we are now at 48 million structural and 60 million occasional for the Empire, and 51 million structural and 140 million occasional for the co-governments. That is, of course, still substantial money and I understand that questions have been asked about it. Mr Snoeren of the VVD asked: is this the right time to do something like this? There are always acute problems there we know today with corona everything about..... but the open government is of course a very important and very fundamental point. Now that we have come this far and can conclude it, I think that we must ensure that we also provide the extra money that is needed for this. I'll get to that in a minute. I told you, we're gonna have time. That should also apply to the co-governments. This is necessary because of the implementation and implementation, but also because of the costs. We may still achieve economies of scale in the process by looking at which parts of the legislative proposal we can jointly pick up and implement together. Is there money for it? Mr Van der Molen, who has just left, asked me if the cabinet has reserved funds. The cabinet realizes that the adoption of this bill results in costs. The financial consequences of the bill, as we agreed in the cabinet, will be discussed at the next full decision-making session on the budget. So that's this year's spring note. Mrs Kuik asked for specific attention to be paid to the costs of the co-governments; moreover, a number of other members did so. The Chamber has received a letter from the domes of the fellow governments. It calls for further clarity in the area of compensation for them for the implementation of the legislative proposal. I would like to make it quite clear here that, in the case of government policies which lead to changes in the tasks of co-governments, Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act states the financial implications for provinces and municipalities and the way in which these financial consequences for provinces and municipalities will be met. That principle now applies. That is what I shall be talking to them about. I cannot anticipate the final decision-making now, but that is the starting point and they can count on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u103	Of course, local authorities have very different experiences with this, in all honesty. The start of discussions on what costs are and what should then be reimbursed is agreement on what costs are related to them. I asked the Minister if she had already agreed, because that is what it starts with with the parties who approach us about what the costs we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u104	Yes, I think the Chamber is fully informed about the financial implications as we now foresee, both central and decentralised, so for the Empire and the co-governments. I have just mentioned the amounts: 51 million in structural terms and 140 million in exceptional cases for the co-governments. We will always remain on this subject, and this also applies to other subjects, such as the discussion of this kind of financial implications with the co-governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u105	So for the sake of understanding, is the Minister currently in agreement with the domes on the amounts, which will be more sophisticated than the amounts on the main lines mentioned by the Minister? Otherwise, it's going to be a well-naïve discussion at the time you're talking about money. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u106	Yeah, you heard right. I have, of course, often talked to the domes about this and they know these amounts. But it also always applies that when the performance shows that it's all just a little bit more or less, you have to keep talking to each other. They are also aware of the fact that this should be dealt with in the spring note. Mr. Chairman. The third theme is information management. It is not sufficiently in order. We knew that. It was also recently noted by the Council of State in its opinion on ministerial responsibility. The cabinet confirmed that in the further report. The report of the parliamentary interrogation committee also made that clear. I would also like to quote the Council of State on this point, namely that bringing up and selecting relevant information takes time, money and human power. So it's just asking for a big investment. We must, I think, give priority to it all in order to really get that information system in order. The multi-annual government plan and the advisory body for publicity and information management contained in the proposal are therefore important steps which are essential for the proper provision of information. We have already started departmental programs for this. Think of the National Programme Sustainable Digital Information Management, which is working through the multiannual plan set out in the Woo to improve information management within the Empire. In this context, both Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Kuik indicated in their first term that they do not think this plan is sufficiently concrete. They may want a little clearer targets for the short, medium and long term. I offered this plan in its first version in 2019. The actions included in the plan are related to reports of what was then called the Heritage Inspection. That's now the State Information and Heritage Inspectorate. The actions are focused on what they at the time called "the availability of digital information," i.e. the preservation of digital documents, which did not even happen at the time. The plan also anticipated the consequences of the amendment of the Archive Act and this initiative proposal. Then a second version of that plan went to the Chamber. This was sent to the Chamber by colleague Knops in May last year as part of the Strategic I Agenda Rijksdienst. It builds on elements of the plan. But I simply agree with Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Kuiken, when they say that there is still an improvement to be made. In the second letter of amendment that has now been submitted, the implementation of the multi-annual plans has been increased by the long-term objective of improving the digital information economy. It is also about the necessary concrete steps in the short term. I think that we have come more in the direction of what Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Kuik referred to. So much remains to be done. We have taken steps in this and we must continue to do so. The bill provides for a government-wide multi-annual plan to be presented to the Chamber, i.e. a plan for the Empire and co-governments together. We are committed to ensuring that this plan is ready by the end of this year. We work according to the adadium "openness by design." We are also working on a number of other issues, such as the amendment of the Archive Act, the early transfer to the Archive Service and so on. But we have a dot on the horizon and we are also taking concrete steps. It's just been going on about the register for a while. I would like to make a brief reference to what I just said about PLOOI. On this point, the advisory board. The temporary advisory college, which was originally planned, has now been adapted to a permanent advisory college with a different name. It will now be the advisory college for publicity and information management. I think this is a good step. The cabinet is positive about these changes, because this external advisory body can really help to push in the right direction. Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Sneller asked me whether I felt like adding a journalistic representative to the advisory board. That was also put forward by the Dutch Association of Journalists. I can actually very well imagine someone from the media sector, the journalistic sector, taking part in the advisory board. The members are appointed by the government, on a proposal from me together with the Minister OCW. I will, with your permission, consult with the chairman of the future college, Mrs Van Gent, and I will look at her and see that it is good to have different types of expertise in it. I assume that this could lead to this wish being met. Mrs Buitenweg asked me how I'm going to equip the advisory board and how it can get started as soon as possible. Funds are reserved for the college. A secretary has been appointed. I will also talk to the President about this. I can imagine that the adoption of the Amending Law is a good time to start, and I will therefore ensure that adequate equipment is provided. Finally, the last question on this part. Mr Sneller asked whether a register obligation would not be reasonable once the information system was in order. I would nevertheless like to refer to PLOOI, to the fact that, as a reference index, this is actually going to work very well and perhaps better than the register. So I refer Mr Sneller to the answer I just gave to Mr Van der Molen's question. Then there's the Information Commissioner. Questions were asked about that, too. Now that this advisory board is becoming permanent, I think that setting up an information commissioner is less obvious. There are a number of other points. The theme of personal policy concepts is not insignificant. Mr Sneller asked me, I thought, to give some sort of reflection on the subject. Mr Van der Molen has tabled an amendment to that effect. Mr Snoeren also asked for attention to be given to the subject, but that went a bit the other way. De Woo already has relevant changes to this whole issue of personal policy concepts. For example, policy alternatives and their consequences are now simply made public under the Woo. This follows from adding to the Woo a definition of what is or is not a personal policy concept. I think that'll help. That's good. I really want to appreciate that positively. The cabinet has often said that there is a balance. You want to be open and transparent about the way in which policy and governance is created. This is important for democracy. I think that a widely heard criticism of the Wob is the extent to which this exception to the personal policy concept has been invoked. Mrs. Kuik called that the paint culture. She also said: shouldn't all the information just be public? The Council of State has also expressed its opinion on this. He said in his opinion on the first of the Woo: "Too one-sided emphasis on access to public sector information may (...) affect the quality of decision-making and effective functioning of public administration." Dixit the Council of State. Now Mr Van der Molen says: you could also anonymize it by default. That's one way to deal with it. I actually think the bottomline is that we want more openness. You can always have a discussion about the constitutional context, about the scope for confidential and good advice and discussion, including on decision-making. There is never any discussion about external accountability about choices made. I am therefore in favour of as much publicity as I can, as Mr Snoeren has proposed, but it will always be possible and necessary to consider it. So I think that the initiators have given a legal handle in the form of that list of what it is and what it is not. At least I can share that instinct. It leads to more publicity than under the Wob. In the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Molen, which goes further, I would point out that this has major consequences, particularly as it affects all administrative bodies. So that is not just about the discussion that we sometimes have here. It concerns all administrative bodies, because the Woo applies to all administrative bodies. I would like to return to that proposal, to Mr Van der Molen's amendment. I'd like to talk to you about that one more time in the cabinet. I would suggest to the President that I respond in writing, and that will of course be prior to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u107	I am looking at Mr Van der Molen. That's fine. Mr Van Raak, briefly, because there is also a second term, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u108	Cozy! The dividend tax, does the minister remember? Then an app came up from that Mr. Van Unilever to our Prime Minister, and then all that tax stopped. I asked for that app back then. Then the Prime Minister said: yes, no, I don't have to give that. Then the Council of State said no, but the Prime Minister has to give it. Then the Prime Minister said, "Yes, but now I've erased it again." So I have two questions. Would the Minister ask the Council of Ministers once again not to erase too many apps? And can I use this Woo as an ordinary citizen to get these apps in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u109	A few things. First of all, what we are talking about now is information for everyone, and Parliament is not just everyone. Mr Van Raak will confirm that. Parliament is not dependent on the Wob or the Woo, but simply on the Constitution. I think I can also repeat what the Council of State said on that point in its information. He pointed out that, in this relationship of trust, Parliament should always be able to trust that it is properly and fully informed. That's basically the basis of everything. So I would like to say to Mr Van Raak that you do not need a Wob or Woo; you should always be able to rely on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u110	No, but after the election, I quit. I'll just be a civilian. I can still vote now. Can I get the Prime Minister's apps with the Woo in hand later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u111	A good question!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u112	As far as I know, both under the Wob and later under the Woo, that kind of message can indeed be requested, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u113	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u114	I have a few final questions and a single amendment on which I would like to comment. Mrs Buitenweg asked about the question of the penalty payment that is no longer available. We abolished that stick behind the door. That wasn't for nothing, because it led to widespread use, or abuse, the way you look at it. We have also carried out an evaluation of the abolition of this scheme. It has actually been effective, because that just doesn't happen anymore. At the same time, there were indications that the lead times increased somewhat. We do not know whether that really is the result, because it may also be that there have just been many more and more complex Wob requests, with more information. They'll take time. So we don't have that financial stick behind the door. I hope it won't be necessary later. And so if we actively make public at the front, I assume that it would indeed be less than more necessary. But we need to keep a close eye on that. I would also like to ask the advisory body to pay attention to this and to encourage the departments in this respect to work as closely as possible, including in the current situation, as far as the Wob is concerned. Finally, a number of amendments. Mr Van der Molen's amendment on the time limits for settlement, a request in instalments. The amendment makes it explicitly possible to agree on the delivery of part of the requested documents in instalments in the event of a major request. Those are appointments that I believe can be made under the Wob. I think it could be in the interests of the applicants, but also of the administrative bodies. I would like to leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. This is, by the way, the amendment to item No. 15. Mr Snoeren and Mr Bishop have tabled an amendment to item No. 17, on business and manufacturing data. These are subject to the absolute exceptions in the Wob and to the relative exceptions in the Woo. That does not mean, moreover, that there was just a debate on........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Not at all. A balance must always be struck. So I can well imagine the judgment given by the initiators. I wonder how the Chamber feels about that. Then there is the Buitenweg amendment to item No. 18, on the common arrangements. I just heard Mr Snels say that this is actually an omission and that it should be added. That would be my approach, too. The Court of Justice has to judge that for itself, but that would be an improvement. Finally, the Sneller/Buitenweg amendment to item No. 19, on the documents to which the application relates. This is a little more complicated than that. The current line under the Wob is that when processing requests the date of submission of the Wob request is the reference date. That is, in fact, a practical point. Pieces must be collected. Pieces must be assessed. It's all gonna take time. And you have to say, this is what I'm looking for. If you are no longer allowed to hold on to that date, I am afraid that the opposite of what the amendment is about will actually be achieved. However, we want this information to be given as soon as possible and to be decided by the governing body. If everything has to be taken with you after the request has been received, then you will, quite practically speaking, stay busy. So for purely practical reasons, I would say: do not do this amendment, because I think it has an adverse effect. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you. With this we have arrived at the second term of office. Mr Van der Molen is already eager to say something. Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u116	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I can't wait to help you finish it in time. Everyone's looking at the clock and everything that's gonna bring this evening. Mr President, I left something of a beard in the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u117	Yeah, I almost didn't recognize you. Did you lose a bet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u118	No, I didn't lose a bet. I was thinking, if there's a sign of how long this is going to take and if you could get a beard of it between the first and the second term, this would fit. I don't know if I'm keeping it yet, Mr. Chairman, so I'm gonna ask you for some advice. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the initiators for answering the questions, because in the first term there were still some notes to crack. I refer, at least not with permission, to the point made by Mrs Kuiken of the Labour Party. I still have that feeling, also in preparation for this debate. There is an incredible amount of information about a very, very long time. I have to say quite frankly that, of course, we are hired here to go through everything well, and it is quite complicated to grasp all of that, let alone to imagine exactly what it is going to mean in practice. There is, of course, an evaluation clause in the law, but we will have to look very closely at how this is going to roll over the next few years. The Minister says it needs four years of preparation. I would also like to give it to everyone, because the biggest problem that you can certainly do to other governments is that things are rushing. But I have to say: it still feels like you don't really have a grip on it, let alone the people who are confronted with it. This calls for us to make that evaluation very sharp, even if we create all kinds of clubs, I say just so, that we should monitor it, in the sense that it is all going to roll and do it well, to warn us if it is working backwards in practice, or getting stuck, or if there is any trouble about costs, for example. That is typically Dutch perhaps, "what should it all cost" and so on, but that is very real. I am also here as the spokesman for the Interior to discuss with the same minister the deficits that municipalities now have. I'm a little uncomfortable that I don't have a very firm feeling about that yet. The Minister says she has agreed on the costs, but I would also like to get that from the Minister in writing again, because I do not want to be surprised. I would ask the Minister to send it to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the central location. In my first term, I talked about not seeing the forest through the trees. That's what I've been repeating in my interruption. I understand this way, but I'm not quite sure what it means yet. So I would also like to ask the Minister to explain to us what that means, because I really want to know what this means. Of course, this does not have to be done in twenty pages, and you do not have to spend years, as with this proposal, but I would really like to know from the Minister to be able to make a good assessment of what this will mean in practice. Mr Van Raak has already referred to the following point. I also have the question of how this relates to the wider debate that is going to take place here next week on topicality, which the initiators are also referring to. There is a great deal in the Van Dam Committee's report that also affects this. I await that debate very much. This is not only about the people involved, but certainly also about the issue of information management. That will be filled in page after page in that piece. We have already planned the vote for next week, but I have to see how these things are going to run through each other. I do not know if Mr Van Raak meant that, but it is in the planning that these things come together. In any case, I would like to thank the initiators once again for the explanation. We as the CDA Group are considering the outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u119	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Many thanks to the authors and to the Minister for reply. I found it very nice to hear the adventures of the boys in the years of work that preceded this, both here in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber, but especially in all the discussions that have taken place to make this as good a proposal as possible. It is an incredibly complicated proposal, but I do have the impression that I am getting some more solid ground, that it is feasible and also cheaper. What it reminds me a little bit is the GDPR. I know that incredibly many people in data protection run into what they all have to do to protect privacy. But there, too, it appears that a great deal was already mandatory, but was not complied with. This means that a lot of people now have a lot of work to do to comply with this General Data Protection Regulation, which should have been done before. It is good for the public administration that this GDPR is there and that there is a law that is very active in imposing an obligation to disclose data and that gives citizens the right to enforce that disclosure. I find the proposal recently made by PLOOI, which is open and can build on a future in which information is more visible. I was thinking about the following myself, and I was wondering what the initiators were thinking about that. How can you build in some kind of reward, so governments want to work towards getting some kind of vignette because they're a "green" municipality, a champion in unlocking? You're hoping there'll be some kind of race. If someone has code red or orange, you hope that someone like that has a desire to unlock as much as possible. This gives you the system that's built up, like body, because ultimately it's about that culture change and how one way or another you can stimulate it. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister very much, because I think that this law is finally taking an important step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u121	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mr. Chairman. Thanks again to the initiators and the people who have supported them in this long-term process. Of course, it's not ready, because when we're done here, you'll still have to go back to the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I've got a few things left. As Mr Van der Molen rightly said, this calls for a proper evaluation and a good finger on the wrist. Does it do what it has to do, namely to create good governance with each other, in which you can properly control decision-making and that is clear and transparent, versus prevent all kinds of administrative nuisance, which is exactly the opposite of what is going to happen? I'm on the Home Affairs Committee, too. I do not know what the next period will be, but at least I take it to heart that it should be put back on the agenda at both the Working Method and the Home Affairs Committee. It says something about how we deal with fellow governments: do we ask things of those who can deliver them, do we ask ourselves to do things that we can? And does it do what it has to do, or does it have the opposite effect? If that is the case, at least I am looking at the parties that have taken the initiative to submit them to take steps to adapt immediately. 'Cause I think we owe it to ourselves. This calls for critical self-reflection. Mr. Chairman. Finally. It is also about that cultural change that everything should become open in principle, and that you are not ashamed of it. At the same time, it must also be the case that the most clumsy views can simply be entrusted to paper. If I could ever become a ruler myself, that chance is slim, but imagine it happening. I want all, including the most clumsy, scenarios to be told to me, and I also want to be warned, for example, about precedent. Not that you have to act on it then, but I do want you to be warned. That's what you do as a civil servant. You have to put all the scenarios, all the bad options, all the possibilities on paper, so you can make an informed decision. We shouldn't be in a situation where you can't put the worst case scenarios and the weirdest options on the table anymore, because that's not culture anymore. On the contrary, I want to achieve the opposite, so that it becomes clear which options have been seriously considered and why and to what decision-making process that has led to. We shouldn't cover up or cover up or write down anymore, because we don't dare anymore. That is something I wish us all, because good decision-making is ultimately essential for all of us as citizens of this country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP. Mr. Van Raak, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u124	Yes. There are officials who think the information in their ministry is theirs, too. That's a nasty misunderstanding. That information belongs to the people. There are ministers who think they can decide which information goes to the Lower House. That's a nasty misunderstanding. That is what the Chamber decides for itself. We're gonna talk about that a lot in the next few weeks. These are misunderstandings that touch on the core of our parliamentary democracy. This law is not going to solve that, but this new Open Government Act is better than the old Public Administration Act. That is why I will wholeheartedly support this bill. It started with a very big law, which was not enforceable. That went to a law which was enforceable but which had become very small. And in the last few days, the law has been extended again. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned a final sprint. I don't agree with that, because you do a final sprint to the measurement, and the measurement isn't here. It's across the street from the First Chamber. So I see it more as a demarrage. But Mr Van Weyenberg also knows that the danger of a demarrage is of course the chase-patate: you do demarre from the Lower House, but do you also arrive at the First? I sincerely hope so. I want to wish the boys good luck across the street, and I hope they get the measure there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u125	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Snoeren on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the initiators of the proposal for answering the many questions. And thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. There were quite a few in the first term, and the answer also gave cause for reflection. I will certainly take those considerations with me to my group. I am also looking at what Mr Van der Molen said in his second term. I've been in this Chamber since the end of September, and the package of paper on this initiative law is really the thickest suit in my room. There has been a history of it since 2012; at least I have come that far back. You have also named it in your route through this proposal. As I mentioned in my maiden speech, Chamberwork can also go from one side to the other. That turned out to be the case yesterday, when there was another letter of amendment. In the short term that I am now in the Chamber, therefore, I have been able to experience quite a lot, and for that I would like to thank the initiators. It's an educational school. In my first term, I focused on this scope. An answer has been received from the initiators, for which I am grateful. I'll take it back. I understand the answer, but I am going to discuss in my group how we are going to proceed with this. The same applies to manufacturing data. That amendment is there. I am still convinced that it is a good amendment. I also hope that there will be a majority, because we really need to ensure that we protect those smaller companies in particular from the perhaps very large government. This does not affect the openness and transparency that we as a VVD consider to be extremely important, also because the democratic rule of law is extremely important, as everyone has already mentioned. The second last point I want to mention is the finances. Mr Van der Molen has already come up and the Minister has already said something about it. I am also on the Committee on Home Affairs and I am also allowed to sit on the table with municipal and local authorities. That's still a concern. I do wonder what the financial impact of enlargement is due to the letter of amendment. I would like to have more clarification on that and make sure that there is real agreement on it. Then I come to my final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mr. Faster, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u128	Mr Snoeren left him in the middle to vote in favour. I understand that, also in view of the group council, but he does say that if the law is passed, there must be enough money for the municipalities and other local authorities to be able to implement this law properly. Do I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u129	Of course, it is always the case that there will have to be money when we as a Chamber make a decision. But the question we have to ask is: what are we not doing or what are we doing less? After all, the money will have to come from somewhere. I'm curious what we're gonna get into this discussion. Where are we gonna get that money? In any case, there must be good proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u130	Mr. Faster, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u131	Sure. That is the integrated decision-making that was also referred to. However, I would ask Mr Snoeren whether it is true that if this law is adopted, there should be sufficient money in the decision-making process to ensure that municipalities are able to implement it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u132	At the time when a decision is taken by this Chamber, Article 2 of the law requires that we regulate it. I hope that is enough. Mr. Chairman. My final point has already been made: the evaluation. We are doing a lot more with the letter of amendment. There's gonna be a lot of changes with the Open Government Act. Then it is very important to see how that develops. If the Chamber adopts this law, I hope we'll really look carefully when we evaluate. Let us not wait too long, even if it says in the law when that should happen. If, for example, the advisory board recognizes cases, we must be able to intervene quickly. I hope there will be another reaction from the initiators. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you, Mr. Snoeren. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At least we start the year well with a motionless debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u135	Yeah, I don't know what I'm going through!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u136	Those are probably the good intentions. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for their reply. I have read with great interest the report on which, among other things, Mrs Kuiken has contributed. Somewhere at the beginning, the chairman of the committee has already said that putting the information system in order must be a priority and an important political task for the cabinet. He put it nicely in his press conference. I think this has been underlined by the Chamber in the reply and in all the interruptions. I believe that this law can also be an important impetus for this. In my first term I asked a number of questions about the register, about the information Commissioner and about the sunrise, as I mentioned it, although that is not a very good word. I welcome the move forward that the initiators have taken with the letter of amendment to give the advisory board some extra powers. I also welcome the referral index. I think that it has potential, and at the same time it is realistic in view of the current poor state of the information system. I am curious to hear the applicants' response to the need for a delegation clause, because the advisory board has such an important role, but has not yet been fully crystallised. That is logical in itself and not everything is of legal order, but I think it would be a good idea to include a provision for that. Mrs Kuik spoke very well of the importance of the Chamber to stay very close to it. I will not try to repeat that. Mr Van Weyenberg said that the finish line is in sight or he used another beautiful cycling race metaphor. At the same time, however, this is only the beginning, even after Mr Van Raak's'measuring', and then, with all these multiannual plans, it will be put in order. The four years the Minister outlined are probably realistic. At the same time it's not really like you're thinking: yes, we're almost there! There must have been a progress report in a week in which there has been no incident, and then there will be a debate from that beautiful Committee on the Interior in which there are only a few spokesmen to monitor whether the information system and getting it in order is really upset. Let's stick with that. I am therefore looking forward to the initiatives taken by Mrs Kuiken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u137	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Then we are actually done with the second term on the side of the Chamber. A few questions have been asked, but not very much. I understand that the initiators can answer directly. Look, you guys are really good at this, I see. Is Mr. Snels going first? Yeah? I call Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u138	The chair is going very high, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u139	Excuse me. He's all set up on Mr. Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u140	I'm gonna disappear! Mr. Chairman. I'll start again. That's very easy. Mr Van Weyenberg will then be able to clear up the remaining questions. A number of questions have also been asked to the Minister. There was some sort of line in the second term of the Chamber, I noticed. It was about the complexity of the law. We must keep a close eye on how it is going to work in practice. I agree entirely with the MPs of the VVD, CDA and the Labour Party who have said that. Is there anything else I can add to that? There are all kinds of cross-sections in how we sit here behind this table. The same goes for the Chamber. The spokesman for the Treasury, who is talking about supplements, is now a guest again, I shall say, in the Committee on Home Affairs. With Mr Sneller, I am also the rapporteur for the Chamber on Quality. It is, of course, about the quality of legislation and policy proposals. In advance, you must ensure that you monitor efficiency and effectiveness. That is something we have done a great deal in recent years when it comes to amending the law. We have made sure that we have the goals clear, but certainly also the feasibility and affordability, because we need to be able to explain this to the taxpayer. Well, we did that with all the adjustments. However, understanding quality is always a part of the process. There is often too little attention to the issue of a proper review of legislation. It's not for nothing in the law. It is important that, as a Chamber, in fact in all legislation, we ensure that we keep a close eye on it in practice, in the debates that we have, in the monitoring of the government's implementation. But we also need to look at the effects of legislation with a real evaluation. We have far too little attention for that. That is something I happen to do with Mr Sneller: make sure that this assessment of public policy is done in a good way. As far as I am concerned, this is also a real task if the law eventually reaches a majority across the board. It is also a task for the Minister to ensure that we know how we are going to properly evaluate this law. That indeed has many aspects. It's about the cost. It's about local government. It is about whether we are doing it in a way that works best in practice, both with PLOOI and with active disclosure. Is it going well with the way we think the college should work? In fact, all these aspects should be included in such an evaluation. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered a lot of questions from several Members of Parliament here. I was very pleased to hear that there is also a certain openness with the CDA and the VVD. They have, of course, voted against the law in a previous round of negotiations. They also understand that we need to take steps in the public information system and also in the public disclosure of public information. It is good to hear that both groups are going back now and will think carefully about their voting behaviour. I also always like to say, as an opposition chamber member, that I think we have implemented the coalition agreement very well. That should be an advice to both coalition parties. I hope, however, that the VVD will reconsider the amendment tabled, which we have actually advised against. The Minister also said that it was not necessary for the cabinet. It would be a step back, too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u141	Thank you, Mr. Quick. We'll hold off on the switch for a second. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For me, the cathedral could go up a little bit, halfway between Mr Snels and Mr Hoekstra, so to speak. Thank you to Members for their second-term questions. Thanks to Mr Van Raak I have drawn the painful conclusion that if you are standing here, you must be careful even with cycling metaphors. Doing so one learns. But to stay in there for a while: I said that I hope that after a very winding road full of cobblestones we get a little straight. Then you're not there yet, but if you go too early, you don't have a chase-patate, but you do have a jump too early. I don't want that either. It is true that this is the first cycling race, the first day, but the real race of course does not start until this law enters into force. We need to see if we can make real progress in practice. That's what we're doing all this for. The law is still the means, no matter how much I enjoyed doing this with Mr Snels and Mr Voortman, and with all those who are closely involved in this dossier, our supporters. The goal is that in practice something is really going to change. Pretending we're almost at the finish line would be hybrid. After that, there's always a trap. So I'd like to make that right. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the evaluation, it is of course important for the advisory board to keep its finger on the pulse and to see if the law does what it should do, as Mrs Kuiken said, to have an important role for the advisory committee on public access and information management, which has the new legal task of asking the government and both chambers to advise on the implementation of the rules on public disclosure. For example, it should also look at whether the multiannual plan contributes enough. It is absolutely true: then we can learn from what is happening in practice, whether the goal is being achieved and whether the instruments we now have in this law are also the right ones. We can learn what bottlenecks are possible and what further steps we can take if it turns out that some cold feet in practice, either by brilliant ICT solutions, or by a different culture and by good systems, are resolved. Then that is indeed a cultural change, Mrs Kuiken stressed that once again, to a culture in which there is an open advice and in which all the considerations in this Chamber or other individuals or representatives of the people come together. That fits perfectly. But we have given a legal basis that helps, is our conviction. Also for questions that do not directly touch this, the Wob remains the lower limit for the information provision. But if you do not have the information system in order, then you can see the report in which Mrs Kuik, among others, has been involved, is also clear about this: sometimes rulers do not have the information, which hinders them in their functioning. So that information management is, whatever exact opinion you have on personal policy concepts and on Article 68... No matter how you're in it, without a good information system, everything's gonna go wrong, no matter how you do it. Then Mr Van Raak asked about the chase-patate. We're not gonna do that. Then I'm referring to that chase-patate. Finally, Mr Sneller asked for a delegation clause. If I've understood him correctly, he wants to create a legal hook with which you, if it turns out you're not gonna get there legally... I hope that the Minister, together with the members of the College or at least with the chairman, will simply come up with a good impact on those exact means and so on. But when it comes to the question of whether it might be more convenient to do it legally, I now tend to say: do not benefit, it does not harm. In any case, create the possibility in case you need to do something legally. Put a hook in the law. Of course, I haven't seen an amendment yet, but my first reaction would be that it might prevent you from having to create another hook before you can do anything. Many Members, including Mr Van der Molen, have said that there is still a great deal of uncertainty in the sense that much is still open and needs to be worked out. I think that's standard. The law is never the end, not even the law. I think we've done a lot of precise things. As he said earlier, you have written down a great deal of detail. But the point of departure is that we stand here with the intention that things have to be different. We offer the means and the legal space, so that otherwise things have to be different. We are creating tools that will give this public access a greater role, both in information provision and in the information system. I would like to end with the call made by Mr Sneller in his first term. He said that in this domain, in this file alone, there have been eight years from our country... Of course, it's been going on for a long time, because the Wob hasn't come about without a hit or a hit. But we really have to be careful that it's not that... It's always... not today. It's always tomorrow. There is always a reason to postpone it or do it differently. As far as I am concerned, we, as initiators, have specifically tried to take our role on this point and on that part on which we have our own influence, that is to say, to take a step forward in this round of initiatives, because I think everyone agrees that this information system should simply be improved. I'm happy with that very broad support. I hope, indeed, that we have also been able to convince the original opponents of the first law that, at this time, even in terms of what is currently going on, it is really inevitable to take these great steps. I hope that we have been convincing enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u143	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. We wait a few seconds, so that the chair can be cleaned. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked to me. There aren't many of them, by the way. I fully understand the issue of costs and co-governments. That has been noticed by several people. Mr Van der Molen expressed that very clearly. For everyone who said that we often talk about it in the BZK committee, I say: yes indeed. I have concerns about municipal finances, also in the general sense. I also think it is right for fellow governments to say: if we are going to do this, there is a cost involved. But we've really made agreements about it. I also informed the Chamber about this on 20 June last. Those appointments are on the table. I like to reconfirm it here. Mr Van der Molen's second question actually meant that he would like to know a little more about how that system, PLOOI, works. I would like to say a few words about this very briefly. It actually processes uploaded files. It can therefore link them to documentation management systems that governments have. It's coming all the way to the end of the stretch. In my view, it is a very substantial and quite simple tool to achieve openness. The Chamber was also informed about this, namely in January 2019, in the multiannual information programme. This is also described in the letter of amendment of the initiators. Then Mrs. Chicken. I'm skipping Mrs Buitenweg because she didn't have any questions at my address. Mrs Kuik called for more openness, but at the same time called for attention to be paid to good advice. I would very much like to support that. It wouldn't do us any good if we had more publicity, but we wouldn't have good advice anymore. Officials need to be protected; their professionalism is extremely important. But that's where we're at. I think it is very important that both the Cabinet and the Parliament give officials the assurance that they can do their work in a professional way and that they can be protected in that work. I'd say it's just more publicity. That requires discipline from us, too. It requires no fearful officials, no fearful ministers and MPs who handle it very carefully and well. Mr Snoeren then asked about the financial impact of the letter of amendment. They focus on the new, extended role of the advisory board. I have said that I will provide additional resources for this. Everything that has to do with PLOOI, the information disconnect system, has already been taken into account. That was already in the execution tests, so that was already provided for. Mr. Chairman. I think those were the questions that were asked to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u145	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill. I would like to thank the initiators, Mr Snels and Mr Van Weyenberg, who have brought this proposal to a conclusion. It is not easy to prepare and deal with such a bill in your parliamentary membership, in addition to the ordinary general consultation and the other chamber work, so much appreciation and thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-tweedekamer-9.u146	I understand that we will vote on the legislative proposal and the amendments tabled later. Let me take a look at Mr Van der Molen. It had a procedural remark, but if it stays there, we'll vote next week, otherwise you'll notice. Once again, thank you very much, also to the Minister and the support.
