ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the budget for Kingdom relations. A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State. Thank you for joining us. We have 12 participants in this budget debate. The first speaker is Mr De Graaf of the PVV Group. He has three minutes' speaking time. I propose that we make five separate comments per group in this period. You can insert them in any order or combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	I call Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Right down the hallway, that's handy with three minutes and so many speakers. I'll make up two now. When it comes to the Antilles: since 10-10-10 there is another form in our Kingdom relations. I think that the crisis that we have been experiencing for a year and a half through the corona measures is an excellent time to ask the government - they are missionary, but in the corona field missionary - to call once again on the other countries in our Kingdom to go into adulthood and talk to them about it. Because what's better at raising your children? I've talked about "our children" more often in relation to the islands, in a loving way than saying: now is the time to show your maturity. Now is the time to do it all by yourself. This is the time to reform and distort your own governance culture, in a good way. I'd like to call on the Secretary of State to resume that conversation. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Point two is Aruba and administrative culture. There's a new cabinet. There, too, a new administrative culture is being developed. Then I like to see that, for example, Minister Tjon has ensured that conflicts of interest remain out of the picture. He has asked his wife to take on another position, so that it does not interfere with his new position. I like that very much. On the other hand, however, there are three ministers named Croes, and since almost everyone on the island is related, I ask the Secretary of State if he can discuss the administrative culture there again. Mr. Chairman. Then another point from Aruba. The Secretary of State wants to provide corona support if a condition is met. It is not our preference to pay out this aid widely, but I thought the condition was separate: 60 million guilder cuts in health care and then something to do with health. That's like asking an alcoholic to drink three bottles of vodka just before entering the detox; only then can he enter rehab. Or say to a smoking obesity patient: you need a QR code, and so an injection, to get into the McDonald's and then eat you full. That's kind of the condition the Secretary of State makes of Aruba. I find that special and I would like to explain this. Where's the logic? Mr. Chairman. I am almost through my time and I also see an interruption by Mrs van den Berg approaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	I'd like to come back to Mr. De Graaf's introduction. He says: isn't the corona crisis the time to come to maturity? I would really like to ask the following question, and I would like to have a more detailed explanation of that. In the Netherlands, we say that it is the biggest crisis after the Second World War, a crisis in which we all have a very difficult time and say that we have to do it together. Why do you say at such a time in fact "you figure it out and you choke on it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u5	That's a wrong interpretation of my words. I get it from the CDA. The Antilles are the favorite problem for the CDA to keep forever, so that we can talk about it forever and send money forever. Then you can fly there with all of you. Unfortunately, this summer I could not join our study trip with the Upper House, but I would have liked to go along, also to see the situation on the spot. It couldn't have happened this time. We always have to use a crisis to get better. That crisis is there. Let me say it again anyway, it is a bit my theme in Kingdom relations: if your children experience something fierce, you have to grab it, so that they grow from it and stand on their own feet. That's a very logical story. That's not saying "choke on it." That's a very nice development incentive, which makes you put someone all in their power. We can do that with those islands, or with the other countries, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u6	First of all... Mr. De Graaf's words about how the CDA looks at this file, I'll leave it with him. I will start my introduction by saying: we have a distant family, we have a close family, and as far as we are concerned, the Caribbean family with which we have been linked for centuries and to which we have an obligation. Mr. De Graaf says you need to use a crisis to do things better. I would point out that this Secretary of State has already said "building back better" with Hurricane Irma, so try to get better out of it. I don't think this sounds like Mr. De Graaf's words. Excuse me. I coughed twice, but I don't have a cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u7	It's not illegal to have a cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u8	But it doesn't sound like it in Mr. De Graaf's words what kind of help he'd like to give. That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u9	In fact, it is nice what Mrs Van den Berg is doing, because in her own words she gives exactly what I have said about this. That's nice, so thank you for confirming how the CDA looks at it. That's exactly what I'm talking about: maintaining the favorite problem forever. You can say it's family, and that's what I'm saying, but I'm gonna explain that to you again if something's going on, we're gonna have to say, take this bite to get independent of it, to grow up, to grow up. That's a very nice stimulus. I think this is still a very good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u10	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. I have one final comment to make on Saint Eustatius. A motion was passed in 2026, more or less Chamberwide. Everyone was happy then, because there would never be President Trump again. Maybe one of the Trumpen will come back and we'll still fire salute shots in 2026! To celebrate 250 years of United States. This way karma always, I hope, has a very nice ending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Aukje de Vries from the group of the CDA... of the VVD. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The inhabitants and entrepreneurs in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom and the Caribbean part of the Netherlands have been hit hard by the global corona crisis. It was hard, and it still is. It is good that the Netherlands has made every effort to help the inhabitants and entrepreneurs on the islands with support for care, for businesses and for the inhabitants, for example in the area of food and basic services. Unfortunately, the problems and vulnerabilities have become even more apparent and increased, partly because of the loss of income from the main economic sector: tourism. The structural problems are being solved too slowly in terms of the VVD. I would like a reflection from the Secretary of State on the problem-solving capacity on the islands. Mr. Chairman. I'll divide my contribution into two blocks. First, the public bodies Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba and then the autonomous countries in the Kingdom of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint-Maarten. Mr. Chairman. Research shows that at least 40% of people live below the minimum standard of living. Steps have already been taken to set the benchmark for the social minimum and related measures to improve the living security of residents. There is the Kralendijk Agreement on Bonaire, with which all parties, including employers, agree. In principle, it is right that the outgoing cabinet should leave this package to a new cabinet, but 2022 seems to be a lost year. The VVD wants to take a step in 2022. Why didn't the cabinet choose to take a step on Saba and Bonaire in 2020 now that the cabinet formation is taking so long? Mr. Chairman. The VVD also wants to continue to look critically at the fixed costs for the residents of the BES. Increasing self-reliance is important. Investment in infrastructure, IT and international public transport are costs that a small island often cannot bear itself. We need to help with these investments and we need to realise that many investments will often not be profitable economically, but are important to reduce the cost of living in a structural way, for example by setting up solar panels. If the Netherlands finances the construction, the electricity generated is cheaper and the fixed costs can be reduced. In our view, this is better than subsidising income or utilities. There is occasional investment in the islands, but no attention is paid to structural follow-up expenditure. That is not taken into account. That should be better in the future. How does the Secretary of State intend to solve that? Mr. Chairman. There is also a report from the University of Wageningen on the development possibilities for the agricultural sector in the Caribbean Netherlands. The VVD is strongly in favour of becoming more self-sufficient. What will the Cabinet do with this report? Mr. Chairman. The VVD would like to know about the state of play of public transport on Bonaire and about the expansion plans of Bonaire International Airport and the investment agenda of WEB, i.e. Water and Energy Company Bonaire. Mr. Chairman. If we believe that the autonomous countries of the Kingdom should have financial management in order, this also applies to Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba. Saba is the only island that seems to have its business in order. What room can Saba get extra and when can this be clarified? We are now many years after 10-10-2010. In fact, therefore, we should be ashamed of the fact that it is not in financial order everywhere. Can the Secretary of State indicate when it is or should be in order? When can we solve the problems? Mr. Chairman. The Justice Policy Agenda 2021-2025 identified as priorities, inter alia, undermining and border surveillance. The VVD lacks concrete goals and a time schedule or timetable. What's it gonna be concrete? When is it clear when the Bibob Act or a variant tailored to the BES islands will also make sense? There is a pilot, but the VVD wants this to be speeded up, because undermining and corruption must be combatable, including in the BES islands. Then the islands of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin, the autonomous countries. The islands are in a financial and economic crisis and need support from the Netherlands. The VVD also wants to support these islands and show solidarity, but we also need to be sensible. So we are adding conditions and reforms to that, so that countries will be able to leave their own pants as autonomous countries. Making conditions isn't special. We also do this in the European Union, for example. The leaders of the autonomous countries should focus on their people, who are becoming unemployed and starving. That's what the focus should be on, because you can't live on autonomy. I hope the drivers will take the opportunity to do the right things for their residents and the companies. Mr. Chairman. I have had this portfolio since March and yet it is already frustrating for me to see that the islands are constantly renegotiating and slowing down. Let me give you a few examples from recent times. A difficult compromise was reached on the settlement of disputes after many consultations. When the settlement is finally in the Upper Chamber, Aruba does not want to go and also follow Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. As far as we're concerned, that's not how you work together and how you build trust. Mr. Chairman. In this corona crisis, the Netherlands has already provided a lot of liquidity support to the countries of Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten, but it must be reformed. It has been agreed that there will be a Caribbean body for reform and development. However, this is only delayed and delayed. The proposals would be presented at the beginning of September. Why aren't they there yet and why is it delayed? Let me be clear: as far as the VVD is concerned, we will no longer provide liquidity support if all agreements are not complied with. Also with regard to the country packages, there seems to be reluctance to comply with some of the agreements. As far as we are concerned, the countries and their directors must take up their responsibilities and get on with it themselves. As far as we are concerned, the basic problem is poor governance. For example, the finances are not in order, the directors pass on each other through the system of friends and family jobs and there is corruption, maladministration and job neglect. What about the progress of the country packages? What is the state of play in dealing with financial management, tax collection, improving public administration, tackling corruption, undermining and money laundering, improving the rule of law and reforming and improving the economy? No one likes to pay taxes, of course, but that is necessary for all the facilities of the islanders. We have no idea if whatever comes in is right. Friends and family don't pay taxes, tax is waived, companies, hotels and casinos don't have to pay taxes and there are people who can prove that they have paid without being found in the administration. It cannot be that the Netherlands is giving money while the islands are making a mess of financial management. When can these points be improved and resolved? Mr. Chairman. Two final points. The government representative of Kingdom relations, the State Secretary, is often too dependent on other ministries and has only a coordinating role. In fact, the overview of all other ministries is often lacking. For the future, the VVD wants more powers for the ruler to be able to carry through improvements properly. What, according to the Secretary of State, would be a workable form? Finally, on behalf of the SP, you will be surprised, Mr President. Of course, Mr Van Raak and Mr Bosman have always worked closely together on this dossier. SP and VVD are both curious to see how the government intends to implement the Van Raak motion on new relations and, as a follow-up, the Bosman motion, which is very similar. I hope that will be speeded up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you. You're pretty shorter than you'd given up, so that's okay. Now is a very beautiful and solemn moment, because we are going to listen to Mrs Wuite's maiden speech. Mrs Leijten was also on the list of speakers, but she is not here. So it's your turn now, Mrs. Wuite. Good luck with that. Mrs Wuite has been given two minutes extra speaking time because it is her maiden speech. So we're gonna sit extra upright with splashed ears to listen to her. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, good morning, bon dia for the chairman, for the special guests of the Caribbean Islands, for the Secretary of State and for my dear colleagues. It is indeed a great honour to be here, in the heart of our democracy, for my maiden speech about, among other things, the wise lesson of my Aunt Marjorie, the power of Irma and also a story about you and me. My Aunt Marjorie told me the other day that decades ago, my grandfather predicted that I would be standing here. He did so under the so-called sandbox tree, a tree where many community affairs were discussed and planned at St.Maarten by people who were not allowed to vote at that time, not as in the Netherlands. They're stories that sometimes you can use when words fail about why you're here and why we're here together. My mother came from Sint-Maarten and my father from Holland. When my parents met at the culture school in The Hague, bicultural families were still an exception. In search of my bicultural identity I went to the Caribbean as a thirties with my family. When Irma hit us, I lived on Saint Martin. Four years ago, on 6 September 2017, I sat with my Aunt Marge in a small bathroom when the storm raged over the islands at over 300 kilometers per hour. I'm sure you've seen the images of despair and chaos in the Netherlands. My best purchase in preparation for the arrival of Irma was a chainsaw. I needed it to cut through the fallen trees a path to the road. "We are a Resilient country" was the mantra of many in 2017, not knowing that the belief in a resilient society last year would be central in all parts of the Kingdom, also here in the Netherlands. Crises of this magnitude have a huge mental impact on your life, including mine. And that collective sense of disaster and the resilience that comes out of it, I carry with me forever. Mr. Chairman. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is vanuit deze geschiedenis en deze idealen dat ik, zoals ik al zei, vereerd ben om hier vandaag te mogen staan.]] 'Cause we're not just here. Our story begins far before the birth of yours and of my parents. When I think of our history, I also think of the story of the Dutch Kingdom and its colonies. The relationship was for more than 300 years that of the ruler and of the colonized. Through education and through honest conversations here, in our Chamber, we should talk about this shared history: the Dutch role in the slave trade. We need to talk about the consequences, what it has done with relationships, torn family ties, and how these deeply rooted problems can be overcome, because it is about inequality. Mr. Chairman. Caribbean people also call on us to replace the images of failure and inability with the things that go well, such as local entrepreneurship in Otrabanda, the perseverance for better agriculture. About talented professionals here and there, creative people showing so much talent and vibe that you're alive. About Saba, as the first place in the Netherlands with 100% renewable energy between 8 and 5. I am also standing here for the younger Dutch generation, and a lot of women, who are open to telling me that they have not received enough about the colonial past and who believe that this should be corrected. They're curious, interested. And young people whispering to me through social media that it feels good to have someone in this room from the islands. I am also here in front of the Caribbean-Dutch fellow man, here in the Netherlands, and I am proud of it every day, because they are going through setbacks, such as a 22-year-old, who studies Dutch and releases his first poetry collection: Tears of a Caribbean. They tell me they don't feel like they belong. They see little representation and therefore, unfortunately, do not make enough use of their voting rights. "The concept of we definitely had a priority over the concept of me; where I was only justified, or equally relevant, in acting in service of we," writes Maria Plantz about her father. This is about us and that is why I do not really want to talk about a European and a Caribbean part, or about four countries and three special municipalities. D66 wants to talk about the hopes and aspirations of one Kingdom of the Netherlands, where common values, honesty, freedom, justice and opportunities are central. That requires commitment and investment; no ambivalence, no restraint, and no doubt, neither here nor in the Caribbean islands. D66 calls for a new chapter with Kingdom relations, based on strength and multiple voices. I'm standing here for these aspirations. And I feel like it's gonna work out in this new room, more diverse than ever. People expect us, in this house, to be able to heal, and that we can connect. Mr. Chairman. It is, therefore, on the basis of this personal story that I continue my input to this budget debate on the issues of social justice, democratic values and climate, with the question to this Secretary of State. First of all, climate change, which, as we said earlier, affects the islands disproportionately. That's what our Prime Minister said the other day at the United Nations. That is why it is important that the Caribbean part of the Kingdom is on the front line when it comes to climate adaptation. The BES islands are the first municipalities in the Netherlands to switch almost completely to renewable energy: there is wind, there is sun and there is plenty of water. The report Sustainable affordable energy in the Caribbean Netherlands sets out a plan to achieve this. Bonaire is still too dependent on oil and is vulnerable because of the tensions in the region. We now have to make an investment in oil supply through Bonaire Fuel Terminals BV, whereas we actually want to invest in sustainability. At the same time, energy costs are rising, here and also on the islands. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that there is therefore an opportunity for sustainable and affordable energy? Following my colleague Mr Boucke's motion, a roadmap for climate-neutral energy supply in the Caribbean Netherlands will be presented. I'm looking forward to that. I would like to add the following: are we also looking at the urgent financing of this? Mr. Chairman. Combating climate change is a matter for the whole of the Kingdom, but unfortunately the words "sustainability" and "climate" are not reflected in the budget, while it is certainly the most urgent threat in the long term. That is why I will table a motion calling for a joint strategy to make climate a structural subject of discussion. Mr. Chairman. The question we need to ask ourselves here is whether every Dutchman is really worth the same euro, whether we really appreciate the Caribbean islands. We cannot regard the islands primarily as a cost, as is often done. Caribbean Dutch overseas can't even count on national laws that affect them. In the Antilles the universal right to vote was not introduced in 1919 but only in 1949. So that was only a very short time ago. Strong democratic values are crucial to our future. D66 therefore continues to worry about the slowness of the restoration of democracy on Saint-Eustatius. The fundamental right to democratic self-government of 3,000 inhabitants has been suspended for three years. We supported that, but it's unprecedented anyway. I'm actually ashamed it's taking so long. We have had a debate on it. The progress report says that we are receiving the route time table, but now the budget says that the motion has been cancelled. I therefore ask you again: where is the route time table? Is civil participation in particular really caught? Unfortunately, I must also conclude that the situation under the direct political responsibility of the Netherlands is not always beating. How is it that after three years of The Hague's reign the financial system is not yet fully in place for such a small municipality? Mr. Chairman. A year ago, the discussion began about what we now know as the COHO. In the meantime, we've moved on from many loans and gifts. Do we have any focus on what we're working towards? When do we agree that it is a sustainable success? The land patch and the implementation agendas are sometimes not sufficiently concrete in this respect. How are clear objectives set? Are important conclusions and recommendations, such as the AIV report or the Ombudsman's report, taken into account? How does the government solve the message about capacity problems when working on reforms? Mr. Chairman. During the Interparliamentary Kingdom consultation we saw a sharp division. We have once again been touched by the concerns and poverty of many people we have spoken to. It's taking too long. We cannot wait for the formation of a new government, as the colleague of the VVD mentioned earlier. That's why D66 calls on the government to increase the minimum wage and benefit on Saba and on Bonaire. People expect us to take the next step. I shall therefore table a motion for a resolution on this matter. Mr. Chairman. D66 stands for connectedness within the Kingdom. "We are a Resilient state" is, in my opinion, the right terminology. Thank you, Chairman, and God bless.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you. A beautiful, inspired maiden speech. Congratulations on that. You said something about a chainsaw. It may also come in handy in politics in The Hague, so I would certainly import it here from St.Maarten. If you'd be so good as to stand here for a moment, I'll suspend for a moment. Then you'll be congratulated. Mrs. Wuite, if you stand here... yes, perfect. That's the best part. I'll suspend just a moment for the congratulations and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u17	While Mrs.Wuite still enjoys her beautiful flowers slashing off, remember, we are going to listen to Mrs.Kuiken from the Labour Party group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations for Mrs Wuite's maiden speech. It's always a happy moment for you to share that here. It was a wonderful reflection, from the family tree to a Resilient state. That is a lot of inspiration and I hope that in the coming months and years we will see that in the cooperation here in this Parliament. Congratulations again. I will not keep such an inspiring story, simply because I have very limited time, but also because I want to do business with this Secretary of State, who may be present in our house for the last time. I'm not saying he'll leave the cabinet, but well, you never know what role and what post he'll come back to. Perhaps we will have a Secretary of State, Mr Wuite, or a Secretary of State, Mr Paternotte, whom I now happen to see sitting in the Chamber. So it could be wrong. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to simply put a few wishes on the table. They are mainly about combating poverty, which will not be surprising. I'll start with the understand. We have again made impressive work visits on Bonaire last summer. In addition, we have once again seen that people simply cannot make ends meet. Friend and enemy agree, only the final step has yet to be taken. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: can we expect a move from this outgoing cabinet with the support of the Chamber? The second point also raised by Mrs Wuite concerns the Law on minimum wage. There is a beautiful Kralendijk chord. It can be introduced, but it still has to be settled before 1 November. That's 3 million. I'd like to see that settled. We may be able to temporarily extract some of them from the corona support packages and finance some of them in a different way. Mrs. Wuite will make a proposal. I do not know whether or not I can support this proposal, but I am also prepared to make a specific suggestion. But perhaps it would be even better for the Secretary of State to come forward with a proposal. Another point concerns double child benefit for children with severe disabilities. This measure has been promised, but implementation is delayed because it does not come up with a proposal that is workable for Bonaire. It's an estimated 90 children. My request is very simple: simply place the right of indication with a pediatrician. 90 children, a pediatrician can handle that, and that does not require the same complicated construction as we have in the Netherlands. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Wages on the islands are lower than necessary. I would like to know whether it is not possible to reach a wage bill. Economic sectors such as tourism, engineering, construction, nature management, well-being and retailing are particularly important in this context. Is it not feasible at least to start an investigation into this? Another important part when it comes to living...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u19	Before you move on to another subject, there is another interruption by Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u20	I'd like an explanation. Mrs Kuik is talking about a wage bill. I do know a work-cost arrangement. I wonder if she wants a particular tax regime, so I would like a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u21	We want to make it possible for employers in the Caribbean Netherlands not to have fully qualified workers combine labour and study. An important part of achieving a viable living is reducing costs. This applies to water, Internet access and transport. We have previously tabled a motion which has also been successful in reducing the tariffs for energy and drinking water in a structural manner, but it is not being implemented in any way. My simple question is therefore: why not and why not put money in front of it? Freedom of movement is extremely important. We know bus and train connections here, but on the islands you are simply dependent on good air transport and that too still leaves us to be desired. Sint-Eustatius was intervened in 2018. There was gross neglect of duties. What is the state of affairs now in order to go back to normal relations? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u22	Fine, thank you. Then Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this world we have acquaintances, friends and family. The inhabitants of the BES Islands of Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius are for the CDA Group as a close family and the inhabitants of the CAS countries of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint-Maarten as a distant family. We feel connected to them. This Secretary of State has spent a lot of time, resources and energy in the islands in recent years. Good progress has been made. Compliments for that. But as in the recent meeting with the Red Cross it became clear again: by Hurricane Irma on St.Maarten and by corona on all islands there has been a huge setback. There is still great poverty among large groups, despite the various support packages from the Netherlands. Because Corona is the main source of income, the tourist industry, not yet at the old level. Mr. Chairman. The CDA would like to see an integrated plan with perspective, especially for young people. That's a plan that fits in with the recent CDA report "Doing justice, living healthy, connecting difference. Together responsible." It says: "The Caribbean region within our Kingdom of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, and as parts of the Netherlands Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, too, deserves a new perspective." According to the CDA, this can only be done if four pillars are further developed. Firstly, the continuation of the commitment to the rule of law. The budget says quite rightly: "A functioning rule of law is a prerequisite for economic development and sustainable public finances, and ensures the legality of spending." Against this background, last year the CDA Group stressed that free press and independent news gathering are essential elements for the functioning of such a democratic society. A motion called for the media to continue to operate in the Caribbean Netherlands and in the countries where possible. What actions have been taken to this end last year? What's the latest on the Pointe Blanche prison in Saint Martin? And is the government prepared to provide any further emergency aid to the CAS islands? Secondly, give more powers to the ruler Kingdom relations, in order to avoid fragmentation. We have been arguing for this as a CDA group and as a Lower House for some time now, but the report of the General Court of Auditors from June this year shows: "Our research shows that the Minister of BZK is unable to effectively fulfil its coordinating role in relation to the Caribbean Netherlands. Where prior coordination takes place, this often has an informative character. However, it also happens that the Ministry of BZK only subsequently learns that a special benefit is or is provided by a responsible minister." This has got to stop. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what needs to be done. Thirdly, considering how more expenditure can be made structural. The Court's above-mentioned report confirms the current ad hoc approach. Between 2011 and 2019, no less than 310 special benefits were paid. The CDA Group would like to see a plan before April 2022 on how funds from the Netherlands can be made more structural and less earmarked. The group also wants to know how the costs of the special municipalities can be more socialised with the Netherlands. It's about 30,000 inhabitants. In June, as an example, I mentioned the water supply network in the Netherlands. It doesn't matter in the Netherlands whether you live in Amsterdam on or on the Wadden Islands. We socialize the cost: we all pay it. The same applies to social security. For this reason, we would also like to receive an overview of the different benefits and the current financing of these social security and utilities by April 2022. As colleagues from VVD and D66 have already argued: in view of the enormous poverty, we also advocate an increase in benefits and the minimum wage. We'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The CDA also believes that, similar to the corona aid, the BES islands should be included in the debate on energy prices. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the further diversification of the economy and becoming more self-sufficient. Which support schemes are eligible for start-ups? The CDA Group has been advocating the development of agriculture since 2017. We recently had a presentation from the University of Wageningen about this. In that presentation, the University indicated that four things are needed for each island: an integral freshwater plan, an agricultural development plan, a fisheries development plan and an agricultural education plan. Years ago DSM seduced young girls by having them make nail polish during a company visit. They liked that. "Well, then you have to come work with us," said DSM. Is the Secretary of State prepared to draw up an education plan so that the love of agriculture and self-sufficiency are given to the people there? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Bromet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to discuss four topics in three or four minutes. That's not much time, so I'm gonna start right away. We visited Bonaire this summer with a delegation. We've been there visiting people at home. Mrs. Chicken from the PvdA was just talking about it. That has made a big impression on me, because if you see what poverty people live in, you should be ashamed of yourself. A third of people live below the social minimum. There is expensive food, high rents and a high energy bill. The under stand is 30% to 40% of the statutory minimum wage. That's too little to live on. That is why I have tabled an amendment to increase the under stand to 70% of the statutory minimum wage, as is the case in the European Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then nature on Bonaire. We drove around with the delegation. It's really beautiful. It is one of Bonaire's attractive factors and an opportunity for tourism. At the same time, tourism is also a threat. We passed the salt mines. It was said by nature organisations that the expansion of villas is lurking there, even at the end of the concession. The question to the Secretary of State is: how are we going to prevent the rich from taking over there and, often without permission, building villas? A plan has been made for a new container port and a pier in protected nature to import fuel oil. Could this also happen in the Netherlands? Are there any alternatives? That is my question to the Secretary of State. There is a policy plan nature and environment for the Caribbean. This runs until 2030, but after 2024 there is almost no budget. How should this plan be implemented? How's that plan coming along? Any results? Mr. Chairman. A report has recently been issued by Amnesty on refugees in Curaçao. There are similar scenes as in Turkey. People are locked up, denied access to a lawyer or asylum procedure and are kept in prison until they sign for voluntary return. European Netherlands finances border control and detention. I ask the Secretary of State: can he stop the human rights violations facilitated by money from the Netherlands? Finally. The Ombudsman, whom we have also spoken about Caribbean Netherlands, said that students have problems enrolling for training in the Netherlands, because they do not have a BSN number. It seems to me a very simple and practical way to solve a lot of problems, so my question to the Secretary of State is whether he can arrange for people to get a bsn number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you. It's been three minutes anyway. Then Mr Cedar of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u27	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the Kingdom relations budget today. A budget is much more than just financial figures. It's a moral document. It describes what drives the cabinet deeply and what we as a country consider important. In the past six months I have been allowed to deal with the issue of Kingdom relations as a Member of Parliament. I have seen that many issues have been taken up, but I am also shocked, like other colleagues, at the still great differences within the Kingdom, between the European and Caribbean Netherlands and the other countries within the Kingdom. A few weeks ago, with a number of MPs on Bonaire, I was able to see for myself that there are still major challenges for Caribbean Dutch people in terms of living security. We were allowed to come home to a man who had to amputate his leg after a disease. This had an effect on his ability to still work and provide for his own maintenance. Fortunately, he still had his surroundings, the people and the neighborhood that supported him. That is a great strength of the islands, which we can learn a lot from here. But as the Secretary of State knows, the financial situation is getting very complicated for this man, because he can't go anymore. Mr. Chairman. I firmly believe that this period must be changed in terms of security of existence for the countries, but also for the BES islands. I therefore hope that we can tackle these challenges with a common vision, perseverance and urgency within the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I like to pick up the glove on a number of points. The first is security of life. It has been mentioned a number of times, also by Mrs Wuite. We need to raise the minimum wage and income. I therefore support the proposal that is coming to take a step now to ensure that people really do not fall below the lower limit. But I'm also concerned about other life costs, such as energy. The people on the islands have to deal with the crisis twice. First of all, they have to deal with the fact that last year's subsidies are going to fall, and on top of that there are the additional burdens that we are also facing here in the European Netherlands. What will the Secretary of State do to prevent this? I am looking for a proposal myself, but I also agree with a number of Members of Parliament. I really think that the Secretary of State should recognize this and I hope that he also indicates that there is a problem and that a solution is on the way. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the Youth Act. My predecessors have often worked hard for the position of children at the BES. I like picking up that glove, too. I think it would be very good if we had a youth law on the position of children in the BES islands, so that the rights of these children are properly defined and there is also a legal basis for the youth care tasks. When is this legislation due? I have another point concerning COHO and cooperation with other countries. Mutual trust within the Kingdom is not self-evident. We have to work hard on that every day. You will notice that there are still steps to be taken, for example when it comes to the dispute settlement. This is also the case in other cases. We also noted at the last IPKO, the Interparliamentary Kingdom consultation, that these steps should be taken. Mr. Chairman. I note some unrest in the BES islands with regard to COHO. This is unrest over autonomy, but also about the possible disruptive effect of overly rapid reforms, and if it is within the time frame as intended. They indicated that they could come up with a counter-proposal, in which reforms would continue, but they could also look at deadlines, which would alleviate the disruptive effects they envisage. I wonder if the Secretary of State could take a favourable look at that. Mr. Chairman. My final point is the fight against trafficking in human beings. It is a terrible injustice that also affects the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. These include Venezuelan refugees who end up in forced prostitution, or migrant workers who are victims of labour exploitation. We have an important weapon in the fight against trafficking in human beings in the European Netherlands with a National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking. I understand this is a matter of national jurisdiction. However, at the BES too, the National Rapporteur is not allowed to report legally, whereas the American reports on trafficking in human beings repeatedly point out this, and the Netherlands itself also points out that there is no common inter-regional picture of the nature and extent of the problem of trafficking in human beings in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. I wonder if the Secretary of State is prepared to talk to the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, to see how the reporting and combating of trafficking in human beings at the BES and in the countries can be improved and how appropriate care can be provided to the victims. Mr. Chairman. I wait for the answer, but I also breed to come up with a proposal myself. I'd like to see the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u28	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Koekkoek from the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Demissionary Cabinet has prioritised a number of topics, including promoting the socio-economic structure, reform and development after COVID-19 and strengthening administrative and executive power. Volt encourages these priorities and is therefore happy to join in the efforts already made by my colleagues in this respect. Mr. Chairman. Today I would like to focus on the rule of law and in particular on the human rights situation in our Kingdom. We are pleased to see in the budget that strengthening the rule of law in Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin is a priority. In this respect, there is still much to gain, and the Netherlands is also responsible for this. Attention to the rule of law is needed for the safety and health of the population and for the alien whose rights are violated. Last Monday Amnesty International published the research report Still not safe, which concludes that Venezuelan refugees do not receive adequate protection in Curaçao. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give a written response to this report, in particular to the recommendations contained in the report? Mr. Chairman. The protection procedure in Curaçao does not comply with Article 3 of the ECHR. As a result, obtaining legal aid for refugees is virtually impossible and refugees, including children, are either put into detention or returned without a valid procedure. We stress that the Netherlands does indeed play a role in the current policy on Curaçao. For example, substantial investments have been made in the Coast Guard and structural additional funds for border control are also made available through this budget. In this context, we would like to ask the Secretary of State how and where the contributions from Kingdom relations can be found in the budgets of Defence and Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. If you offer support, you can also guarantee it. We therefore ask the Secretary of State the following questions. What guarantees are there for protecting human rights in support of Curaçao and the refugee problem? How does the Secretary of State and other countries of the Kingdom work on an asylum procedure that does comply with international and humanitarian standards? How will the Secretary of State engage in these standards in the forthcoming periodic consultations on the implementation of human rights conventions? I refer in particular to the guarantee of legal aid, the reduction of unlawful detention and the return of refugees without a valid procedure. Is the Secretary of State prepared to support Curaçao in setting up a system for affordable and, where necessary, free legal assistance for foreigners? And how will the Secretary of State release funds for humanitarian aid organisations? Finally, Mr President. According to Volt, human rights work this way: if you become nonchalant with one group, you will eventually become nonchalant with all groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you. Then Mr Eppink of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u31	Mr. Chairman. Not only the European but also the Caribbean part of our Kingdom has suffered from the coronapandemic. The islands are largely dependent on tourism. During the lockdowns there were no tourists and there were no income either. The corona pandemic came on top of a situation that wasn't thriving. Because of the problems in the neighbouring Venezuela, trade with that country dried up, the refinery on Curaçao worked on a low pitch and the renovated refinery in Aruba was not reopened. Nor did it help to diversify the economies. Prime Minister Rutte, who visited the West............................................................................................................................................................. The idea is beautiful, of course, but apparently not much has come of it. The idea of conquering the market in Latin America together is fine, but the practice is often uncomfortable. The enthusiasm of Dutch firms turned out to be lukewarm and the political will lean. If the islands do not become economically viable, it remains a question of matching both the BES islands and the autonomous islands of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. The fact that we support each other in times of need is, of course, fine, but not on a permanent basis. The second point I would like to raise is the dispute over the Committee on Disputes. It sounds nice, a dispute over the Disputes Committee. That ping-pong game has to end after more than ten years. In fact, the disputes continue in the Disputes Committee. During the recent Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation in Bonaire, it was agreed that the Autonomous Countries should come forward with a counter-proposal for the Kingdom's Disputes Act. On the basis of the forthcoming proposal, a compromise will have to be reached on both sides. I consider an independent Disputes Commission to be very important. It would significantly reduce the mutual sense of colonialism in the autonomous countries. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with the wish that the historical ties between the Netherlands and the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom will be preserved. I know that this is also the express wish of the BES islands, as well as of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. Let us help them and make them economically viable. That is the best guarantee for maintaining our special bond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you. Then Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u33	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a 'bon slide' to anyone who follows this debate from the islands. For there are 150 of us here not only the representatives of the people of the European Netherlands, but also the representatives of the people of the Caribbean Netherlands and the legislators on behalf of the inhabitants of the autonomous countries within our Kingdom. On 10 October 2010, the relations within our Kingdom changed dramatically. The result: after eleven years of autonomy for the CAS islands and special municipality status for the BES islands, there is still harsh poverty for the Caribbean inhabitants of our Kingdom. If this situation had occurred in suits Assen or Groningen, we would have discussed 30 plans of approach with each other and we would have solved the problem a long time ago. Despite all the motions put forward here in the Chamber and all the shocking reports by the Ombudsman on the state in which children and the elderly reside, 30% of the inhabitants of the islands of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba live in poverty. This year, the Rutte cabinet's approach has even led to an increase in households living below the poverty line. Even the autonomous countries do not emerge from the dance. On each island, almost 50% of the inhabitants live below the poverty line. That's unbelievable, but unfortunately true. It is the harsh reality within our kingdom. Children are forced to steal. Sons are forced into crime. Daughters out of desperation seek the solution in the escort world. In the European Netherlands, we would not accept that. Mr. Chairman. The inhabitants of the islands are treated as second-class citizens. The emergency situation, the harsh conditions and the silent social and financial crisis are too often dismissed as bureaucratic impossible to resolve and as things that need more time. I wonder how many years before the permanent burden on the islands becomes affordable and the inhabitants are entitled to a social minimum. I'd like to hear a response. How many more years before the corruption behind the scenes, which directly affects the destruction of the social domain, is tackled hard? How many years before structural investments are made in island children so that they can study without worries and build a future? How many years before we see Caribbean-Dutch citizens as fully-fledged Dutch people entitled to the same quality of life as we have here in the European Netherlands? I'd like a response from the governor. Mr. Chairman. Last year, the government proposed purchasing power measures for the BES islands. But we're getting signals that there's very little of this going on. Can the Secretary of State indicate why they are so difficult to get off the ground? Mr. Chairman. Then there's another point: colonial thought. I've talked about that before here in the Chamber. This cabinet has violated the autonomy of the countries by means of the draft law on the Caribbean for reform and development. This is also confirmed by the Council of State. This cabinet has given 470 million to the World Bank for the reconstruction of Saint Martin. Far too little of that has been done, due to the absence of assistance. The inhabitants of Sint-Maarten still live in harsh conditions, with fallen roofs, while the employees of the World Bank who are in charge of implementing them are paid out of the fund. This cabinet set aside the administration of Sint-Eustatius in 2018 without apologizing. Even though elections were held last year, the Netherlands still holds the board. Can the Secretary of State indicate when the end date of the Dutch intervention will come into view? Mr. Chairman. Those who listen to this debate, those who feel the despair of the inhabitants of the islands and those who follow it for a sign of hope and reasonableness, I say: dios bendishona bo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u34	We're gonna subtitle it. Thank you. Mrs van der Plas is the next speaker, but I do not see her. I shall therefore give the floor to the last speaker from the Chamber. That's Mrs Simons from the BET1 group. I note that this debate was scheduled until 1.45 p.m. today, but we finished a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to begin with my loving congratulations to Mrs. Wuite. Thank you for a wonderful maiden speech. It is very nice to see that there are voices in this debate with lived experience from the Caribbean perspective. I'm very happy about that. It has been 226 years since a man stood up in the then colony of our Kingdom, Curaçao. It was a black man. He was enslaved and deprived of his humanity. He was like nothing more than merchandise and possessions employed, exploited and mistreated. However, the man was also smart, combative and intelligent. He was, despite his chains, a man of dreams and ideals. He was a man who heard about the American and French revolutions and about equality before the law. He had dreams and ideals that the Netherlands didn't have in mind at the time. And so he got up. His name was Tula. Tula was a black resistance fighter and resistance hero from Dutch history, who stood up against slavery, against the inhuman abuse of slaves and against the lack of freedom to which they were forced. His name and legacy still live on Curaçao, but here in the Netherlands few people know that the struggle for freedom and humanity has been part of Dutch black history for centuries. Mr. Chairman. I don't share this history because it's a nice way to make everyone feel guilty about this. No, I share this history because it's our history. Our Dutch history. It's a shame we don't know those pieces of history and we don't grow up with them. In fact, it's bad that they're being shoved under the carpet, concealed and actively excluded from our education. Not only do we lose an archive of stories about leadership, black leadership, talent and resistance, but we also lose the collective memory of what we have already endured as a society, where we come from with each other and how that history continues to colour our present. Because Tula didn't just fight for an end to the abuse. He fought for freedom, for dignity and for equality. For a casual sin there is poverty, hunger or fear. Tula wanted no more than another, but certainly no less. His struggle for freedom was crushed with brutal violence and torture, but his struggle for a dignified existence without compulsion seems to remain unabatedly important within our Kingdom, and certainly here in this committee. It's exactly this committee where our colonial heritage comes to life. After all, the basis of the relationship between the European Netherlands and the Caribbean Netherlands is inevitable and logically 400 years of slavery, colonialism and coercion. Despite the fact that the Netherlands insists that this history is far behind us, slavery was abolished only 148 years ago. That history is about family members we've known. About intergenerational suffering, which is tangible in the present. About mental and physical recovery, which is still taking place, and about prejudice that continues to determine your chances in life. Colonialism is not something that happened long ago. In fact, sometimes I still taste it and sometimes I hear it in the words that some Members of Parliament speak here. The colonial rule lies before Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten only eleven years behind them. I have to laugh a little when I hear MPs talking about: it's time to grow up. You'd scare the hell out of yourself if a two-month-old baby suddenly stood up and put his teeth in an apple. Well! Annoying news; I see it to some. These countries have only had a decade as independent countries in this Kingdom and only a decade in which they have been able to shape their rule of law, their governance and their leadership. They can only do so according to the example they have been left behind. These countries are shaped by our shared history and have only that to build on. In other words: if you leave a country in ruins, it will remain in ruins for a while. Bonaire, Statia and Saba are still part of this Kingdom, as special municipalities, public bodies or whatever names we may give to conceal reality. The Netherlands still has colonies on the other side of the world, has exploited the islands for centuries and forced pedigree trees to a part of the world where their roots were not located, but where they still had to get a foothold. In that sense, it is only logical that you then take responsibility for the healthy flowering of what you have sown. Mr. Chairman. Slavery and colonialism continue to live through our reality, colour our relationships and still determine our starting points. They leave traces in the power relationship between the European and Caribbean Netherlands, a relationship in which The Hague still determines the agenda. How striking that we are again talking about these Kingdoms without actual representation from those parts being present in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u36	A question from Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u37	I was on Bonaire for the first time in my life this summer, or even outside Europe. What struck me in the conversations I had with the people there was that on the one hand there was an urge for independence and on the other hand there was also a great dependence on the Netherlands. I get that, but I've been thinking all these months after, how can you change this? I wonder what Mrs Simons thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u38	I thank Mrs Bromet for this question. It is a genuine question that is very much at the heart of the challenges ahead. The comparison with family and children is often made here. Growing up is a process. Every parent knows that letting go of your children begins the moment they are born and every parent also knows how much it hurts, because you want to do everything you can to protect that child and to give it everything that can make it who you think it must be or may be. The reality is that children have their own identity. What they need most of all is the space to discover that own identity. Teach kids how to walk by falling and then getting up. They learn that they shouldn't put their hand on a hot stove by trying it once and then finding out that's not such a good idea at all. If we realise that the real independence for some of these Dutch Kingdoms is only ten years old, then we cannot expect them to pick up the gauntlet in order to achieve that independence. The former colonizer must give them room to grow up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u39	Just like with parenting I have four kids myself It is a constant search for where you set boundaries and where you act stimulating. I understand that there is no ready answer, but I would also like to say to the people there: it is a quest and we must make it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you. I would like to thank Mrs Bromet for this sincere contribution. It is indeed a quest, but we can only accomplish that search together if we do so from the point of view of equivalence. I think that the tone I hear in this house from time to time is still very much based on: we know how to do it and they have to do it the way we think it is good for them. That is an inequality, which, although it has an explainable root, we should say goodbye to, I think, because it is not the way. Again, I don't think you can expect a country to have the key to the challenges they face out of nowhere. That also colors the perspective with which they look at themselves and their own identity. It is indeed a quest and I am glad that Mrs Bromet sees it that way. That creates very good prospects for the work that we can do together in this committee. So slavery and colonialism are still living through our reality. They're still coloring our relationships and, as I said, they're also determining our starting points. They leave their mark in the relationship of power between the Netherlands and the Caribbean. This is a relationship which we still think should be decided on, and which, in fact, allows the islands to be self-governed with little say. Can we actually talk about equivalence if decision-making is tolerated only on our terms? Can we talk about freedom if we consider autonomy to be something to be earned? Take, for example, liquidity support and COHO. It is emergency aid to survive the corona crisis, not to push the population further into poverty and to continue to provide the most basic necessities. For example, liquidity support is necessary for the cost of humanitarian needs. The Red Cross has provided at least a quarter of the population with food packages of these funds. A quarter! That is how painful poverty is in the Caribbean Netherlands. And that aid is no longer possible when liquidity aid is stopped; these funds are therefore necessary. But despite the necessity, The Hague thinks it was enough. It'll have to end. And even more fundamentally, the islands had to meet our conditions first in order to earn that emergency support. But what does control mean if, in practical terms, you have no choice but to agree to the demands that The Hague makes to you? Can we talk about equivalence if we tolerate decision-making only on our terms? Can we talk about freedom if we consider autonomy as a earning model? I read several times throughout the budget that the Netherlands supports the islands in building governance capacity. My question is: what does this support mean? Do we talk about incidental funds, loans or personnel? Or are we talking about structural training, schools and deepening the administrative knowledge of the capable officials on the islands, and providing technical support, rather than blaming them for not knowing what they never learned? Because if that is not the case here, then it is downright hypocritical to put the limited administrative capacity in the hands of the islands themselves. After all, can we talk about control if you have taken away a people's strength for centuries, and then refuse to restore it in full glory? And in the context of an equal relationship between there and here, I ask: are the islands themselves actually asked about their priorities? And have these needs been reflected in the current budget? If not, what does that say about the value we give to the wishes and knowledge of the Caribbean Netherlands itself? Because when I listen to the different rulers of the islands, there are quite different priorities. I have heard, for example, about the desired tax reforms. We think they are very important, but so do they. So we don't even have to impose those reforms on them, because they just want them on their own. I hear about a reference social minimum, which covers the real necessary cost of living. It is a shame that people, even in our country, have to live so far below the minimum standard of living. But where can I find that in the budget? I didn't see it. The argument that there is no cover does not, as far as we are concerned, cut wood. Because if, during the APB, the budget could suddenly be opened up and if, for example, energy poverty can be combated in the European Netherlands, then we can also do something for the other part of the Netherlands, if we think it is important. Is it realistic for countries to be able to repay liquidity support from April 2022, while the crisis is still in full swing and there is still a need for more support? Has any thought been given to the consequences of this? Does this not lead to a vicious circle in which paying off the loan reduces the funds available for the necessary reforms, preventing the reforms from being implemented, which in turn means that liquidity support is stopped and that in turn means that there are not enough funds to help the islands out of the crisis? Has any consideration been given to canceling the repayment obligation of the liquidity support? Finally, I would like to say once again that the aid the islands need from the European Netherlands is not in itself. This aid comes from a centuries-long history of colonialism, slavery and coercion. It comes from a history that is not far behind us, but that lives strong. This results in the responsibility for the Netherlands to ensure, for as long as necessary, the healthy flowering of what the Netherlands has sown. This can be done without the paternalism that has spread here today, but also in the budget, for example. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you. Mrs Simons was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Tomorrow night, we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State and his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u42	I'm suspending until 1:15 p.m. Then we'll talk about the abuses in gymnastics.
