ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Justice and Security. I would like to welcome the rulers: the Minister of Justice and Security, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and the Minister for Legal Protection. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with the Members to ask eight questions or to make comments in the direction of the directors, as was the case yesterday. An interruption is again a brief remark or question, without a comprehensive introduction. If we do it as we did yesterday, I think we can turn it into a very good, substantive debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u2	First of all, I give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security. He asked if he could keep his introduction in one piece. I think it is very good that we should give the Minister the opportunity to make his introduction in this way. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr President, thank you. This is the fifth year in which I discuss the budget of Justice and Security with your Chamber. This is happening in a troubled time, in which social relations have been under pressure for some time. The riots in Rotterdam and in other cities are still very fresh in our memory. I'm gonna think about that later. If it is uncomfortable in society, we as a government have to keep our own peace more than ever before. It is our job not to overlook anyone and to keep an eye on the individual in every decision we make. Because where the public interest prevails, the individual is often at risk. We have seen this in recent years at the Groningen earthquake damage, but also in the supplemental affair. Everything we discuss during this budget debate on Justice and Security is the crux of the matter. We must always seek a good balance between the general interest and the individual position. That was also my priority when I took up office as a minister just over four years ago: to provide good institutions and systems to be able to take into account every individual. It is therefore a person with confused behavior, a farmer threatened by criminals or a police officer with PTSD. For them too, our institutions must function. That is a characteristic of our rule of law. We know that doesn't always go well. Then you need a government that dares admit that it has gone wrong and helps the oppressed individual to rise up. Someone who always stood up for the individual in need was Peter R. de Vries. The murder of him is a shocking murder of a well-known personality, but also of a father and a lover. But it is also an attack on the struggle for the individual. Let's get that working out for us. Mr. Chairman. I have been able to meet Peter R. de Vries in his struggle for two individuals over the past few years.That was something Peter often did; that we know two individuals in the tribulation: Herman du Bois and Wilco Viets. In the Putten murder case, as you remember, things went very wrong. ...It is time for us to do full justice to the suffering done to these two men and their families. They were in prison for seven years. It was not until 2002 that they were still acquitted by the Supreme Court after revision. Their innocence was proven. Later another perp was arrested, so you can remember. If that is established, then it is the responsibility of the government to remove all harmful consequences. ... Mr. Chairman. Du Bois and Viets may have received financial satisfaction but never a moral one. Public apologies have never been made, and that has hurt them. Unintentional distress has been caused. We... I'm quiet about it because I really want to think about it. We left those men and their families in the cold and we should have apologized earlier. I really value doing that in your Chamber today, Mr. President. On behalf of the entire cabinet, we apologize to Herman and Wilco. But it's not over, because I read a nasty article in the Volkskrant years ago before I was a minister about how they're still being looked at in the neck by some people. And that's not fair. They need to get back on their feet. Everyone, not just me, but all of us should give them that chance. I say to Herman and Wilco: I'm sorry. That is what a rule of law is; that you bow deeply. That's what Justice and Security stands for. In addition to all the things that we rightly said with each other yesterday about rioters, about lick-by-lick, about approach and also about giving opportunities to disadvantaged young people and all those things, we must also dare to say: we have failed that individual. Without security for the individual, there is no justice for the public interest. Let's keep that in mind. (NL) Mr President, this was the piece that I was pleased to present to you, and I fully understand that I am now being buried under the interruptions, but I thought it important to put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman, then we go from the individual to the common good. A very important aspect of this general interest is national security. Actually, I'd like to start with that today. I will report it once in a while when I have heard a specific Member of Parliament ask a question about it and I will come up with some sort of collection of individual questions afterwards. A secure society is preparing for threats and crises. Everyone has a part to play in that. Citizens, businesses and governments must work together to ensure good resilience against terrorist, economic and certainly digital security threats. Since the beginning of 2020, we have known that a fourth belongs in this list, and that is the threat of a health crisis. Corona is the biggest crisis that has happened to us in recent history and is still in the grip of the Netherlands. Where the consequences are very clear to national security, the efforts of a small group of people to get into that crisis to disrupt society.... we see that when spreading online fake news and we also saw it last Friday and then on weekends in Rotterdam and other cities... by using extreme violence against police officers but also firemen, ME's and ambulance personnel, who simply use targeted violence against them. I'm talking about throwing rocks and explosives. It says in my text: fireworks with the power of explosives. But I don't want to say that, because it's just explosives they throw at people who work every day for our society. Disgusting! I can't put it any other way. On Saturday I spoke to the people who stood there, some with 10, 20 years of experience, gnarly types of them if I may describe them as 30, 35 years on the counter, who said: I've never seen this before. Yes, the corona measures that we have to take to keep the virus in some kind of hold are unlocking a lot in society, but violence really is never the answer. It's nowhere near it. It is very important that we continue to discuss with each other and, if necessary, hold a strong debate, in which there can certainly be firm statements from time to time, but intimidation and violence have nothing to do with that. Demonstrating is a great right, but here the demonstration was used as a cover for committing targeted violence. The threshold for using force seems to be lower and lower. In addition to last weekend's riots, we have been seeing excessive violence around football matches for weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u5	I also asked the Minister in my speech where there is the big difference between a housing protest in Rotterdam a few weeks ago, where peaceful protesters were confronted with preemptive police violence on the basis of rumors, and the riots to which the Minister has just referred. It seems like the police didn't have any indication that things could get out of hand, especially to this extent. I'm dying to know where to look for that discrepancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u6	The demonstration I mention for convenience as the housing protest in Rotterdam was an ordinary demonstration around which it came to incidents at some point. That's being evaluated. It is primarily up to the local triangle to evaluate that and discuss it with the city council. This is how it is divided in the Netherlands. About the demonstration, about last Friday's violent assault, I've already indicated that there's going to be a state detective investigation. That has to do with the use of firearms. That will certainly be considered. I wrote to the Chamber earlier that I am in favour of the police being informed very well, but also looking at what is happening on the Internet and where things can happen and how it could have happened so that this demonstration, the outbreak of violence last Friday, could have happened. We need to take a good look at that. I have heard from those concerned that it has just happened very quickly that organized groups have come together, which are, by the way, separate from each other. I would like to stress that it is true that there is also an evaluation of exactly what happened in the housing protest. We'll get back to that. So it will be evaluated first in the triangle, but I will ask the triangle to share that evaluation with your Chamber via a letter from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u7	I am, of course, very pleased that this evaluation will be shared with the Chamber, as I think it should be and is customary. The problem is, however, that statements were made by the police and by this minister before that evaluation was carried out or concluded. I therefore think that it is justified to ask for this further. Many people at home, especially those traumatized by the police's actions during that protest and other peaceful demonstrations, sit with open mouths and amazement at last weekend's violence, but also at unequal treatment in their eyes. I would very much like to know, without referring to the city council of Rotterdam, at what point in time a police force may or may not engage in preventive violence. The difference between the two is so incredibly big. We have received signals that something might happen in Rotterdam...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u9	... at the housing protest. And a few weeks ago, half the city just burns down. We just really need something for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u10	The complex thing is that Mrs Simons must also realise that if we are going to investigate and evaluate this, we really must let that research do its job and not come to conclusions now. That lies primarily with the municipal triangle, because that is how we divided it in the Netherlands. So we cannot compare these two events with each other. I think I can emphasise once again that in what happened last Friday, the perpetrators of violence simply used it as a cover. It was nothing but ordinary assault. Mr. Chairman. I said the threshold for using force seems to be lower and lower. We also see it in the excessive violence surrounding football matches. In all these things, of course, the increasing polarization plays a role. All the signals and investigations show that society is a wretched place. This is certainly a result of the increasingly uninhibited expressions and sedition on social media and, of course, the tensions that corona has caused in an embedded society have also been a driving force. But at some points, it does run out of spigates. It's getting easier and easier to play on the person. As far as I am concerned, I am quoting a number of scandalous examples of the past year. I am thinking of a journalist who is being pushed into the ditch by a shovel in Lunteren by car. I'm thinking of an OMT member who's been visited and threatened at home. I'm thinking of a mayor who detonated an explosive device on his front door. I am thinking of a Member of Parliament who has been chased in the streets in a very nasty, aggressive way. And I'm thinking Feyenoord Director Koevermans, who, after a serious threat, was forced to resign. The sad thing is that I can also switch within these five categories, because there was also a journalist who got explosives through his mailbox in Groningen. There are OMT members who are being chased when they get on the bike. So there's really something really wrong here. Of course we have to say on the one hand, I was pleased to hear from many of you yesterday that we are not going to accept that and we are going to take it hard. Then you will hear me in letters and on TV talk about speedy justice, heavy penalties and compensation for all damage. You can see that these are not just words. That's what got caught up in the first place. I'm gonna say it's gonna come back a few times... that I got a report back from Mayor Jorritsma from those riots in Eindhoven. He deserves credit for that, too. 110 people have been arrested and 110 quick justice has been applied. There were quite a few unconditional custodial sentences and a lot of damages. That is all very well, but we must also ask ourselves what kind of society we have come into. The day before yesterday I heard that one of the arrested rioters in court last weekend said: but I am not that kind of person! Then I think: yes, but that's not how it works. You can't take part in riots and say "yes, but I wasn't myself" afterwards and try to condone your behavior. You have to realize in advance what the consequences of your behavior are and you have to think in advance who you want to be. That's what it's all about. Meanwhile, we are in this health crisis, with all these consequences, and social displeasure comes down to the broad shoulders of police, ME, boas, KMar, firefighters and other aid workers. I would like to mention them explicitly once again, because it is not possible for them to harden occasionally, with citizens or citizens; at least people in the street who spit in the face or beat them with an iron rod. It's just really unbearable and it's not part of our society. Mr. Chairman. Those people's tasks have increased considerably since the first corona contamination on 27 February 2020 and the regular work continues. That's really worth a big compliment. I also heard yesterday from a number of you how they have worked continuously over the past year. I am really happy that the Hermans motion allows us to invest 200 million extra in, among other things, district agents and more boas, so that they can do their job even better. They do so for our safety, and that is a prerequisite for a viable society, the basis for healthy economic development and the foundation of the future of our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u11	I heard the Minister give a whole list, with all things expressing polarization, if I have understood him correctly. That was an impressive category. He also mentioned, for example, the pursuit of a Member of Parliament. It will certainly not have been on purpose, but does this list at least not include the fact that there is a Member of Parliament in our midst, my group chairman, who has had to be protected for 17 years because he has to fear for his life? That seems to me to be of an even larger category than MPs being chased.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u12	I was talking about a number of cases from the past year. That's why I didn't mention this. But I think it is very good that Mr Markuszower points this out. For the fact that we have a representative in our midst who has had to live his life for seventeen years in a total restriction is an incredibly bad thing. The fact that this is obviously necessary shows a shortage in our society. Mr Markuszower knows that I always care about the fate of that Member of Parliament, even in the sense that I am involved. That is, of course, also an important point: that we remain involved. But that might be something more for the SZW budget. Mr. Chairman. Now, when I see that the security of police officers, boas and other aid workers is at stake because they are being patronized and spit on or intimidated and threatened by what I call "keyboard heroes," I have only one reaction: to really tackle it, just go ahead with it. I already told you. As I said on request, I believe, of course, that we must ensure that young people do not fall into the wrong path in their youth. We need to get there as soon as possible, and we need to offer opportunities. We will come to that later in the context of the prevention funds. But one thing: for me, it is that, if you cross that line, you're over that too. Then you'll just be in criminal law and you'll have to compensate for all the damage you've caused. You've crossed a line. You obviously wondered too late what kind of person you want to be and whether you are participating in destroying society, even if it is very difficult in that society. Mr. Chairman. By behaviors that are crossed, I mean both offline and online. Then I would like to come to this point, which is that it is very simple: the standards that apply offline must also apply online. I remain committed to calling on the companies that have a good business on the Internet in the form of provision, social media, or other things, to set up these standards with us. Mr. Chairman. In order to reduce the number of incidents against aid workers, in September 2019 I created the task force for violence against aid workers. In doing so, I want to come up with a long-term approach to giving those aid workers the protection they deserve. I also want to raise awareness in society, so that people, before they go out on the street to find a stone, ask themselves: who do I want to be, and how do I want to be in relation to the police officer or the fire department? Because it's just crazy to send out the most horrible texts from behind a computer, which you wouldn't even think about calling them out on the street. Let's be clear about that, too. You would never express those threats sent to people via Instagram just here, in a pub, or anywhere? Tackling that cowardice really shouldn't be allowed to compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u13	There is an interruption by Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u14	It is in society for many people a thorn in the eye that you can fairly anonymously, quite easily in one place, threaten others. I get those messages all the time. You can't do much about that either. Now the minister says, "I'm talking to providers." I assume it's about Instagram, Facebook, Google and possibly other providers. Isn't that too skinny? So what exactly does the Minister intend to achieve in conversation with these providers, so that this will decrease and become a thing of the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u15	It is to be praised in Mr Azarkan that he always puts every word straight on a gold dish and may be concerned, as we discussed it here last in a Corona debate, that I have set up a nice support group, but it is not. I have already started working on initiatives on terrorist online content right at the start of my presidency. This is also happening at European level. In the meantime, under the inspiring leadership of the previous terrorism coordinator, Mr Gilles de Kerchove, real progress has been made. I also immediately got to work on this issue, which is not the subject we are about to discuss, namely those threats and the like, by tackling another horrific thing, which I will say a little bit more about: child abuse online and everything around it. When I first started, I was really shocked that it had such a huge size. I also started working on the bill on doxing, and I have to admit that Mrs Michon, who is here, can add this to her record. In the demonstrations at the beginning of this year, we saw that the publication of personal data on individuals, in this case police officers, has gradually ended, just with the aim of triggering violence, threats and intimidation against those persons. So it also has to do with laws and regulations. But to entrepreneurs who run a business offline in everyday life, so I also mentioned that as well. We also say: it can't be true that you sell things in your business or allow things that we find against the law? Then we should also discuss this with those online entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u16	I think it is good and commendable that the Minister has been committed to the issues he has mentioned. The Minister sought much behind my remark. I would not want to accuse him of having a "talking group," if only because he has to speak to us many times. It's gonna take him enough time. But my call was pretty serious. I think we really have a big social problem with people who can easily express themselves. That could be huge for other people. And then someone says very easily "I didn't mean it like that" or "it went in a rush." I think you have to protect both society and the person themselves. That means you should also see if it should be anonymous on Instagram or Facebook. You could have a discussion about that with each other. In addition, you could say: it can no longer be the case that you can simply participate anonymously in all kinds of providers, which makes it very difficult to detect and find out. It lowers the threshold to send people all kinds of weird treats or threats. That's what my comment was about. Any of that in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u17	I would like to say this. Soon I will give you the bill for setting up an administrative authority that will focus entirely on online terrorist content and online child abuse in all forms. I think it should be a topic of conversation between your Chamber and my ministry whether you should extend that to such things as online hate speech, threats, intimidations and the like. In the meantime, you noticed last year that the Public Prosecutor's Office is very committed to tackling rabids and behaviors. It sounds a little sad that I have to say it here, but I'm pressing you all 150, but also your employees and others, to the heart: report those threats, even if you think "yes, but I get ten in one day" or something like that. Call that in. Your report and the cases the D.A. and the police detectives are actually being arrested. You can also see that these cases are getting the publicity. That's what I like about the media, too. As a result, it becomes clear that you cannot do this without penalty and that you simply do damage to people because of this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u18	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna move on to cybercrime, because if one type of crime has increased during the corona time, it's cybercrime. I've called that more often than not the new earning model of ordinary criminals. We really need to be aware that we have to smother that very much, because the computer has become so important in every life and so many things run through the digital. I mean with the computer, the cell phone and all the devices we use with each other. We really need to make it clear to everyone that scams from behind a computer screen cause just as much suffering and damage, and also make sure that people really connect with that in their sense of standard. In this digitized society, we must also give our children at a very young age: online is offline. When I was a minister, I visited Pretty Woman in Utrecht. I have spoken a great deal there with aid workers from young girls and women who had ended up in all sorts of horrible situations via digital equipment. Perhaps as a society we should say: we should help children much more in advance with these devices. Mr President, on that point, if you will. When I say that we need to make a big effort on cybercrime, of course I come across the capacity of the police. You can say: do the police have to do this? Some of you have rightly asked questions about the pressure on capacity, especially now that the police bear a heavier burden due to the growing social discontent. The officers in the base teams experience the pressure first, of course, but it is palpable throughout the police organisation. It is also not a small task to extend the overall capacity of the police during a period of high outflow of agents who have reached a well-earned pension. Mr Ephraim drew attention to the capacity problem of the GGP, and Mr Eerdmans and Mrs Den Haan on the gap that left the drain. That inflow and outflow are of course phased out. As a result, in the coming years, there will also be a balanced mix of experienced agents and young but well-trained agents. The quality of the Police Academy, strengthened by the renewal of basic police training, and the supervision in the Corps ensured a clear replacement. Ms. Helder expressed her concern about the shortened training of agents. Unfortunately, I do not like her; I think her voice may not have lasted forever after all. I don't share her concern. The training and resilience are still an essential part of the training, and the police academy and the corps monitor the progress of students, teachers and supervisors throughout the course. Once experience has been gained with the operation of the renewed basic police training and the first aspirants have been entered as staff members in the Corps, the Justice and Security Inspectorate is also asked how they assess and evaluate the quality of the renewed basic police training and its examination. So we keep our finger on the wrist. The renewed police education has also translated into education for police volunteers. Know that these are really a very important reinforcement of the police. I really want to dwell on the work that police volunteers do. As of 2022, new trained volunteers can also be brought in. Mrs Bikker's proposal to use the rock for this has no added value in so far as the training of volunteers also requires a place in the units, but I very much appreciate that consideration is given to how we can increase that capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u20	There is an interruption by Mr Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u21	I have greatly appreciated the introduction and the warm words for those who have been so afflicted by government intervention. I really appreciate that. We should do that more often. Then my question. The minister talks about the police and the problematic outflow rates and the influx. I find this answer typical of the Minister. I have also read a lot of written answers in which there is a lot of noise: you worry too much; things are going well. I ask the Minister to take note of the signals from practice, for example the alarm clock that police unions have sounded about police education. That is, of course, the basis. If we look at the current state of the police, where will we be in five years? Where are we in ten years? Look at the practice! See that there are too few teachers who are also paid too badly. See that there aren't enough rooms. See that there are two prospective police officers in a car who are completely against the rules by going to reports themselves. These are irresponsible situations. They're taking place right now. The Minister doesn't seem to know that practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u22	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u23	My question is whether the Minister is prepared to take note of this practice and not just to base himself on the paper reality, which always seems beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr Van Nispen and I have, of course, been speaking for more than four years now. He does me a little injustice, because he knows that I am now a national record holder in the number of working visits to the police. In these four years they have exceeded the 100. I do not do that to be in the country, but to really hear what is going on in practice and how certain things connect, for example how the police distribution centre connects with the police, but also how the academy connects with it. After a good time had passed before there was a new collective agreement, I decided in 2018 that I also informed your Chamber every three months to sit down with the unions, the corps leadership and my department to see how the agreements we made in the collective agreement and what else is on the agenda. We still do. I also discuss developments at the Police Academy. I think it is right for the unions to draw attention to this in a letter at the beginning of the budget debate. In fact, who am I to find any of that? But we're really talking a lot about that. I'm telling you, we're really on the table with the police academy. As you know, the police academy's budget is made up of funds that the academy receives from the police and from my ministry. That academy is also completely embedded in the police system. I say that because it is really part of the responsibility that the corps leadership feels at that point. The budget of the Police Academy has not been cut or cut in recent years either. At the end of 2017, I found that 17,000 agents would retire in the years 2019 to 2024. I would say quite honestly to Mrs Michon that that did surprise me at the time; afterward I should have known that, because 65 years earlier the baby tree was completely aside. At that time we really said: we must now anticipate a number of things. One of those things, which I'll come back to later, was that we had to raise funds for incidental side-influx and that kind of thing to fill in functions, at least where that was possible, with people who hadn't done the Police Academy. Another thing was the drastic expansion of the Police Academy. That's what we're committed to. Then I come to those practical situations, which indeed still need to be closely monitored. I can't go after cops every time they run into traffic or do anything else. That's very difficult for me. I don't know why they did that either. Maybe there's a justification for that. But I can assure you that we are on top, also from my department, of being properly sent to the academy to ensure that the numbers of graduating officers are well achieved and that it is also a high-quality education. Finally, I would like to point out that the police have been the second most popular government employer for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you. I would also like to ask the Minister to respond a little more compactly. That's what I'm asking the MPs. It's nice if we hold that same balance together. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u26	If you look at the figures, there has certainly been less money going to police education in recent times. I believe the Minister when he says he goes to work a lot. It's just that I don't hear much of it in this answer. I hear very different things. The Minister is actually saying quite passively that he is okay with the police unions coming up with a letter for budgetary treatment. Where's the urgency? 17,000 people are going out! You'll have to get the basics in order. Our police education is the basis. That's the police of the future. The promise was that education was shortened while maintaining quality. What we hear from practice is that concessions are made to quality and integrity and situations arise that are actually irresponsible. That's not just going into traffic for once. It goes much further. This is about people who simply cannot be properly received by the police base units in practice, because people are not there either. The specific question to the Minister is: where is the urgency? And what kind of police force do we have in about five or ten years if a third of the people are newly graduated police aspirants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u27	We have an excellent police force in a number of years. I've already said something about the equilibrium between young and old. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to my letter of 13 October 2021 on the implementation of the Hermans motion, including investment in police education. Thirdly, let me say honestly: I am therefore sitting at the table every few months with the police unions, apart from the fact that I also speak informally to some of the Presidents. That is right, because it has to be. This issue is also being discussed. I understand that it is all formulated very urgently. If it is so urgent, then after my letter of 13 October 2021, in which we are really announcing additional investments in police education, it would have been on the way to approach me directly first. I am sorry to say that here through the Chamber, but that is a bit of what happens in such a situation. I take it very seriously. That is why I say that it is fine that the letter is there, but it is not that it is not looked at at at all or that the urgency is not taken up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u28	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mr. Chairman. Although Mr Van Nispen is now at the end of his interruptions, I would like to say that the operational occupation, thanks to the involvement of the teachers at the Police College and the officers at the units, will be in real balance in a few years' time. In addition to replacing the police workers who have retired, we have finally expanded the police with the 2,400 FTE, which has been regulated by the previous cabinet for structural funding in recent years. Also 700 district agents are now joining thanks to the motion by name already mentioned several times. I think I have answered Mrs Palland's question on this. This is something that deserves to be said. Even if we have reached that 2,400 fte, choices will have to be made in the coming years. That's what Van Ginkel's report says. These are, for example, choices in operational strength versus non-operational strength. I'm really very firm on that with the corps leadership in good consultation. Then I'm going back to the subject of national security, because this was a sidestep. I'll come to the terrorist threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u30	Before you go there is an interruption by Mrs Simons, BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u31	I have every confidence that this minister will succeed in attracting new people to the force. That is not the biggest problem to date in terms of diversity and a safe environment within the national police force. My question is what the Minister is going to do to ensure any new diversity that will hopefully come in with these new people, so that we no longer see the image of a stabbing diverse influx when it comes to climbing up within the organisation. I would like to hear some more clarification from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u32	I'm gonna say that streamlined again. In 2020, we adopted a different approach to diversity policy, namely Police for All. We said we should do the bottom-up. Excuse me for anglicism, Mr. Chairman. It is precisely from the workplace that you need to ensure that diversity is accepted. What came up at the time of nasty statements in the app group in Rotterdam, of course, I also hated. But the good thing that came out of it was that I was sorry to mention it for a moment, at least that there was a very good, solid discussion, just bottom-up from the workplace. That's how we're working on it. Mrs Simons knows from previous committee debates that I think this is really an important priority in this modern society. She can continue to appeal to me at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u33	I would like to use this interruption not so much to ask a question, but to give an unsolicited but very valuable advice as far as I am concerned. Bottom-up alone isn't gonna work. It will work if we also pay attention to the people who have the power to make decisions and have the power to influence culture in such a way that this leads to improved behavior. I think it is very important to take a close look at this at the top of the organisation as well. What am I saying? This must be done at the top of the organisation, which is currently overcrowded by white men of a certain age. We need to ensure that diversity also finds a place there, so that we can fly it from two sides and be sure that diversity is also guaranteed in the middle. This is a free tip.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u34	And I've heard a very careful question mark behind it. I think that's a fair call. It shouldn't just be bottom-up; I get that, too. The good example must also come clearly from the organisation. And we can see that at least in the Police Academy, I can't ignore that; what can I say? Of course, 30 to 40 years ago was also much more one-sided in terms of people who went there, and of course that is reflected. But it is right that this point should be mentioned in this way; top-down should also be set a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u35	The Minister spoke one sentence about police volunteers. That was like a sentence that caused some disappointment to me. That's not the worst of it, but it's mainly that I'm concerned if we're going to get the number of police volunteers, which it's so badly needed that that's going to grow again, actually that should be 10% of operational strength in the next few years, so whether we're actually going to get that 5,000, and actually a little more, actually. The Minister says: I am trying to think along, precisely because the Police Academy is full of absorption capacity. Then I made another suggestion. The Minister says: I don't like it. But what is the Minister's point of view in order to ensure that we can also lay down this force, which exists in society, with the police, so that the police are strengthened?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u36	What I see most of all is, and we are now putting it on this point, that we are offering new police education to police volunteers at the various levels as soon as possible. Just for those MPs who might be asking about this: police volunteers can also follow various levels of police training. That is why I have, I almost want to say, chased after it that from 2022, so take it for 40 days, it will really be opened up to them. That is, I think, how we do them the most justice and also help the police the most for good volunteers. And Mrs Bikker really doesn't have to encourage me, let me say. As I have said, I have been allowed to go with police volunteers a number of times. The fact that we have that in the Netherlands, that these people want it so motivated, is only a blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u37	Now I have the opportunity and thank you for that... The directors have really sent the written answer to the Chamber on time, so I have been able to go through that. Thank you for that, also to all the people who, I think, worked very hard last night too, I say, of course, through the rulers. But actually, the Minister tells us again, and much better than it comes from paper, quite eloquence what was in part one of the answer. Part two of the reply I received in writing says precisely that absorption capacity, including the corps, will make it very complicated. So, in spite of the shared intentions, my concern is not gone, while I know that the people in the police volunteers say: we have our own escorts ready, people who can train. So I really want to encourage the Minister to get all the creativity out of the closet, just because this is a very nice way to strengthen the corps, and because part two of the answer doesn't quite reassure me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u38	Let me very... What do you call that... What do you call that again, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u39	Eloquent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u40	...defend directly at the MP. I actually wanted to say "right ahead"; literally translated from "straightforward." I admit that we are going to have another conversation with the police volunteer organisations to see what is offered by them as an alternative to those escorts. I am prepared to discuss this again, but I would prefer that these volunteers should be accompanied and integrated as much as possible, because that works very well with this reduced training by the units themselves, also for the reason that they will be very good, also quality. However, I would like to say that I would like to take a moment to see if there is anything else that can be done there. Mr. Chairman. Terrorist threats, national and international, are more complex and variable than they were a few years ago. This will soon be the subject of the debate with you in connection with the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism. Its extension is necessary in order to maintain the complex of measures against terrorism at a level. That threat I heard about yesterday, but it certainly hasn't been reduced. It is not the time to write off the instruments that have helped us in recent years. There are currently people in the Netherlands who radicalise or are highly radicalised and may pose a threat to national security. The jihadist movement in the Netherlands remains an important element. There have been several trials and arrests. On September 23rd, you saw an arrest of nine jihadists in Eindhoven. They are, I think, a clear proof of that. At present, there are no concrete indications that people in the Netherlands are preparing an attack, but that is conceivable. We're still on threat level three. I just want to say that again. This is also the case from the right-wing extremist angle. Extremely right-wing, and right-wing extremist movements and individuals, have been seeking to join current social themes and protests for years. Although they generally do not know how to bind many people to them, the last year around the coronaprotests a certain mixture of right-wing extremism and other manifestations of anti-government sentiments has arisen. I find that, like Mrs Van der Werf, more than worrying. We are also doing everything we can to get the people involved and to ensure that identified persons who pose a potential threat, including in this corner, can be included in the local PGA (personalised approach). In countering extremism, municipalities can apply for the reinforcement funds of the Empire to further strengthen that local approach as they see fit. I'm just gonna close this up. The NCTV and the Social Stability Expertise Unit of the Ministry of Social Security also support municipalities with advice on their policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u41	I'd like to ask one question about that. My motion was primarily intended for the following. There is, of course, a big difference between the well-known, existing threat of jihadism, one can often see in public space if something is going on and many municipalities already know what kind of structure they are building around it, and this right-wing extremistism, which appears in a relatively new way and which also affects relatively many smaller municipalities in the region. My motion also meant that they know how to find this money and that they can also be helped a little in how to deal with it and recognise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u42	Of course, we'll get on the motions. I think it is precisely from the NCTV and the expertise unit that it is important to support municipalities with advice on policy and the local approach. Indeed, small municipalities do not have the expertise and insight into this. We have to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u43	On this point, too, I have a question from my group. We are now awaiting the proposal on data processing. Can the Minister comment on what that means for dealing with right-wing extremists in our country by NCTV? What consequences does that have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u44	I am not going to repeat the entire title of the bill here, because then you are going to correct me that I am speaking for too long. That bill anchors certain analysis and coordination tasks of the NCTV. So it really is a question of giving these tasks a thorough legal basis. 'Cause we thought they were too shaky at some point. We really want to give them the necessary guarantees. Let me also say straight away: there was some misunderstanding recently about this in press publications. We had a first draft bill. It's been through, among other things, the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The criticism, or the qualifying "Whatever you want to call it" of the Dutch Data Protection Authority has now been included in the new version. The task of analysis is therefore to analyse and identify trends and phenomena in the fight against terrorism and the protection of national security, together with information-providing services. I would also like to mention the coordination task. This involves promoting cooperation between relevant public organisations, promoting information sharing where necessary in response to a specific event, and ensuring the evaluation of policies and measures taken. The starting point is that the processing of personal data is only to the extent necessary for the exercise of the tasks of this legislative proposal. On 9 November, the bill was sent to your Chamber, but your Chamber declared it controversial on 17 November. That means it's still at the moment. We have said ourselves, also in response to an opinion from the AP, that we are not going to do certain things at the moment, not even in that right-wing area. I understand that the introduction is a little long, Mr President, but I would like to explain it to everyone. So sorry, that's a little my schoolmaster-like attitude, chairman. So it means that, whether they are right-wing extremists, jihadists or other forms of extremists that we may have seen working on last Friday, we are no longer able to carry out that coordinating task. This also means, for example, that the NCTV is not so much about the person of the NCTV as about the institution with all its professionals and analysts. That is actually Mrs Van der Werf's point. If you're a small town if you're outside the G20, you'll soon be outside the G20, then you don't have enough human power or ability to put that down. So there's just a shortage right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u45	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u46	I'll do the next bit a little bit shorter. I now come to the digital threats. Cybercrime has two sides. We need to get cyber security in order. Citizens, businesses and governments should, very simply, contribute to it. It may be very basic, but just take care of your updates on your firewall and that sort of thing. Close your digital door, too. It's not that hard. We should all be aware of that. I am very curious to know who is going to get to his phone quickly in this room to change either the 0000 PIN or the 1234 PIN code. 'Cause we're way too easy to crack. Shall I take a break, Mr. Chairman? Then everyone can reset their phones. Okay, I'll keep going. When it comes to state threats, for example, to disrupt us digitally or if states are after our knowledge, it requires explicit specific expertise for specific situations. A structural approach has therefore also been developed for the telecoms sector with which we can best protect it. This is such a success that from next year onwards this approach will be extended to other vital processes, such as the energy sector. In order to further enhance our national cyberweasurability, we need to share threat information with parties for whom that is relevant. Knowledge exchange is really very necessary as a weapon against cybercriminals. There's a law change waiting to be able to share the threat information more widely. Ms Koekkoek referred to the Cyber Security Council's opinion to invest EUR 833 million in an integrated approach to cyber-weasurability. First of all, I would like to say that the opinion of the Cyber Security Council is really very valuable when it comes to the integrated Dutch cybersecurity strategy. You have indeed noticed that this amount does not return to JenV's budget. If you split it up, you can see that it wouldn't belong in part either. However, it is an advice to a next cabinet and it is also up to another cabinet to decide on a new cybersecurity and cybercrime approach and its funding. Through national security, I naturally come to the subject of undermining, because that has become, as far as I am concerned, also a matter of national security. With killing people who played a constitutional role, criminals signal that they believe to be untouchable, but you can also see that it is literally tearing up the institutions of our rule of law. Criminals show: we can hit anyone; lawyers, journalists, prominent Dutchmen, no one is safe from us. Organised crime has a society-destructive impact and it is palpable to our families. Criminals make residential areas unsafe with their drug labs and fire-threatening hemp farms. They recruit 10-year-old kids as a drug mule. Yesterday there was an interesting debate about number of pills, but criminals sell wrong ecstasy pills at festivals. They're dumping drug waste in the woods. They're threatening farmers in Brabant. They kill innocent people in broad daylight. In order to stop that, we need to include undermining crime on all sides. We must do so at all levels. I mean that there must be a coherent approach to prevention and repression, local and regional, national and international. I really think it is very important that the cabinet has decided to put a lot of extra money into it, because there is coherence between these matters. I see someone waiting at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u47	Perhaps it would be a good idea if you moved on to this topic first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u48	Before I give some examples of the approach, I would like to say a few words about the approach. In decades, the Netherlands has become an important producer country of cannabis and synthetic drugs and an important transit country for cocaine. In recent years we have also seen heroin laboratories come into being here and there and also crystalmeth laboratories. Last year I said in the budgetary procedure that they are becoming more and more frequent. Drug policy was previously strongly defined by terms such as "controlling and controlling." You must have noticed that my approach has been a different one for four years. It begins with the fact that we all have to realise that everyone can come into contact with the consequences of drug crime: a child in the schoolyard, a walker in a forest where drug waste has been dumped or a fruit grower who is being blackmailed or extorted to make his warehouse available. And of course there are the people who had to pay the highest price: the brother of star witness Nabil B., Derk Wiersum, Peter R. de Vries. But I would like to remind you of someone who nobody ever mentions anymore: a youth worker in Wittenburg, a 20-year-old boy who was the victim of a misdemeanor in the drug environment in January 2018. I dare say that more and more people realize it. I am pleased that more and more people who wanted to legalise hard drugs and who had an interesting beginning to plan for them will come back to that. It's a good case! On September 11, 2019, a week before the terrible murder of Derk Wiersum, I said in this Chamber: under my ministry we will never tolerate it. Under my ministry, the Netherlands will not become the drain of the world. Yesterday I heard a little debate about the amount of pills you should be able to bring to a festival. Zero as far as I'm concerned. Let's get that straight. Apart from this discussion, we risk becoming the drain of the world. For all countries that are members of the UN Drugs Agency in Vienna, hard drugs are still on the no-go list. It's re-established every two years. It's not just about the United States, because then I'll be sent that book of Narconomics again. Don't do that, because I've already got 20 copies. Russia, China, South America, Australia, all these countries say loud and clear: no hard drugs. What do you think? If Mexicans get the impression that things could get a little smoother around here, where are they going to settle down? Mr. Chairman. With this I have outlined the urgency of the fight against any form of undermining organised crime, drug crime. There's a lot of investment in that. I would like to thank your Chamber, because Members have made sure that extra money has been made available. Four years ago, we started with a fund of EUR 100 million. Now we are investing EUR 524 million, and EUR 434 million structurally, in a broad offensive. When I read in the news that the Netherlands is naive and that criminals have free play, I strongly contradict that. We're not naive. Criminals don't have a free hand here. We're not narcostat either. To the people who say that we are or that it is too late, I say: no, because then there was someone here with an exotic background in the sense of coming from a cocaine gang from some place. Then we wouldn't be in charge anymore. But we just have a democracy, where everyone just has their place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u49	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Simons van Bij1 if you don't mind, because I think she wanted to respond to something else. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u50	I have a bit of a problem with the statement that drug crime or a narco state automatically means that someone would stand at the minister's place with an 'exotic background'. I would like the Minister to tell me exactly what he means by that. In my opinion, in the case of Dutch drugs, we are generally talking about Dutch people. When we talk about the upper world that is at the service of that underworld and is causing undermining, I think we are just talking about Dutch notaries, lawyers and other facilities. So I would very much like to hear what the Minister means by that narco is equivalent to exotic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u51	That means exotic. That means that at some point you notice that in a democracy you no longer decide what happens. That's what I mean by that. That means that here just... Mrs Simons is right. Let me make one thing clear: the gangs we see are of all the origins we can imagine. I want to make no mistake about that. I would like to say very clearly: we in the Netherlands determine together what democracy is and what the rule of law is. We don't let gangs dictate the law. I think that's pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u52	And that makes it all the more incomprehensible that there is a Minister of Justice here who is setting up an association in the Chamber, and with that in the Netherlands, that once we talk about cross-border behaviour in relation to narcotics, our thoughts should go to someone we call "exotic." That's what I'm asking you about. Let me make no mistake about it; that is a racist connotation. I will repeat it again, because some people in the room had to 'cough', so maybe not everyone heard. It creates a racist connotation. That's what I'm asking the Minister about right now. Let's not pretend that drugs and drug crime are something from faraway countries. It is something that we experience and experience with each other here and that we seek solutions for together. The last thing we need is the illusion that it is far from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u53	I don't wake up that suggestion. We were talking about a narcostat. I referred to last year's budget. I pointed out at that time that the number of rolled-up crystalmethlabs where Mexican gangs played a role had increased enormously. That is what I am saying: we must not allow that to happen. At the moment when you and I are no longer able to address each other in this democracy, because there is someone here who represents such gangs, then we are completely wrong. This does not prevent the fact that the same is certainly the case with other gangs, no matter what angle or direction they come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u54	If we want to have a discussion with each other and not create the impression that this problem only manifests itself in people who carry something exotic with them, then it would be very good if the Minister did not create that association and put it here in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u55	Of course, I didn't wake up that association. That's not the point. What I find out is that despite what some people say, we don't go to a narcostate. That is only the moment when those Mexican drug gangs who come here with crystal meth are serving in the House of Representatives. We shouldn't let it get that far. The same goes for Brabant or I don't know what.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u57	The same goes for Brabantse or I don't know what.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u58	I have some interruptions. Firstly, Mr Van Nispen, then Mrs Kuik and then Mr Eerdmans. Mr. Eerdmans, you still want to respond to Mrs. Simons?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u59	I would like to reply to what Mrs Simons has to say here. She wants to make her racist song again, which had absolutely no basis in the remark of the... well, you're "coughing" through me, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u60	Well, well, well. Go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u61	This is what I'm talking about. Of course, there is also pale nose crime, if Mrs Simons is referring to this. Think of the ecstasy labs in the Netherlands. But we also have the heroin trade in the hands of the Turkish mob. We got the mocromafia. If we can't name all that next to each other... no one says it only has a tropical background. That's the kind of thing you always see appearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u62	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u63	We're talking about a whole palette. The Minister refers to the narcostate and to what forms it takes. But let's not put all kinds of things back under the carpet in this room that are just there. Indeed, Turkish mafia is also involved, and the mocromafia is a well-known phenomenon. I think we should underline all this and see what we can do about it. Let's not try to play hide-and-seek.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I'll see if the Minister will comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u65	It wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr. Van Nispen? No? Mrs. Kuik, CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u67	The Minister is right to point out that this drug crime affects everyone in our society. That's what that chain has to do with each other. I see that the Minister's answer indicates that there are no figures available on the exact number of fines for possession of hard drugs. There are municipalities that really want to do more on that, because everyone, including that user, is part of that link. Can the Minister indicate how he can help these municipalities to promote this in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u68	In the case of the 100 million we had at the time, we said to the municipalities and the regions: come forward with a proposal which you think can very probably be a successful intervention. We've had an independent jury, the Strategic Board Undermining, determine what the projects we need to be committed to. I think that's the best way to do it. Of course, that impartial jury must be an expert.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u69	That's good to hear. I also wonder if the Minister has any ideas on how to bring this social debate forward. We see, for example, in the smoke-free generation, that it helps hugely that society is involved and participates in a theme to prevent small children from starting smoking. I believe that this should also be done in the area of drugs and drug use, at least in the case of hard drug use. Does the Minister see any possibility of getting this social debate going as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u70	Well, I guess. I think that social discussion is already underway. This is due to the fact that, especially since last summer, more and more people have come to realize that this is no longer possible and that we are getting in the wrong grip of the undermining crime. And that starts with drug use. I said just now that we really need to prevent us from becoming the drain of the world, with gangs settling here because it's all much more banned elsewhere. That is my final argument, but also the health argument continues to play a role. We also see that the level of MDMA in ecstasy pills has increased in recent years. We see that pills are also offered that already present very serious health risks in advance. The annual National Drug Monitor of the Trimbos Institute and other institutes gives a very good picture of these health hazards, but we will have to work together with other departments on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u71	We share with the Minister that the drugs world and everything around it is extremely dangerous, but then it does not help if the Minister denies that we are already a narco state. Already in 2018, this Chamber received a report from its own police union, in which the detectives simply report to our House of Representatives: "The Netherlands is a narco state. A few years ago you had to pay €50,000 for a murder and nowadays it is €5,000." And that's probably even less now. Since that report, there have been liquidations, as the Minister himself recalled. The whole budget of Justice and Security is only a small part of what that drug world produces in the Netherlands and is being carried through by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u72	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u73	It's 20 billion on synthetic drugs alone. Can the minister just admit that we're a narcostate by now? And then I'd like to hear in the first answer. I have another question after that: how does the minister push that narcostate back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u74	No, I'm definitely not gonna admit that. I just indicated that we are not a narcostate. If there is also a debate immediately afterwards, then it might also be q.e.d. Because then we will see that this is simply a parliamentary democracy. And that's what it's gonna be, and that's what we're all gonna have to bet on. I understand that there are detectives who, in a transferable sense, say, "We're a narcostate." They are, of course, very much at the top of the problem. But in the real sense of the word, that is not the case. I've also explained the 13 billion before when people said, "What do you want with an extra 100 million when they make a lot of money?" We'll come back later to take it from you. But we already have a whole government structure. The police already have fast cars. The police have all this and that. So we are already very strong with the 13 billion a year and with very well-educated policemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u75	During the General Political Reviews, my group chairman called for the following. Let me read it out: "The government must promote the prosecution, detection and punishment of small quantities of hard drugs." Yesterday I heard Mr Kuik from the CDA argue for that too. In replying to the questions raised by my group chairman during the APB, the Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, said: yes, I actually think so myself. I'm not very good at math, but if you have the VVD, the CDA and the PVV, you're almost on a majority. Can the Minister today promise that he will instruct the D.A. to also have small quantities of hard drugs detected by the police, to impose penalties there and to stop testing that crap, so that our youth doesn't come into contact with it, we'll be boss again in our own country and we can get those drugs out of our streets?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u76	If I understood Mr Markuszower that way, he would want some kind of clue to the Public Prosecutor's Office, but of course you know the legal rules for that. Moreover, this Minister's view is that it may well be that there is a very broad desire from the Chamber for this, but I myself think that we should perhaps let go of the designation in the context of the separation of powers very slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u77	I'm not specifically talking about giving you a clue. I'm talking about us finding it as a room. We have a Minister of Justice and Security who says: we have a big problem with drugs. And the entire Chamber actually agrees with the Minister. What can you do about it? Then you can also say as a democracy: we are now also going to detect and punish small quantities of hard drugs. That is the position of the CDA Group. The VVD Prime Minister also says that's a good idea. During the General Political Reviews, the PVV started to get that on the agenda. Why don't we have a minister who says, "Okay, so many MPs think so, so we're just gonna do that. We are really going to detect and punish the use of small quantities of hard drugs"? What's so hard about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u78	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u79	Then we can have a formal discussion about 'instruction or not designation', but I would simply ask the Minister of Justice and Security: act against drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u80	I really understood the question as it was asked, and I answered it in the first instance. Let me say this: the absolute priority is the fight against drug trafficking, drug production and all the crime surrounding it. I do not have to say that I am an opponent of everything that is hard drugs and their use. I also understand very well that the parties say: we think that you should also take a harder approach to this use. But if we say that we are going to make this a real priority in policy, then we really need to talk about it first in this house. 'Cause that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u81	Thank you. I see two members at the interrupting microphone. I think Mr Van der Staaij was a little earlier. First, Mr Van der Staaij and then Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u82	In any case, on behalf of the SGP, I would like to endorse the plea that small quantities of hard drugs should not be tolerated. My question to the Minister is another one. He has rightly shown that he is serious, and has also been in recent years, with the fight against drug crime and undermining. But from many studies it emerged that the real problem is the lack of a long-term approach. My question to the Minister is therefore of a perceptive nature. What is it really going to take to get there, to take further steps and to make a breakthrough in this fight?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u83	You're damn right I didn't. The scientific report on 25 years of drug approach says that from 2017 onwards, I do not deserve authorship, but the parties that have concluded the government agreement are finally finding a clearly structured one way in the drug approach and the crime approach. That's condition one. Condition two is indeed the long term as such. I've been saying, people, this is gonna take ten, 15 years. Three is, take everything away. That must be in our legislation, not only the money laundering legislation, but also the legislation on data sharing between organisations, so that you can move forward with all the legal safeguards that exist. So it's about taking everything down to the last penny. We have to invest very much in that. We must continue to invest very much in the roll-up of criminal partnerships. And the third is really prevention, which starts with children aged 8 years. I'm going to say something about that later. Then I am really talking about projects aimed at preventing children who are vulnerable to this, because of all kinds of circumstances, going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u84	I think I recall from the annual report of the Financial Intelligence Unit that huge sums of money are being made from the import and transit of cocaine and that 85% of these amounts are actually being earned from the cocaine imported through exotic fruit, mainly through the port of Rotterdam. You'd say, if we already know that, isn't there anything we can do to reduce and combat that? That may be a rather simple question, but when I read it, I had to think about it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u85	It is really as if Mr Ephraim has a telepathic or other gift, because I am just getting to the point that these drugs enter our country mainly through seaports and airports. There have indeed been record catches in the port, between the frying fat and the pineapples. Besides, I don't know what those two were doing together, but that aside. We must join hands against the undermining, including at Schiphol Airport. Our ports and other logistics hubs must become safer. Mr Ephraim really has an essential point there. That's why people who work at Schiphol Airport with the Strong Airport campaign are now also being taught how to prevent criminals trying to abuse their activities behind customs gates. I encourage every Member of Parliament to go to Schiphol once and see what opportunities there are for trying to exploit the facilities. In this way, too, we are committed to making people resilient. By understanding how the criminals work and by looking at suspicious signals and strange behavior, the workers will also see: wait, I'm in a certain situation now and I shouldn't, because I'm going to be blackmailable or whatever. I have also made money available for this in other places, for example in Vlissingen and Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u86	The location climate for drug criminals is quite favourable when you look at logistics, political stability and so on. There may also be a somewhat low chance of getting caught and too low penalties. What is the Minister's view of higher penalties, which is, of course, a traditional question in this kind of debate, especially against minimum penalties for certain crimes that undermine the rule of law and our security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u87	I'm not into minimum punishment. I believe that, in a rule of law, we should allow the judge to be the judge who, on the basis of all the circumstances of the case, assesses what is appropriate in the light of the maximum penalty on something. As far as higher penalties are concerned, we have really gone up in the Netherlands in recent years. I think that the seriousness of drug-related crime, organised crime, also clearly shows that there are just much more serious crimes, which are rightly punished more severely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u88	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his introduction and his apology to Mr Du Bois and Mr Viets. I was very impressed with that, so let me start with that. My question is: how does the Minister view the possible regulation of certain forms of soft drugs in particular? It is not that I want everything to be released and I like to be convinced, but if you compare it with the prohibition in Chicago or in America in the twenties, for example, then you can see that crime never prospered as much as it did at that time. For us that is the consideration to see if you might be better able to regulate some drugs, so that you have a grip on them and the quality of the stuff is also better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u89	I'm going to talk very quickly, because I don't want to stop anyone, because after about 2,000 years of alcohol was allowed, they said in Puritan America: we're not going to do that anymore. In the history books, we have learned that this does not work, or you really have to put a lot of dictatorship into it. Of course, it is really different with drugs in a number of ways, because they have not been fully accepted in society for 2,500 years. You're talking about the regulation of soft drugs. I go back to the report on 25 years of drug use, in which it is said that an issue was created by the tolerance of soft drugs at the front door, for example, of hashish, and the opening of the back door supply, which was filled by criminal gangs. What this cabinet has agreed in the almost but not yet really previous coalition agreement is now a "demissionary coalition agreement," so to speak, is a weed experiment to see if you can decriminalize that supply. I said this together with Mr Bruins at the time: we want to have this very strictly medically framed, because it must not in any way pose health risks. We also said at the time: we are drawing a very sharp line towards hard drugs; let that be very clear. That weed experiment's going on. We will see in a number of years whether it will be possible to remove the hashish on the supply side from the criminal circuit. We don't know if it is. This will only become clear in a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u90	I do not have so much a question as a comment. It's gonna cost you an interruption, but I'd like to make it anyway. I dare to doubt those 2,000 years, because for thousands of years people have been using exciting means. We only got it covered in drugs at some point, and then we banned it. So it's not like they were never used. Those 2,000 years don't go completely, either, because it goes by generation. We have now grown up for generations with the idea that it's kind of okay to smoke a joint or take a pill once. Anyone can find what they want. What happened in the years before, of course, you don't know. I don't know what happened in the 2,000 years before. It matters to me what I liked, what my father liked and what my grandfather liked. That's the timeline where I think you should look at it. But that's my opinion. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u91	I would just like to make one point: this is not an interruption, it is actually just an input. Perhaps you could save the somewhat detailed texts for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u92	I have a very brief response. I would like to... sorry, I would like to say that I do not know how things are going to turn out again with your Chamber. Look at the disasters that synthetic opiates have caused in the United States since the beginning of this century. Let me put it this way. Pieter Tops, well-known expert in this field, said to me: if anyone ever says to you, "alcohol is allowed, isn't it?', Then all you have to do is answer "exactly, and look what the hell we're already having." So I think maybe we should talk about that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u93	Let me come back to a point the Minister mentioned earlier. These were logistical points, such as ports and airports. Does the minister also look at the smaller nodes? I am thinking, for example, of the auction in Aalsmeer. Of course, we can see that a port like Rotterdam gets a lot of attention, but I think the smaller points behind it also need their security and their money. Is that what the Minister is thinking about? I think it gets in the way sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u94	Sure. Aalsmeer is a good example of what we are also paying attention to. Of course, I mentioned a few large ports. I also had a conversation with the mayor of Velsen-IJmuiden, where there is a much smaller port and where the problem is that seaworthy yachts and yachts seem to come in fairly uncontrolled with potentially unauthorized things. I'm going to go on with my lines, and I'm going to go on with my lines. One level higher is the partnership we have with a number of countries located in the North Sea and the Atlantic: Ireland, Portugal, the Netherlands, France and so on. It also cooperates in the fight against marine supply. At an even higher level, we make agreements with Belgium, Spain and France, precisely in order to prevent that diversion to other ports. We were going to talk about this again tomorrow with all the ministers, but in the light of covid that would become a WebEx. We have put that on hold for a moment, but there we are greatly expanding the agreements. That's really important. I have just lost sight of whether Mr Markuszower or Mr Eerdmans said it, in my opinion, was Mr Markuszower, but I agree that it is only with a strong international network that these international and multinational criminal organisations can be properly dealt with. I would also like to have Mrs Michon's answer straight away. For example, we also station Dutch liaison officers in the Latin American region. We're really getting more and more on that. That's getting wider and wider. That is really necessary, because these gangs just seem to be coming here more and more directly. Through structural funding, we want to expand these networks of liaisons and ensure that there are not only police liaisons, but also customs, KMar and prosecutors, as we have in Rome, for example. EUR 4 million has been earmarked for this purpose. Then I'll still be with Mrs. Van der Plas. She's not here right now, but she is. When she was there yesterday, she was right to point out the presence of drug crime in rural areas. That is what we have to bet on, and that is what will happen. We strengthen the support to the RIEC's municipalities in their approach to make the outskirts more resilient and safer. We do this, among other things, by offering analyses and the appointment of project managers. It sounds a bit technocratic, but it is really important for such an outlying area that you have someone who also zooms in very well on the sensitive areas, municipalities and agricultural entrepreneurs. There will even be a person of confidence for those agricultural entrepreneurs. I'm just saying. Whoever wonders if the support group is not in sight again, I say: no because we just notice over the last few years... I was in Zeeland for example. Then I hear the stories of entrepreneurs who feel very pressured and simply find it very difficult to get directly onto the police. That's what we're gonna set up all these facilities so that people can not only signal their story, but we can also advise them what needs to be done. Then there is a second pilot in which the municipalities, farmers, provinces and the RIEC focus on empty agricultural real estate. Then a network of public and private parties is set up that supervises and increasingly distributes the Qualitymark Safe Business Outside Area, just to raise awareness and get them to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u95	I thank the Minister for this answer. I agree with him that you can see that this urgency in the outside world is getting bigger and bigger. That's what I hear. It is therefore good that we have 5 million extra available for those green boas. I asked that yesterday and it did not exactly come back in the written answers. So exactly: will the Minister confirm or promise that we will indeed use the 5.5 million for the green boas where the undermining in the outside world is highest? Of course, every organization will say that they can use a few extra green boas, but this 5.5 million I really want to have used to tackle undermining in the outside world. I'd like a confirmation on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u96	I understand. I can certainly say that we are focusing on the use of boas where this undermining plays a role. Of course, I have to say a little bit... If I am going to say some kind of tough thing here, I still have to take a little account of colleagues, especially those from LNV who deal with these boas. But it's really the way to focus on that. I would like to say a few words about the EUR 159 million that we are going to invest in strengthening enforcement, detection, prosecution and trial. There will therefore be more money for police, forensics, the Public Prosecutor's Office and justice, but also for a number of other services, such as the Royal Marechaussee, FIOD and Customs. We do this mainly by making money available for smart technologies. With artificial intelligence and interception techniques, the police can strengthen detection, better map criminal money flows and also improve the information sharing system. That's what we really need. The new techniques allow us to carry out drug, DNA and cyber research faster and better. These developments are moving incredibly fast. I've just seen how well they've been dealt with in the police department. Well, you should, 'cause the BOLO has to be really up-to-date.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u97	Since the minister mentioned Peter R. de Vries, I may first give a quote from the drug manifesto he co-signed last year. "Let the effort to get to a drug-free world through repression sail. It's a hopeless road. Choose a regulated drug market. Not to be confused with a free drug market. In the approach and phaser, distinguish between the harmfulness of drugs." I think it would be a good idea to give the Minister that quote, because I said in my term that people use Peter R. de Vries or Saviano for other things. It is therefore a good thing to include this. My question is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u98	Is it good to get the Minister to respond to that first? He wants to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u99	There's an Opium Act, List I and List II. It is not for nothing that you have heard me say with a cheerful face, but hopefully with a somewhat flattened face: we do that weed experiment, that we tolerate it. I've been advised on that. The health situation of weed is very different from that of hard drugs, although it is not good either. It may be that the roads of Peter R. de Vries and I had split up in this area, but we never really talked about this. But I say quite honestly that I am not going to have a discussion as soon as it is really about hard drugs, which are clearly harmful to health, undermining people, and of which the United Nations say let me be quite clear that they are hard drugs. Then we will really have to take the three-step of pulling up the gangs, taking away every penny and prevention to prevent young people from getting into the gangs. Otherwise, in the long run, this place will indeed become a narcostat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u100	Make a difference in the phase and in the approach as the health damage changes, so said this manifesto. And I think the RIVM in 2009, The Lancet 2010, the Garretsen Commission on behalf of Minister Klink at the time: on the basis of health, for example, ecstasy should not be on that list. But still to the question I wanted to ask, because the Minister now went into the chain effects, and I had asked a question about them in the first period. He again mentions the total amount, and then he says: all the organizations it is intended for. And he refers in his written reply to the letter of 19 November, but yes, it is about those general chain effects. But now it's about: how exactly are the 500 million or 200 million translated? Before we vote on this budget, I would like to make this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u101	Well, just for a moment, if that's all right, about xtc; for that, I have a different opinion than Mr Sneller, or anyone else, on that harmfulness. But let's not talk about that right now. All the countries in the world said there in Vienna: that's a no-go. And then I say: then we simply have to realize that this is obviously a harmful substance, and that we in the Netherlands really should not think that we alone can call that it is not, because then we get everything here on our plate, we become the drain and all the criminal organizations come here. Yeah, that's the effect that we're already seeing a little bit and that's just gonna strengthen. Let me make the other point. I will come back with a precise response to the letter of 19 November - that is what I believe it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u102	But chairman, when...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u103	Let me put it this way: I find that a little difficult, within the framework of the limit of x approaching zero of what is happening elsewhere in the country, but I assume that that letter could be there, ice and again serving, for Christmas. But there may be a circumstance that makes it only after the ceremony.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u104	The tricky thing is, of course, that we have to vote on all the budgets in a number of weeks' time. And I think we are collectively concerned about whether we have learned the lessons, that we have that chain financing in order. So that if we add 100 million to the police, that also has consequences for the prosecution and also for the rm.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u105	It's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u106	Well, the minister keeps saying it's in there, and I'd like to see it in there. That is the breakdown I asked for in the first period, and I did not get an answer to this either: that the extra impulse for undermining and the funds from the Hermans motion has also been translated into the chain partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u107	Now I am speaking out of my mind, but perhaps my memory will be a little bit further and I can come back to it at the end of the first term. But I believe that we have always, since the beginning of the first letter on this subject, indicated that the chain effects are actually being taken into account. And I have even mentioned a number of factors relating to what each euro police means to euros, and then to the judiciary. So it's translated into it. But I thought that Mr Sneller was really talking at the beginning about detail up to the euro, and that is what I am saying: that comes as soon as possible as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u108	In any event, at the end of the first period or in the second period, the Minister may... Because you just indicated that you would be more specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u109	I will try to do so at the end of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u110	Mr President, on a point of order. The Minister has been given and taken a great deal of time to actually tell his policy programme. In fact, very few specific questions have been answered. This has also largely been done in writing. I agree with all that, but now the first really concrete question is actually being asked, so whether we can get a letter even before the budget vote on how the public prosecutor and the judiciary are financed, and then there can't even be a yes to making that commitment, so that the Chamber knows exactly what it is voting for. I find that very strange. And I would like to know from the Minister what his further reply looks like a bit. For example, has he answered everything about the police or organised crime? I really have no idea, but a very large part of the budget's policy programme has actually been communicated to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u111	Perhaps the Minister could indicate how his speech has been built up, with the subjects and with a kind of time-based assessment. Many questions have been answered, but a number of questions have also been asked. So this is to bring the Chamber a little more into your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u112	This is how it's usually done. Of course, a lot of questions have been asked. Last night and last night, we worked on the answers. They've all gone to your room. Those answers are there. I am simply discussing a number of questions which have already been answered, as is always the case. But I'm gonna bring it up again. It is, of course, up to your Chamber to say that we would like to draw attention to a question which has already been answered in writing. I think that's all very well. But if I am going to answer all the questions that have been asked, even in the run-up to this from the beginning of November, we will have a 14-hour debate. But, Mr President, from the beginning of November I have also answered the large quantities of written questions from the Chamber. So they all went to the Chamber, too. Then there are questions in the debate yesterday which partly refer to the questions that have been asked and are partly new. That is what all the answers have come to. If Mr Van Nispen or you, President, were to say that we really need to go through all the questions here, it would be a very comprehensive story. But I'm making a selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u113	Again, a point of order. This doesn't say anything to anyone. I'm getting a little tired of this. The Minister has taken two hours to answer non-asked questions. We've all given him room for that. It's all good. We all have speaking time, so does the Minister. Fine. Then there is a very specific question here, so that before we vote on the budget we know exactly where the euros are going, including to the prosecutor's office and justice and not just to the police. There can't even be a 'yes' from the moment we get that in writing for the budget. I'm sorry about that. So I just want an answer to this question, which I think Mr Sneller rightly put and which has cost him a lot of interruptions. I think that the Minister can simply promise that we can see that for the budget. I just asked for a table of contents very reasonablely. What else does the Minister have to say? Nothing more and nothing less. And I did not say that the Minister should reread his written reply. No one asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u114	Two questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u115	I've described how this goes every year. This is the fifth time. Mr Van Nispen knows this as well as I do. I'm just gonna keep that on. And if you have to, I'll let you know. I do believe, however, that even the members of the House concerned are saying that the argument I have made so far is an answer to a great many of the questions that have been asked. If we spoke for the first time now, Mr. Van Nispen, I understand the misunderstanding. But we've been running into each other for a very long time, so we shouldn't go "the minister doesn't answer anything." I just don't think that's right. That sounds like I'm only here for two hours to tell. I've answered a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u116	I'm going to ask the Minister a few questions. It is important to indicate which topics are still under discussion. I got it neatly, but the MPs didn't. So let's start with that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u117	I'll get the themes straight up real quick. We are going to talk about tackling the criminal business process, about the MIT, about monitoring and securing, about prevention-like things and about the report of the Forest Committee. I also come to the sexual crimes and everything in the field of online child pornography. I see here that I still have a few separate questions, including from Mr Van Nispen about the fire stations. The evaluation of the Security Regions Act is still under discussion. Also the National Coordinator AntiSemitism. I think so! It's a nice wallet. I'd be happy to expand it. I notice that I'm a little there... I've really tried my best to answer as many questions as possible representatively here. If there's any other way, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u118	But it is a good thing that Members of Parliament now know which topics are still to come. I'm gonna help you out, too. Here's what I got. Guarding and securing is still a big topic. So is sexual crimes. And then there are other, loose questions. So that's three really big blocks. In addition, Mr Van Nispen, following on from Mr Sneller, asked whether there could be a letter with a more concrete interpretation of that amount. I believe that the Minister has indicated that he will return to this at the end of the first term or perhaps in the second. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u120	That's right. I should also like to look at Mr Ephraim and Mrs Kathmann. Can we get on with that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u121	I just wanted to get back to the content. The minister just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u122	Before you continue, I think Mrs Kathmann wanted to say something about the approach. Then I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u123	I think there have also been compliments for the fact that people have been working there last night to answer questions. So I'd like to join in on that. But the minister said, if there's any other way, I'll know. He said to Mr Van Nispen: we have spoken before. Well, this is my first budget treatment. I was completely in the dark in terms of when there's another "block". I hate the word "blow" starts or is done. The Minister has also spoken a great deal about things that we have not asked for. I would therefore be pleased if we knew better when a subject would be announced and closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u124	I have now made this request to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u125	I also think that this is a perfectly understandable request. I'll agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u126	I think that was Mr Van Nispen's suggestion too, so I think we are back on the same page. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u127	I'd like to go back to the content. The minister said that tackling drug crime is: rolling up, taking it away, prevention. I think that's very wise. I am, of course, a rookie in this field, but as far as prevention is concerned, I would like to know from the Minister how to deter young people, especially underprivileged young people, from a nevertheless lucrative career in crime, in which they wrongly think with little effort to score a lot of canvases for their pattas and waggies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u128	Have you heard Mr Ephraim's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u129	Yeah, I was just waiting for the jargon to come down on him. The prevention approach does not focus only on children aged 8, 9 or 10 years. This is not an issue in which we are going to sit on top of it from the central government. As I said to Mrs Kuik, it is really very important that we free up the means to place local emphasis on prevention. We can see that's working very differently. In Arnhem, for example, we focus on a project where young children of that age, whose primary school indicates that they are vulnerable and may end up in a wrong circuit, are approached very professionally, and also the family from which the children come. Very often, this aid is considered very welcome. Then you're in a completely different preventive project than what you're thinking about. In Amsterdam-Zuidoost I recently visited a great project with so-called credible messengers, where young twenties, who themselves made wrong choices or who were in an environment where that happened a lot, are used to show students in a difficult neighbourhood with many problems what could be the right and wrong choices and to coach them to go in the right direction. I'm not going to go over that now for the sake of time. When I tell it like that, I think: here I come again, it all sounds so talk groupy. But I was very impressed by how people who have taken a wrong turn in life a few times are very motivated to use themselves under the guidance of experts, people who have been in youth work for a very long time to make that battle. That's why the term "credible messengers." You mentioned a few terms that come from the street language and that don't sound credible out of my mouth. Let's make that very clear. So it has to be credible. Mr Azarkan sees it all in front of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u130	Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u131	I do mean more young people of 14, 15 years of age, who are about to make perhaps wrong choices and who are easily influenced by successful ones, and this is ironically meant to be examples. I hope your approach works and we'll get a report on that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u132	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u133	Is the Minister done with the subject of undermining crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u134	I would just like to say a few words, and I would just like to make the point very clearly about disrupting the criminal business process. For this a new law is in the making, the Criminal Law approach undermining 2. Your Chamber has asked in the past to see how the taking of criminal money is taking place abroad. I must give credit to former MPs Chris van Dam and Maarten Groothuizen for this. I have done so, and I have looked at the non-conviction based confiscation section of Italy's example, where criminal money and crime-related cases are taken away without prior criminal conviction. Ms. Michon asked if the law would help take away at least 0.5 billion from 2024. I'm sure I'll say with caution that if you add up all the collections from the various services, you'll be about $0.5 billion. Then you'll have to look at what came in to FIOD and the IRS. I can't say anything about targets myself. It's in the D.A.'s office. I've told the Chamber before, we have to pay attention. I understand the frustration that the takeaway money should be more. But we must be careful not to target how the opportunity principle is implemented. Then you're not going to bet on dealing with child pornography, because that doesn't pay a penny, to put it bluntly. You always have to find a balance in that. Of course, we can say to each other that we must maximise the framework conditions. What did I see at the nonconviction based confiscation? When I visited the Rijksdomainen I found that there were a thousand cars in the parking lot that had been seized. That was a lot of Volkswagen Golf, which lost about 60% of its value after two years on site. That is why I have insisted on putting in the bill that we can execute immediately at the beginning. So you're confiscating, you're going to execute immediately and you're going to put the proceeds in a bank account. If the person suspected of possible criminal activities is later convicted and the property is forfeited, then you have those proceeds. If he doesn't, he'll get the proceeds back. This can be seen with a freely replaceable Volkswagen Golf, but even with a yacht, expensive cars or even real estate it is best to look at itself if the batter doesn't turn out to have been quite right afterwards. You can guarantee that. That's my reaction to Mrs. Michon. Yeah, I just expect that's why it's gonna make more money, that nonconviction based confiscation, because you're cashing in front of me what you've taken from suspicious gangs. It's gonna matter. There are a number of other things in the legislation. These are also things that address the power of the government to get to the assets. I would also refer to the plan of action presented by Mr Hoekstra and I two years ago to continue to tackle money laundering and other issues. Back to Mr Van der Staaij: this is really something of a long life, on which we have to work much more together. I would like to stress once again that we must be prepared to share a great deal of knowledge and data with the MIT. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Kuik said that the stuff you take away must be used for society. I think it is good to do this occasionally through a certain fund. The pilot Social Destination will be implemented next year. Yesterday, the Council of State sent its opinion on the Data Processing Act by Partnerships. It says that data processing is clearly an important tool for combating serious and undermining crime. I've heard some critical notes in the press over the past few weeks about this data sharing. Firstly, we asked the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Council of State for advice at the start of the draft legislative process. Both bodies have given advice. We have really processed that advice and we have explained it for the points we did not take over. The Council of State says: effective fight against crime is also state-of-the-art action. I would like to stress once again that this means that we can share information with each other with very pure guarantees. I would like to say something here about the picture that has been sketched out that we would like to go to a surveillance company, or that we could go in the direction of what went so wrong with the surcharges. I'd say that's a real disaster. I have included safeguards in the legislative proposal in order not to leave it in the wrong atmosphere. That was in your room and we talked about it. If they are not yet fully sufficient, says the Council of State, make an additional AMvB to ensure it further. Moreover, it only concerns data processing in situations where serious crime is possible. I am sorry, but I wanted to have said that in response to questions from Mrs Kuik, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u135	I have a question about this, also in connection with the one-two just between the Minister and the VVD on the other way of sharing data with the NCTV. Let me speak for myself. I don't care if you don't want to. I fully share the Minister's view that sharing data is vital if crime is to be combated properly. It is precisely the framework conditions that are at stake here in the House of Representatives over and over again. They don't add up. It was also mentioned earlier that there is a delay because things are declared controversial, or because the Dutch Data Protection Authority is now making it difficult. I would like to know from the Minister what this cabinet has done in the meantime with the feelings of many MPs. They do want data to be shared in the fight against crime, but they are incredibly concerned about supervision, framework conditions and good data sharing. We haven't been talking about the supplemental affair for months. In the meantime, what has the Cabinet done to ensure that the comfort there is that we can do this in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u136	The qualifications of a "one-two with the VVD" and "difficulty through the AP" are not mine. That's what I want to distance myself from. That's really not the issue. That's what's wrong with what we've done. That brings me to the answer to the question. When this bill was given to me in 2017 in the coalition agreement, the GDPR was not yet there. It had not yet entered into force. I said, "One thing. We're about to get the GDPR and we really need to make sure that we're going to make this very good GDPR proof." That has resulted in us having had a very extensive journey at the Dutch Data Protection Authority and at the Council of State. I also say quite honestly that it is complicated that the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority advised somewhat differently in some respects. We then discussed this in detail with your Chamber in December 2020, in my mind. I believe that a great many safeguards have been introduced to prevent it from going in the wrong direction. It is also a law with, I say, a limited scope for action with regard to a small number of partnerships. Again, the Council of State says of a few of the points mentioned by the Dutch Data Protection Authority: solve them with an additional AMvB. We're gonna talk to the First Chamber about that. That's where this has to be handled. By the way, this was a further advice from both of them to the Upper Chamber. So they had already advised your Chamber. That is the answer to Mrs Kathmann. I pay great attention to preventing us from getting laws that have no hardness clauses, or any way out for the individual. Otherwise, I wouldn't have started my story like that. I think Mrs Kathmann is right to make a point. We must continue to look critically at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u137	I notice that when the Minister is criticized, whether it comes from an institution or an MP, he takes it a little personally. It seems as if we cannot simply discuss the content without saying anything about the Minister himself. The criticism isn't mild. The Dutch Data Protection Authority is monitoring our privacy. We didn't set it up for nothing. She simply says: "The bill opens the door wide to unlimited surveillance by an unlimited amount of parties, public and private, and does not involve Parliament as it should. We strongly advise the First Chamber not to accept that." You can just go into that. What does the Minister think of this criticism? You can say: this has been here and this has been adopted here, and we have the Council of State. But what does the Minister think of the criticism of the Dutch Data Protection Authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u138	Something hard's gonna come up. This is an opinion requested by the Supreme Court. It has been requested on the basis of a bill passed by your Chamber. The same applies to the opinion of the Council of State, which came yesterday. Of course, we will give the First Chamber an answer to the question of how we look at these two proposals, which is why we are asking them to do so. We will really discuss the points that have been raised. I believe that the legislative proposal adopted by your Chamber adequately provided for safeguards and limits which, precisely what we are always talking about, give protection to the individual, let me say so unbiasedly. But I find it difficult to talk to you about this now before I report it to the First Chamber. I wouldn't think that's exactly right. I am just saying that you are now quoting from the press release of the Personal Data Authority. I find that, in light of the fact that you have a bill that is being discussed by institutions and is being advised not to do justice to the bill, I say quite honestly. If you say "this bill opens the way to a surveillance company," it means that there would be no guarantees in that bill at all. Of that, I say that it is not right. I would certainly like to assure you that as soon as we have accounted for the discussion in the First Chamber, I will return to that in your Chamber. But I think it's a crazy order to do that first to the House of Representatives. But I do not think that this comment about a surveillance society does justice to the bill. Of course you can criticize certain points, but it has really been looked at. The criticism of the AP, which includes safeguards, has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u139	The Minister is, of course, right in that, given the procedure that is being followed, it is not in itself appropriate to go into it in detail, especially at this time. But he did bring it up because he blames us for not being able to go through a number of things. This was about the treatment of the NCTV Act, which has been declared controversial. I believe that the Minister can also reflect on the issue of privacy. Privacy is too often violated by the government. We see that the recording of data that is not authorised is done. That's what NCTV does. The IRS has done in the past. I think that the cabinet, before it does anything to do with citizens' privacy and data, should check it better in the front. Maybe that'll help so cases don't get whistled back by the judge later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u140	That reflects. I've said before that privacy shouldn't become a shield for criminals. This means, I believe, that all those thoughts we have on legislative proposals in the field of data sharing should, first and foremost, be framed on crime. By the way, this also includes terrorist activities. That's also serious crime. That's one. Two. Then, I think, there should always be a guarantee system that allows proper testing of whether the person using that data sharing does so with a very clear binding, and also proportionate. You can still have such a good cause, but at some point you can still stand out in what data you collect. That's the second one. The third is that you still have to have some kind of extra lock on the door that prevents people who do not deserve to come along in that data sharing, for example in an investigation into criminals, fully justified and approved in advance by a judge-supervisor. Because what we do see, of course, is that such a person suddenly comes along with his data in the story. And we can't let that happen. So that's the third point. I think data sharing and privacy should always pay attention to this point. The fourth point is proportionality anyway. Because even when it comes to serious criminals, I think you have to respect the proportion and ask: what am I doing to get that data? I would always like to use those four points as touchstones in this regulation. I think I've always done the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u141	I'm just gonna take a look at the minister. Can we agree that at 5:30 p.m., at 5:45 p.m., we will hand over the baton to the Minister of Justice? It would be nice if the Minister could take that into account in his speech. Then around 5:30 p.m., at the latest 5:45 p.m., we'll really hand over the stick. Then hopefully we'll hear from the Minister for Legal Protection before dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u142	I'll put everything on top of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u143	Look. Mrs. Koekkoek, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u144	I hear in the Minister's speech the search for a balance between security and privacy. That's what I want to say first, so that we understand each other. This is because I foresee a certain risk. The Personal Data Authority will indeed get more budget in the forthcoming budget, but with the plans I see it will also have many more tasks. The activities of the NCTV are covered. We're gonna be talking about MIT soon. This also includes certain activities under the supervision of the AP, but also other issues such as the Long-Term Supervision Act and an upcoming proposal on passenger data sharing. Why am I doing this elaborate intro? I am looking for the balance sheet, not only with regard to the safeguards in the law, but also with regard to the supervisor and our system of supervisors. My question to the Minister is whether he sees this tension with me and whether he can explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u145	In fact, Mrs Koekkoek mentions four points in one sentence: the balance between security and privacy. That's what it's all about in the end. Moreover, passenger data and NCTV are already supervisory tasks that lie with the Personal Data Authority. In any case, this is exactly what I am looking for. That is something you can really always address me to. That was actually the point Mrs Kathmann made. Do you, as a cabinet, all of you, have learned from what did not go well in this area in the supplementing affair, that you have legislation that pays much more attention to the individual position and that puts these kinds of considerations with better guarantees? In the end, this means that things have to be much better in the front portal, so that there is much less supervision. Let me put it this way. Here's what I'm thinking. That's a bit of a lance for all those agencies and institutions. I speak for myself and for my department. We have had to get used to the advent of the GDPR and the fact that it clearly gives different guidelines. We're in 2021, so you can say to me quietly: have you had enough time to get used to it? But I'm really convinced that as we surround more of this kind of legislation with good guarantees... Again, we will look at the joint criticisms of the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority that we think we need to do something with to make it even better. But if you have that good legislation, then those safeguards already take place where they should take place. I believe that the executive body should take that test on its own. Am I collecting proportionate data here? Wait a minute, aren't there some very innocent people in the net I'm picking up for the criminals? This will also make the supervisory task much clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u146	I also understand very well that the legal safeguards could spare a very large part of the supervision. However, at the same time, I think that we are pre-sorting for confidence in those legal safeguards, while there are also a number of uncertainties. That is why I also mentioned a number of the proposals that are still to come and which we cannot yet see how they are going to work. Hence the next question. Should we not now focus on more robust supervision through a larger budget or certain powers, not only for the AP, but also for the TIB, the CTIVD and the Council of State, so that we are sure that even with new legal safeguards we will not make mistakes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u147	I have a framed school card in my room. I'd be happy to reproduce it 150 times. It states how legislation came about in the 1950s. I once got that card from one of my best, if not the best, law lawyers. That's 17 steps. I don't think you can guess how many there are now. Nobody dares! It's 101. That has to do with consultations and everything else. Of course, it has become a different society, but I think that in the legislative process we really invested the settlement of that balance between security and privacy with the Personal Data Authority and the Council of State. I say to Mr Azarkan that I understand by myself that the AP still has substantive criticism, but he also heard that I was indeed a little sensitive about the fact that it is classified on the site or in the press release as 'it goes to a surveillance company'. That does not do justice to all those who have made that bill very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u148	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u149	Mr President, you do not believe it, but I am really going to pursue my speech. I'm coming to the MIT, the Multidisciplinary Intervention Team. Some of your Members have taken advantage of my invitation to go there and just see what they think. That is what I want to appreciate to those Members, regardless of how they feel about them, because then at least we'll talk about what's going on there. I am convinced that MIT is on the right track. I am also pleased that some of your Members of Parliament see that this cooperation between relevant services is so important in order to get a closer look at this. And it is therefore an additional exempted capacity. The word 'cannibalism' was mentioned here yesterday, but that cannot be the case. It should be the combined strength of that additional capacity, information and coordinated cooperation. I would like to make it quite clear that this is how it should contribute to more effective interventions by the bodies that make these interventions. I'll call it national police or the FIOD. Then what's it about? I really want to stress that it's not some kind of second-degree crime scene. In September/October 2019, following that terrible event, the murder of Derk Wiersum, I spoke with the various services: police, OM, IRS and FIOD. I said, "What would you think would be best for each other?" And that was such a collaboration to map the criminal structures, the business processes and the earning models and, if necessary, disrupt them. That is quite different from what some of these services do separately. I was in Vlissingen and there the Customs took me into a situation where at one particular warehouse there were very clear pick-ups with forklift trucks. These are two different words "trick": where forkheftrùcks swap trúcs were played with all kinds of hidden drugs and the like. Because there was no such partnership to see how you could affect that structure and that business process, every time they caught the driver, the lowest in the organization, but then they didn't get any further. So there's that MIT really contributing to a safer and more resilient society. I have also heard very well that your Chamber is making a number of critical comments on this, and I will continue to take them with me. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to that guarding and securing. You said I had a solid block on that, but I'll see if I can get through that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u150	Another interruption by Mr Azarkan, DENK, on the MIT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u151	Still, briefly on the MIT. We had a round table discussion on this and that was quite staggering for me, to be honest. I understand the need to combat this serious organised crime and that this requires cooperation by about six services. But there is also a lot of criticism. So it would be at the expense of capacity. The idea is that there should be 200 police officers on top of the capacity already forecasted. It has also been indicated that this service will lead to competition with other services. It has been indicated that there is no clear objective at the start of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u152	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u153	My question is: how does the Minister hear this criticism, including from a number of specialists, from people who have really learned about this? And what does that mean for the organization's adaptation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u154	I hope you will not blame me, but I would really like to say to Mr Azarkan and those who have not been before: go there! I'm gonna go make a confession. I had been there before, but when I received critical questions from a number of Members of Parliament in a previous debate, I said: people, I really want to get that right again. I have been given a very clear presentation of the fact that there is no question of cannibalising existing capacity. There is no competition. And again, the concrete task is to contribute to effective interventions to prevent criminal structures, business models and earning models from emerging. We're talking about FIOD, IRS, D.A. and Customs, police and the KMar working together. They all have their own duties. The FIOD has explained to me there, the MPs who have been there, may recognize that they have a lot to do with the MIT for tasks that they themselves carry out. Two years ago, when I was at the Rotterdam RIEC, the Regional Information and Expertise Centre, they said: Minister please, S 16thoven... Today it is called Airport The Hague Rotterdam. You go through the craziest things, because every foreigner knows what Schiphol and Sixthoven are. Doesn't matter. Someone from Twente doesn't know it, but most people know it. Mr. Chairman. Let's go back. What did they say? Minister, we have certain information, but we're not getting any further, because we can't connect with the FIOD, with the IRS, so we don't get to do it again once again, so you're gonna break it open again, and catch the landlord and the tenant, without getting the problem behind it. Again, the specific objective is not to replace or compete with national police. I'm just gonna say that out loud for all the cops listening in. Nor is it to replace the Tax Office or the FIOD. It is true, and I see that also in research where pilots are now running, that they have a role on the side: contributing to more effective interventions, I just said it. But I really want Mr. Azarkan...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u155	...invite you to visit me again. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u156	We also saw the six services at the round tables, and I have to say that did not go directly over with enthusiasm. But I accept the invitation. I'll go visit. I'm gonna take the criticism and try to test it, and then I'm gonna ask the minister at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs Simons from BET1. Her last interruption again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u158	I actually have an urgent request and a question to the Minister. I am one of the Members of Parliament who visited the MIT, precisely because my party is incredibly critical of all the services that use data and want to share that data with each other. There's still a lot going on incredibly. I can assure Mr Azarkan that it has been a pleasant visit and that many of the concerns I will not say have been 'taken away', but at least have been reduced to other proportions. It's highly recommended to my colleague. I have no doubt about the enthusiasm of the people I met there and the intention with which they intend to do that work. However, a great concern is the system, in which we see so much going wrong when using data, algorithms, artificial intelligence and data sharing. Now we're looking at a service that wants to combine that with each other, and that can be both an advantage and a disadvantage. Mr President, I must be extensive, because this is my last interruption and I do not want any misunderstandings in the answer without a direct reason. So we are not going to share all that information with each other on a case-by-case basis, but are actually going to do so to record patterns and systems that can be of service in the regular search, if I understood correctly. Then my concern stays at the front. What are we going to do and how can we start to do at the moment when the systems that we are now using so often show that they are inadequate, that they suffer from conscious or unconscious biases, prejudices, because information on the front has or has not been put into them? That is still my greatest concern at the moment. I would like to ask the Minister how he can ensure that we have experienced the same conditions as we have experienced with the surcharges, the UWV and other implementing agencies in the Netherlands, the police themselves, the NCTV... I can go on for a while, but then the chairman will really intervene. How are we going to ensure that this good-looking initiative does not, for the time being, become a threat to society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u159	I am going to respond to that very concretely. There will be a bill for cooperation. A number of things can just be done now, but especially with regard to the data sharing that Mrs Simons asked for, we are coming up with a legislative proposal. In that bill, as I have just said, I will present a number of safeguards which, in my opinion, meet those four requirements that I have just formulated towards Mr Azarkan. By the way, the AP and the Council of State have already looked into it before it comes to you. I really think that's what we all got out of it, of course. I think that then we should look very critically at each other, the then sitting cabinet and the Chamber, if we've taken it in such a way that, indeed, then I'll come back to where I started my story. The individual's position is sufficiently guaranteed, that it's proportional and that it's really just focused. You can really hold me to that. I believe that this should be clearly regulated in the legislative proposal. You can really appeal to me or at least to the Minister of JenV as a Chamber in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u160	I have one more concern about this, and that's the next. If we find that too little crime money is being taken away in the Netherlands, the Minister says: yes, but we come with the MIT and then it's all going to improve. If we find that there is too little information exchange or that cooperation is inadequate, then the Minister will come with the MIT. Isn't much the problem anymore that all kinds of organizations are simply out of order? The Minister is very pleased with the extra money he has made available on this budget, but look at the reactions. The unions say, after the budget, after the extra money has been released: stop moving out of policemen. The chief of police says that more is needed to strengthen the police structuralally. The Public Prosecutor says that the investment is not enough to strengthen the foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u162	Justice says: invest heavily in the rule of law. During this debate we are told that the Mobile Unit and the Foreign Police Department are now going to take action because they are tired of it, because they are not confident that they will be properly taken care of, that real investments are being made to put the foundation in order. Where does the Minister come from to be satisfied that he is doing the right things and that there are sufficient investments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u163	I hope I don't radiate that in my body anguage, but I don't think I've said in my expressions that I'm satisfied. I am never, because we have to go back to much earlier in the debate, for example, that there was at the time that great wave of retired agents. Of course, there are also reasons why this has happened. You can say afterwards: you might have had to bet on that a few years earlier. In the end, that is a responsibility I bear, let that be clear. As I say, we are not in the ideal world with this. I'm gonna have to put all the sails in place to do that right. Do I understand the disappointment and dissatisfaction that police people have? We are really trying to do everything we can to get that capacity in order as well and as quickly as possible. In the meantime, I'm gonna go back to all sides and say that the police are gonna be assigned extra duties. You will recall that in some of the recent Corona debates I was involved in, I have also said quite clearly: people, we are not going to give police enforcement tasks; the police are busy enough. Then the point of structural money. I've taken that back for a while. The structural money that we are talking about is going to be, as I said, but I couldn't specify it specifically on the strengthening of enforcement and the criminal justice chain. There is 29 million available for chain effects at OM, ZM, which is the judiciary. How these chain effects have been determined, I have indicated in answers to written questions. I admit I have to see whose written questions were exact. Don't tell me I'm not ready to do that right now. Exactly how it works out is also really dependent on the further elaboration. Because I would also like to make a very strong commitment to prevention with authority; I have explained this quite clearly. There could still be chain effects in that. The same applies, for example, to drug enforcement. But at least that is justified in the letter. I would like to say once again to Mr Sneller that I am doing everything I can to ensure that this is done before Christmas in the Chamber. However, it is not the question that we would not have foreseen those chain effects. It is right that Mr Van Nispen is critical of this. That's what we're taking with us. In the end, therefore, how this is going to be done must depend on a certain development of the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u164	Thank you. Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u165	Mr Van Nispen is right to raise this point. The Minister says: I also want to ensure that the police are not given any more tasks. But it is as Mr Van Nispen says: they have added up everything. So everything we sign up for in this budget, everything that comes with it, all the wonderful ambitions we have are added together. And at the bottom of the line, we are just on the point that if we adopt this budget, basic tasks of the police cannot be carried out anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u166	Well, no. That is why, in August, I really insisted on extra structural money. I'll be at the Security and Security Department in a minute. That is a very concrete example. When tasks are extended, I keep saying that this means that more structural money is needed. I will honestly say that I have indicated in this Chamber about NPS, the new psychoactive substances, that I simply cannot go along with this at the moment. I said this to the disappointment of Mrs Bikker and Mrs Kuik, for example, whose motion was very clear. The police must have money to recruit additional people needed to enforce it. That money wasn't there. The sex motion of Jesse Klaver and Kathalijne Buitenweg honors who deserves honor from September 2019, provided enough structural money for extra vice police. But it really takes a while for all those people to be fully trained and rehearsed; I'll get to that in a moment. After all, you can't just pull these people out of a closet somewhere. So there must always be structural money in the first place to be able to expand a task, and then there must be enough people available. I think Mrs Kathmann is right to prevent us from saying to the same group of policemen: no one is joining us, but you are going to do ten extra jobs and here's extra money. It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u167	That is exactly what is happening now. The Minister keeps saying: read this, this money comes with it, this comes with it, this comes with it, I do it and then that. I admire that and I do not want to stand before the Minister. I note, however, that the unions are calling the bell. They just say enough is enough. They say that if we do not get 300 million more, we will no longer be able to carry out fundamental tasks. When they convert it, it's just 2,300 formation sites for detectives. Count that down to neighborhood agents; there are many, many times more. I also asked the Minister yesterday what we are not going to do. We often talk about wishes in the Chamber. What more do we want? But I think we should talk much more often about what can no longer be done. What basic tasks of the police can no longer be carried out if the 300 million is not added? I would very much like to hear from the Minister how we talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u168	There is really a misunderstanding here, and I would like to clear it up. I'll be at the Security and Security Department in a minute. Here comes extra structural money. But to do so, people need to be recruited and trained, and these additional people will only come gradually and in the future. Gradually, that will be lifted. So when I get structural money, I really don't say to the police: well, here's a bag of money and take care of it. I would really like to reassure Mrs Kathmann. The police are right to say: no, we still have to get the people and sometimes the materials for that. Speaking of materials, one example is the power surge weapon. It is not everyone's pleasure, but I am still a firm supporter of that. I believe that in November 2019 I said: people, we are now going to settle it with the police. I also said it would take two or three years. Because you have to do it by region, with tendering and all that kind of stuff more. We have to face up to the fact that if we say that there is to be more sex police, 'here is the structural money', it will still take a few years before you take that in. Yeah, that's the world of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u169	Then how do you read your own words, I ask through the President, in reply, namely that the rack is out? I've been asking questions about riots and so on. The police run from riot to guard and you name it. If it goes on like this any longer, the rack's out. Has the Minister been invited to the Beijerlandslaan for 7.30 p.m. Friday evening?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u170	Let's go back. There will be new collective bargaining. I think it is perfectly legitimate that, in the context of collective bargaining, the unions should focus on a number of issues, and that is what we are going to negotiate with each other. In the meantime, that's how I started, when I discussed those riots, there's an incredible amount of pressure on my people, I say, my policemen, but also my firefighters and more services. There's a lot of pressure on that. We're asking a lot of them. That is why I am extremely opposed to any ideas being put forward to do new tasks now, immediately. That's not gonna happen. Meanwhile, we're still dealing with a society with considerable tensions. But just as well as the care can't say "that's all nice, but we just want that patient supply to stop"... I take it that this pressure is there, but I cannot say: I have now sent a letter and all the organized groups who come by force have said 'we are going to do something else'. It doesn't work that way, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u171	I think it's a bit of a waste of my story, because I haven't had one answer yet. I asked: have you been invited to Friday evening 7:30, because the invitations to the next riots are flying over the Internet? So you know that the number of riots will only increase. In the answer, the Minister states: if the riots continue to increase, then the rack is out. So the rack's out. My question is then: how are we going to talk about what can no longer be done about fundamental tasks in the coming period? That is a very important one, because I agree with the Minister. They are your people, they are all of us, who stick their necks out every day for our safety. How are we going to make sure in the next few years that when the rack is out, we keep talking about this, so that it doesn't get passed on to the cops themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u172	I do not count this as an interruption, because it is a repetition of the question that Mrs Kathmann asked earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u173	I'll put two sentences into it. First of all... The discussions on the collective agreement are, of course, self-evident. In this context, these actions take place. Two. No, I'm not invited, if you really want an answer to that. I thought it was a rhetorical question, but if it isn't, I'll answer it from now on. You know, I see this pressure and I therefore stop thinking from this Chamber or from the cabinet like 'let the police do this or that again'. I cannot deny that there is an enormous amount of police work at the moment in terms of accompanying demonstrations, re-shushing riots and that sort of thing around them. That must not be at the expense of individual policemen. At least let me make that clear. Mr. Chairman. I'm here to guard and secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u174	I would ask you to make a very brief introduction to this subject. Then I'll see if there are any questions in the Chamber. The most important thing, of course, is for Members of Parliament to receive answers to their questions. I'd like to ask you to make a brief introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u175	Mr President, very briefly. We have invested EUR 55 million in structural investments in monitoring and security since 2020, and additional EUR 67 million will be added. This confirms that we still have ten years of undermining activities to combat. The sad thing about it is that it's actually putting sandbags in front of your house, when you wouldn't close the hole in the dike. We are really moving towards a situation where more and more judges, prosecutors, lawyers, journalists, but also politicians need to be protected and guarded. That is why I did not pay attention to this at the beginning, because we cannot end up in that spiral. I would like to say a few words about the Forest Committee, which I have also replied to in writing. I think the most important thing is that the Forest Committee has said: go work in a rural quadrangle. That's the point we're taking over. Furthermore, you know that I have asked the Security Research Council to look further at the lessons to be drawn from the three murders that have been committed around the Marengo process for monitoring and securing. Then I'll leave that for what it is. I have already said the necessary things about measures in the youth field. There is 82 million available for prevention. In reply to Mr Ephraim, I discussed a few things that were in my text. So you can see, Mr President, that I do answer the questions of the Members of Parliament. Then I come to the sexual crimes. That's the last topic of my treatment. There's Mrs. Ellemeet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u176	Before you do that, first Mr Omtzigt and then Mrs Michon-Derkzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u177	Good thing we're investigating the three murders involved in the Marengo trial, including Derk Wiersum and Peter R. de Vries. Under European law, the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 2, it is also necessary to examine whether it could have been prevented. That's what the O.V.V. is doing. Under the case-law of the Court, a debt should also have been established, if it could have been avoided, and there should be the right for the survivors and the persons concerned, in this case, to have two lawyers who are under threat in order to produce evidence and to carry out interrogations. Are those three things well arranged and secured in this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u178	I have been given good advice in advance on whether we are going to meet the requirements of the ECHR and its case law. I am assured that the independent investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office is also covered by the standard of investigation required by the ECHR. That may be the ongoing criminal investigations, but if it turns out that there is a criminal offence, there can also be a new criminal investigation, as Mr Omtzigt says. The D.A.'s a completely independent body. The point is that the OVV cannot and will not establish the blame or liability, especially the latter. I repeat, that is the independent procedure of the Public Prosecutor in due course. It was, of course, equally difficult, I say to Mr Omtzigt. I had the problem that I didn't want to go through the ongoing criminal investigations because of that independence. That is why I asked for advice, because a number of professors in television programmes said in the summer that it was not independent and sister and so on. I said, what is it? Then it shouldn't cross each other. I believe that the wording put forward by the chairman of the OVV, Mr Dijsselbloem, is sufficient. But this guilt and liability can then be dealt with in independent proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u179	It's complicated, so I really understand that this isn't easy. But that Article 2 procedure is deliberately designed in other countries, in Great Britain and Malta, with which I am now a little more familiar, in a separate procedure, in which a committee is appointed to hear people under oath. By the way, the OVV can do the same. The OVV can progress very widely under the law for the OVV and everyone is supposed to cooperate. So that part is well covered under that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u180	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u181	You're right to ask that. Can it be worked out exactly how the rights resulting from the case law of the OVV are met? Then we don't have to discuss this completely. The question is whether this could have been prevented. That is the key question. Should action have been taken? We are preparing the investigation into the fireworks disaster in Enschede. You know the commitment I have to that. I say this because we are wondering whether we could have prevented this from happening in the Culemborg fireworks disaster, which killed people two years before. That's something we need to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u182	I understand the context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u183	Can we get back to that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u184	Of course, the Chamber can always come back to that; let that be clear. Indeed, last summer I faced that difficult weighing. In the end, I also thought it important, Mr Omtzigt, to point out that witnesses could be heard under oath. For me, it was a point to ask a committee at first, because I thought: from the debate that is now taking place, with all these tasteless remarks back and forth, and from the television programmes we have to get rid of; we really have to be able to come up with something good. You know that I also spoke with Peter R. de Vries' next of kin. We've come up with this: this takes longer, but it happens solidly and under oath and it leaves the things of the prosecutor, that whole path, free. And that's so important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u185	Mr. Omtzigt? No? Enough? Then Mrs. Michon-Derkzen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u186	The Minister mentioned prevention in a short space of time. I have also drawn attention to this in my contribution, and I also hear this point from many colleagues. The combination of prevention and repression is so interesting. So no prevention without firm repression. In my speech, I mentioned two things, but the Minister's answers in the written response were lean on both points. The first is the Rotterdam patser approach: the taking away of stuff that young children with criminal assets have purchased. The Minister says that it is a local issue, but my group says: put more emphasis on it, because that gives young children the idea that crime does not pay off. My second point, Mr President, may I make that right? It's about the drug runners and the police's burden of proof. The police say you need seven customers if you have small quantities. That number is, for example, two or four when it comes to large quantities. But especially the children often have small amounts. So they are always caught on drug possession and not on drug trafficking. My group believes that it is important to act on these two points in order to deal with the young, starting criminals. I'd like a response from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u187	Then I'm going to split that reaction in half for the sake of speed. I'll start with the second part. I shall return to these two points in a letter. Then the first part. Look, these are things I need to get people around locally. That certainly applies to the patronage approach. I thought that was a very good one; I'm just saying that here, in this room. But I have also heard from some triangles that they were not enthusiastic about it. I think it is so important that we make these resources available to you, as you have heard me say earlier in reply to Mrs Kuik, and that we have, in a manner of speaking, an independent jury looking at what good projects are to be presented. 'Cause it's gotta help. It's supposed to keep the kids away. So here I am sitting a little... I feel for it, too, but I'm also getting resistance from other places. So here's part two: I'll come back to it in a letter. The same goes for the drug runners. That is also a rather complicated point in terms of enforcement. I just haven't solved that yet. Here too, the locals must say whether or not they want to use their energy and their people. But I'll come back to that in a letter to see if we can't do those two things anyway, can I put it that way? In addition, the Commission has proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Community's financial instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u188	And when can we expect the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u189	That's a nice question. I assume that we can send that letter before Christmas unless there is a development before that that makes it virtually difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u190	For the Christmas tree. Thank you. Then there's the sexual crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u191	Yeah, no, let's see... Yeah, now for the sexual crimes. That's where we left off. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I see now only the details of the criminal business process, but that was not the intention. I'll bring it up. Mrs Ellemeet rightly had a number of questions about this. I can say, and I am grateful to your Chamber once again, that thanks to Mr Delors and I mention him once again, the Hermans motion has managed to free up the means to get to work on this new bill. I think it's a very important bill, not just because just when I was appointed, MeToo played full-scale. Indeed, I said a little bit into it: we really need to modernise our legislation in this area of sexual crimes. Well, I also believe and hope that I have heard everyone now, from victim organisations to the judiciary, to see what is best, and on a number of points I have been assisted. I also say: it is nice that, except for a few, the whole Chamber is behind this, because I think this is a very important subject for society. Sex and everything around it must always be a free choice. And I'm saying here, if it's not a free choice, if there's no free will, then it's rape.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u192	It's a good thing the Minister picks this up. I had already tabled an amendment to regulate funding for this, but I can withdraw it, because that is no longer necessary. Today is the international day against violence against women. And let that not be a coincidence, because in our country too, we have to observe that, and I have done so in my first term too, if you look at, for example, sex cases and their handling, the number of cases dealt with within six months has fallen to 52%. So this is down. I think that is a very sad observation. But we also see, of course, that violence against women is far wider. And it's very good that there's funding for that law now. But I ask the Minister: what is the Minister going to do to increase the treatment of these vice cases? Because I, too, have received a written answer which I did not find too inspiring.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u193	We've got extra detectives on the line. And I have just explained it in a short change with Mrs Kathmann as well: it just takes a really long time. I understand the impatience. That's what you're gonna have to hunt me down for, not the police, because they're doing their best. But we must also have trained and recruited people in order to be able to use them to do so. It's getting better and better. And it is a pity that Mrs Ellemeet takes the words out of my mouth, because I had here the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. 'Cause it's just a coincidence that that's today. It's just telling that there's such a day. The fact that this is also necessary in our society means that we cannot sit back satisfied. So we need to continue to focus on increasing capacity in the near future. Mrs Kathmann also asked me about the status of tackling street harassment. That is also stated in the relevant legislative proposal. That bill will be Deo volente's, may I say? I hope so. And if I can't do it anymore, I say 'to my firm hope and expectation' at the beginning of December can go to the Council of State. So that would be very nice. We've got the money, too, so hopefully it'll run really fast. Then I hope that your Chamber will get to work on that very quickly as soon as it is submitted here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u194	I don't want to take anything away from the Minister's good initiatives. I also see that this subject is of great concern to him. But it's just not enough. We see that violence does not diminish. We can see that the vice cases aren't taking away. We see that its treatment is still very slow. We are actually seeing this problem of violence against women coming back in all kinds of areas. An earlier call has been made for a national coordinator against violence against women. Wouldn't it be time, and wouldn't it be a wonderfully strong and beautiful signal if we said on this day, this International Day against Violence against Women, as a Chamber, as a minister and as a cabinet: yes, let's get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u195	Yeah, I can only say that. I'm gonna bet my ass on it. I've made every effort to get this bill through under this outgoing cabinet. 'Cause the money was settled. It doesn't matter if you're a cabinet missionary or not. Everyone, except for a few, wants this. So that's all very good. We also really have a bill that already has carrying capacity. I can still talk about sex detectives and the like, but I also want to say that I think that we must also make a strong commitment to standards here. That's why I just said it again. Sex is a free choice. And if it's not, if it's forced on you, it's rape. Period. In my opinion, this is something that should be put forward as a chamber, as a cabinet. But everyone else has to put that out. And we must also dare to appeal to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u196	I believe that Mrs Ellemeet also meant whether there should be a rapporteur. A national coordinator, I mean. The Minister said yes to that. But I don't know if that was in response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u197	No, no, but I don't mean a national coordinator. I didn't take it that way. Look, I think it's the most important thing... I just have to say it, otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u198	It's in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u199	I said yes to sharing a sound. But sometimes, Mr President, there are a lot of questions in one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u200	Perhaps Mrs Ellemeet can ask her question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u201	So just to explain?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u202	For your explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u203	All kinds of experts, the Dutch Women's Council and other initiatives have long been calling for a national coordinator against violence against women. You'll hear it international, too. Today, the European Parliament has also spoken out again and stresses the importance of countries taking this up as well. And that was indeed my request on this day, International Day Against Violence against Women. If we all see that this problem is still so great, would it not be wise to come up with such a national coordinator?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u204	Now the question is something else, namely whether it would be wise or not. Then I have some more reservations. Let me say the following. I think that a next cabinet should get to work on that as soon as possible. That is also possible, because in March the Council of State will give its opinion, at least that is what I am assuming. So who knows? Maybe he can even go to the House of Representatives around International Women's Day. I think that discussion should take place as soon as possible. I'll be honest with myself for a moment that it's my priority to strengthen that vice detective as best I can. I would also like to mention Mrs van der Werf's point about countering unconscious discouragement to press charges. This is currently being involved in the police approach plan drawn up on the basis of that inspection report. That's the kind of thing I think my duties are right now. And then let's look at that bill and see if it has enough resonance, so that you can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u205	I understand that Mrs Ellemeet has withdrawn her amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u206	Thank you for the Minister's reply on the implementation of my motion and on Mrs Ellemeet's questions. I'd like a supplement to that. We had a committee debate on sexual violence a few months ago. Then you promised me to respond to a request for a national action plan against sexual violence. This was proposed by Amnesty, Rutgers and a number of organisations. I would like to know if you could do something with that by now, and, if so, could you include it in the implementation of my motion, which is scheduled for this spring?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u207	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u208	That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u209	That's how we move on quickly. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u210	Fine. Now we're in the category of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u211	Well, I have something very briefly about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u212	Mrs Kathmann also has a question about this issue, about sexual crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u213	One more question about street harassment. I am already very pleased with what the Minister has just done, but I have one more question about the Safe Cities programme. That's a preventive program via OCW, but it ends in 2023. If we really want to tackle street harassment properly, we need to have that law on the one hand and preventative measures on the other. This programme runs jointly with municipalities. What can the Minister do to ensure that that programme is continued through OCW?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u214	I can imagine it's a little disappointing when I say it a few times, but I find that difficult. I will discuss this with OCW's colleague, but I find it very difficult to make further commitments on this. Let me put it this way: this also applies... By the way, with the municipality of Rotterdam, for example, I am looking at whether the approach they have specifically developed there is a good one. I will certainly look into it and I will ask the honourable Member if she will at least send me another letter on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u215	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u216	Yeah, as long as I don't fail people. I've got a few things left. On child pornography, Mr Van der Staaij asked another question: what else can we do about it? We need that solid supervisor and if it's all going well, from June 2022 we have an administrative authority that can work with it to force those Internet companies to remove images of child pornography from the server. Cleaning the Internet is, of course, an important aspect of the national and international approach. On this part, I will leave it at that, because I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber would agree that we are firmly committed to this. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few loose questions. A question has been asked about the disappearing fire stations. The signals from the workplace referred to by Mr Van Nispen also reach me and I bring them to the attention of the Safety Council, also because the risks involved in carrying out the work are high in the use of firefighters. In February, following the review of the Security Regions Act, I announced an integral legal framework for crisis management and fire management. This will make the further reinforcement of fire services an important goal. We are also still talking about the status of the voluntary firefighter and so on. We all have to take that into account. Finally, the questions put by Mrs Bikker and Mr Bishop about the National Coordinator on Anti-Semitism. My intention is to make the funding of the NCAB and its support structural and to reserve 0.5 million a year in the budget for that purpose. It is good that the NCAB and the recently appointed National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism will seek synergies, for example by sharing the back office and knowledge with each other. Then we can best ensure that the fight against anti-Semitism continues to keep the attention it deserves. Mr President, I am really finishing up now. I repeat: we have to keep looking back at that. I want to return to the individual in our society. If some of you, like Mrs Kathmann, Mrs Simons and others, ask me as critically, "are you going to pay attention to what you are doing with legislative proposals?" I will say: yes, you must always appeal to this minister. Because the public interest makes the individual vulnerable. You must always keep seeing man in the individual context. Then you get security for the individual and then you get justice for the common good. That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u217	Thank you. There are still a few interruptions. First, Mr Bishop, then Mrs Bikker and then Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u218	Thank you for the Minister's clear answer. I agree with the need to coordinate between the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism and the National Coordinator against Anti-Semitism. But I also attach great importance to the fact that they remain distinct functions and that they do not come to one office, I'll say. In concrete terms: does this also mean that the National Coordinator against Racism and Discrimination remains with the Interior and that the National Coordinator against Anti-Semitism remains under Justice and Security? Is that a correct conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u219	Mr Bishop and I sometimes exchange things because of what is eternity and what we must imagine. Of course, I don't know, but the starting point is that it just continues to exist. We're gonna see if you can create synergy in the back office, but they're two separate coordinators. We're going to evaluate at some point and then I'm going to discuss with your Chamber how it's going to be experienced, how it's going to be done and how it could be done even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u220	To avoid misunderstandings, I ask the Minister no guarantees for eternity. We are fragile beings and are unable to provide them. Do I hear the Minister say: the approach is that they are two distinct positions? He's gonna create a certain synergy where that's possible. He is going to evaluate and he is not going to take steps to merge or to join one office or anything else, before the evaluation has been carried out and conclusions have been drawn from it. Is that what the Minister wants to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u221	Mr Bishop must be able to trust that this is separate. I brought this forward because Mr Segers and Mr Yeşilgöz had received money for this by means of a motion for a resolution. Then you have to set it up like this. That's what happened. Mr Bishop and I agree very quickly that we owe it to the Jewish community to set it up in this way. We are. I just don't want to tell you how we're gonna set it up in 2035.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u222	Clear. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u223	In life and well-being we talk about it again in 2035. I'd like to put it off for that long. Then it is good to withdraw the amendment that we had prepared and to accept this commitment, because it is a good way to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u224	The Bishop amendment (Doc. 33) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u225	Thank you to the Minister for this commitment. It is precisely when the spectre of anti-Semitism keeps popping up from the dark pits of Europe that I think it is important that we invest structuralally on this and that the coordinator can really focus on projects, not only on coordination but also on independent projects. If I understand the Minister correctly, I am looking at him very hard between the motions, which is also part of the task of the National Anti-Semitism Coordinator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u226	The Minister nods in the affirmative. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen. Or is Mrs Kathmann also talking about anti-Semitism? No. Ah, another amendment. Are we doing all the amendments now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u227	Yeah, I've learned that's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u228	Sure, but I'll take a look at Mrs Van der Plas if she has a question about an amendment or something else. Something else. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs van der Plas and then go to the appreciation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u229	I'm missing the answers to my questions about the fireworks ban. I asked five questions about that. What does the Minister think about the ban? How can we maintain this? How much extra bet is needed now and on New Year's Eve? What's this gonna cost the citizens? And why does the Minister impose this extra workload on his policemen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u230	They haven't been answered in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u231	Yes, they have certainly been answered in writing, but I would like to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u232	If you would like to go into it very briefly, but let us not repeat things that have already been answered in writing, because that is a shame. Let the Minister be very brief...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u233	Excuse me, I would also like to take a very quiet look at the written answers. If I have any additional questions, I will come back to them later. I missed it for a while. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u234	Great, thank you very much. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Then we will go to the appreciation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u235	First of all, the amendment on item No. 9, Omtzigt. This is about reducing the budget of informers and using budget for think tanks. I would advise against that amendment. It has already been explained by Mr Hoekstra in terms of policy and an appreciation has been given by him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u236	That's right, it's been discussed a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u237	Then there is an amendment to item No. 26 by Mr Van Nispen requesting that police expenditure be increased by 70 million for financial detectives, by 20 million for the prosecution and by 10 million for the FIOD. I would advise against that amendment. The ambition with the partners is to reduce criminal money flows by preventing and combating money laundering, achieving higher take-off results in a broad sense, including preventive action and so on. The Directorate-General for Undermining has been given the specific task of directing the package to work closely with all those involved in order to increase the overall take-off results. Reducing criminal money flows, including through the taking away of criminally acquired assets, is a valuable generic tool. I'd already emphasised that. In all criminal matters, it is being investigated whether that can be taken away. That's also apparent from the D.A.'s office. The Security Agenda also includes that the financial perspective is a dominant line in tackling undermining crime. There's a financial commitment on all these cases. In the area of tackling undermining crime and criminal money flows, investments have been and are being made. See also my previous letter on that. The cooperation between partners in the criminal packages has been strengthened. Chain partners already greatly expand their capacity, including the design of the MIT, in which all chain partners are present. For the legal possibilities of taking away criminal property, my bill is for non-conviction based confiscation. We're already seeing the first results.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u238	But it's about the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u239	This is all in response to the amendment. Yes, I have this appreciation. Through the chairman, I would like to say to Mr Van Nispen that I understand him very well. But I also want to motivate clearly why we shouldn't. I do not do that with every amendment, but I thought this amendment deserved it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u240	So the amendment is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u241	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u242	Then I still have an unanswered question, which I had hoped would be included. Thank you for the content, although I disagree with the content. I guess I'll just have to put it on the table. The question I asked in the first period was that banks are passing on more and more suspicious transactions. I have a lot of criticism of banks, but they do this well. They've hired people to do it, and they've done it seriously, but the government isn't really doing anything about it. I don't understand. How is it that hardly anything happens to suspicious transactions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u243	That was indeed a question that had remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u244	I could agree with the idea that we can still do more about it. It's not like nothing's being done about it. Additional capacity will go to the FIU and we will continue to deploy additional capacity. It is too early for this at the moment, but we have to check in the spring to see if we have put everything in place at the point of taking it and what comes with it. It has already been invested in it in recent years, and it will continue to be so. Indeed, I think it is very good that banks, so to speak, are a little ahead of us. I also hear Mr Van Nispen say that they are going to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u245	Thank you for the coulance on this point of order, Mr President. I am still waiting for an answer to the question about the general pardon for Surinamese Dutch, or "Surinamers," unfortunately. I can imagine that being arrested by one of the other regiments, but I would like to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u246	Do I see how the Secretary of State for Legal Protection is going to deal with that? No. Nor the Secretary of State? Then it's the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u247	After four and a half years, everyone turns to me and says, "If you do that, we'll have lunch."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u248	I have just been informed by the Secretary of State that the reply has already been given in writing. The question is whether you still have a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u249	I missed that for a while. I'll look into that. Perhaps I will come back to that in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u250	Very nice. Thank you for your coulance, too. Then we will stop the questions and move on to the amendments. I would like to inform Members that, if there are things left, there is a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u251	Shall I finish the amendments? I'm gonna do that as soon as I can. The amendment tabled by Mr Kathmann and Mr Ploumen calls for an increase in the amount in Article 36 on counter-terrorism and national security interests by 50 million in the context of the Wts. I'd advise against that. Additional agreements have been made on compensation of municipalities next to the Wts. It is covered by the general budget. The Wts really is a safety net arrangement. The point is that as a cabinet under that law, you cannot compensate for all the human and financial suffering. The wording on this is really quite clear. We do have an eye for the seriousness of the disaster, the coincidence with corona and the fact that this took place in the tourist season. That's why the Cabinet has looked into what we could do next to this law. I'm a dead man. A number of municipalities, such as Valkenburg aan de Geul, have been severely affected. We only meet part of the costs through the Wts. Mr. Chairman. I find that this is not quite right, so I am not going to argue it very extensively. We have to discourage this, because the Wts has a certain framework. The cabinet tries to do more by other means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u252	In any case, thank you for the written reply. This was, of course, a great disappointment. The 50 million is just desperately needed. Then there's another question. After the nightclubs, Rotterdam called the bell: bureaucracy is in our way; we just want to make sure that the damage is paid and that aid is paid out as quickly as possible. Is the Minister prepared, as he has done for the victims of Rotterdam, to do everything in his power to ensure that this is done for these victims as well? So: is he willing to go straight through bureaucracy to make sure that the money, which in my view is too little, ends up with the people as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u253	I'll take a good look at that again. I'll also let your room know what came out of that. I'll let you know in a note in the next two weeks. I really need to get into that. The amendments to documents Nos. 36 and 37 are very closely linked. First of all, I would like to make the amendment to No. 36, on increasing the police budget by 50 million. I'd advise against that. We have invested heavily in this cabinet period. In the coalition agreement 291 million were already structural. After that, the same thing happened in the meantime. Think of morals, think of BOTOC, think of extra guarding and securing, think of additional investments in security and undermining other. We have also done really extra things in terms of PTSS information provision and cyber security. I understand the point, but I think the question is whether there should be more structural budget really something for the new cabinet, which we all hope will be there in not too long. Mr. Chairman. The same is true of the amendment on item No. 37. That asked to add 300 million. Again, I understand the point. I'm going to repeat that there's been huge investment. We now need to see how the new cabinet looks at certain things. I think we will know within a reasonable time. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm really through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u254	I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security for his reply. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then we will begin with the contribution of the Minister for Legal Protection. Then we have dinner suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u255	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u256	Thank you, Mr President. When I called my best friend four years ago to tell him I was asked to be a minister in this cabinet, he said: fantastic, but just in front of my image, "legal protection," what are you going to do? Fortunately, that was clear to me. The essence of legal protection lies in the protection provided by the law and the possibility of always having recourse to an independent court for its application. It's about preventing injustice and restoring injustice. Sometimes it takes the strong arm of the law and sometimes it takes a shield to protect you from that same government. There were major challenges at the beginning of this cabinet period. After the murder of Anne Faber, it was clear to everyone that in the forensic care needed to make sure that society was better protected against the Michael P.'s of this world. In prison sentences, the freedoms of prisoners and the sense of justice of society had been out of proportion. Legal aid threatened to burst out of its joints. Although social attorneys were working their asses off, practical solutions were often lacking to enable people to move forward in their lives. And then there's justice. No one works as hard as our judges, but the waiting lists and stacks got taller and bigger. Enough work, therefore, in the field of legal protection. There were no easy solutions either. It's always been a bit of a bitch, and it's always a bitch looking for a good balance. For example, the balance between short-term security and long-term security. Of course, you lock people up after a serious crime, but in the end you also know that it stops and that these people have to return to society. The balance between formal justice and the need for people to pick up the thread of their lives. Because on the one hand we want to guarantee access to justice, but at the same time we also want to avoid unnecessary legalisation of problems. The balance between care and speed. Especially in law, you want this to be done legally soundly and carefully. On the other hand, however, we also want perpetrators and victims to be able to move on quickly with their lives and clarity. It's all dilemmas. There's a lot of tension on it. Between one interest and the other, there is a range within which things can also be more or less balanced. I don't know if you like geeks know that maybe it's astronomers who call it the Goldilocks zone, the zone in which it's not too hot and not too cold. That's the only place where it makes sense to look for life. Just like in the fairy tale of the three bears' porridge plates. The first was too hot, the second was too cold, but the third was just right. This is what we have been looking for in recent years: a good balance, where we have found solutions, where we have made progress. The detention of prisoners is now linked from the beginning to the end to the behaviour of detainees. Good behavior is rewarded, bad behavior is punished. In legal aid, we are well on the way to solving legal problems of people more often and more easily, although legal proceedings are sometimes still necessary. In forensic care, there is more attention to the risks of society and these risks also count more heavily when granting freedoms. The judge is more often found in neighborhoods and neighbourhoods and is therefore more accessible. The waiting lists in the justice system are still too long. At the same time, the catch-up after corona shows that there are also considerable catch-up possibilities in considerable time. In recent years, I have been working with your Chamber to find solutions that meet the broad need for legal protection. From the beginning, of course, it was clear that we could not simply limit ourselves to a defined route. The reality in which we live constantly changes, and rarely in a way you see coming. That's how we ended up in the corona crisis, which pretty much turned everything upside down and we still haven't figured it out. Mistakes surrounding adoption came to light. The rule of law, and hence the government, turned out to have failed more seriously in the supplementing affair than we all thought possible. Work on our rule of law is not yet complete. That's never really ready. I do believe that our system is strong enough to overcome this crisis, because we are speaking to each other about what has happened and we are forcing ourselves to learn from it. It is clear that we still have a lot to learn about how the government should deal with people, whether it is about adoption, surcharges, youth crime or debt issues, but let us continue our search for the habitable zone today on the basis of your questions. Mr. Chairman. I've divided the questions into a number of cubes. I want to start with the extraordinary group of prisoners who are dangerous in our prisons and courtrooms. The second block contains questions about punishment and recidivism. The third block is about prevention and youth crime. The fourth is about the problems with the childcare allowance. Then I will briefly consider legal aid. Next I come to the case law and then to everything that has been said and asked about algorithms, the Dutch Data Protection Authority and ethnic profiling. Finally, I deal with a number of remaining questions in the block of varia. Mr. Chairman. Three murders around a key witness, the arrest of an attorney in the ebi, threats to judges and prosecutors and a death list with the names of prison staff. You think to yourself: is this still the Netherlands? Think about what it's like to have your name on such a list with those people who work every day in a safe country and a safe society. Unfortunately, it is the reality and we have to deal with it, but I notice in all conversations with people around me that it has a huge impact. We will always have to be alert to stay one step ahead of these hardened boys, including in prison. The impact of organised crime on our country and on our rule of law does not stop when the leaders are caught in the collar. If they get a little chance, they continue their business and continue walking within the prison walls. We're dealing with a sub-class of criminals. This also calls for exceptional measures. In doing so, I focus on the vulnerable moments. They occur in the transport to and from the courthouse, and in the contacts with staff and the outside world. We discussed this in detail earlier, for example when we discussed the issue of Vught and the call made by the mayor to address the growing number of highly secure columns by his municipality. Sooner or later, that's gonna go wrong. Mr. Chairman. Last week I went to Italy with a delegation from the criminal justice chain. I was impressed by how in what you might call the "homeland of the Mafia," a different way of hearing, online court hearing, was worked. Thus, the number of risky transports of prisoners is limited. I think that we should learn from this and that we should also do more in the Netherlands. I was just talking about dilemmas, but here too there is a dilemma. On the one hand, you have the security and protection of society and, on the other hand, the rights that every suspect has. And in our rule of law they both weigh heavily. That is why we must, of course, ensure that we organise those online sessions in the further development so that we also respect the rights of the suspects and that they are not compromised. In the end, judges will have to make an assessment of this. We also invest in extra secure courtrooms with overnight accommodation options, a more physical way to mitigate risks. With all the measures we take, the emphasis is increasingly on a strict, austere and controlled regime. The Ebi regime is also very similar to the so-called Italian 41bis regime, to which Mrs Helder referred. But how exactly we are going to do that is also a question of how we are going to translate it into Dutch practice. It is not an easy cut and paste of Italian laws and regulations, because we need to do it in a smart way. We have to learn from that, but we shouldn't copy it. Mr. Chairman. Then something wider, punishment and recidivism. This was about an outside category, but there are a lot of people in prisons that we look at in a much broader way. Through corona both the influx of prisoners and the occupation in the prison system temporarily decreased, but by now we see the influx of the various parts of the Judicial Institutions Service increase. Next year, we're going to pay 154 million to catch that. On Mrs Michon's question, I say: no, we are not going to close prisons. That extra money we are going to bet mainly on recruiting and finding suitable staff, and that is difficult enough at this time of tightness. In the long term, in my view, we must try much more to absorb fluctuations in a smart and good way, because nobody is waiting for empty positions. But of course we also have a problem when we are dealing with cramped. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, we have improved the enforcement of prison sentences through the Law and protect the execution of prison sentences. The style is strict but humane, with an eye for society. Freedoms must be earned. No automatic parole. And in any case limit that vi to two years instead of the one third it used to be. We challenge convicts from day one to work on themselves, increasing their chances of a better life after detention. Let's do it! Let's do it! An inspiring example I have always found De Compagnie in Krimpen aan den IJssel. You could say that is essentially the precursor of the national concept of the limited security department. In the meantime, it is also the legal concept in the S&B Act. This concept involves working outside the walls during the day and sleeping in the evening. With proper guidance there is a prospect of a job, even after detention, which gives an ex-con more chance of staying on the right side of the line when his sentence is over. I can reassure Mrs Palland, because she asked for it. The benefits from Krimpen aan den IJssel are maintained and they are being reshaped in a project at the prison in Alphen aan den Rijn. It actually fits better there, because in Krimpen there is a highly secure regime, which means that entering and going out of prison also carries a risk. Something can always come with it. But it's actually an oppaign to Alphen aan den Rijn and then extend it all over the country. Since the introduction of the S&B Act on 1 July last, almost half of the BBA capacity has been used nationwide and this shows that there is a real need for such a regime. Mr. Chairman. We are also looking at short detentions, which Mr Sneller asked for. A few weeks ago, the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection issued an interesting opinion on this matter. This also gives clues to make sanctions even more effective. Now I do think that the RSJ has looked mainly at punished people. That is important, because we naturally want to ensure that someone who sits inside or suffers punishment is also prepared for the future. But I also want to see the impact on victims and on society as a whole. I believe that the RSJ report does not sufficiently reflect the main objective of punishment, namely retaliation and compensation for victims and the signal to society as a whole. That is exactly why I have also asked the WODC to look in a broader context at how punishments are understood more widely. This is without prejudice to the fact that, even now, there are elements in the report. It's in the new Code of Criminal Procedure. I also find more possibilities for electronic detention interesting; I am also working on this. But to say now that we really need to get rid of all the short prison sentences as quickly as possible, that is really a step too far for me. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Eerdmans...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u257	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u258	My feeling is that the WODC has also done research a number of times in the past. So I'm very curious about that extra investigation. Would the Minister be prepared, if it does not work out, to ensure that at least German practice is taken into account? Today, the RSJ had a congress on which that example was also explicitly discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u259	It is always good to see what we can learn from the countries around us. I'd like to take that with me. What I am talking about, and that is the specific question of that investigation... is that I want to look at what punishment means in terms of repetition, repetition, the return to bad behavior, for example in relation to community service and other forms of punishment. But I also want to see what the signal we're sending to society is. How does community service strike victims? That is a part that the RSJ does not take, but which I think we really should take with us if we want to make a judgment on short prison sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u260	Certainly, but if there is another practice in other countries, this element could also be looked at in the case of victims there. In my opinion, the RSJ also deals with, for example, the deterrent effect, regardless of the recurrent factors. I think the investigation is a little broader than the Minister's sketches. But again, if it is practice in other countries, then there is also experience that is useful for the prospects that the Minister considers important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u261	You should never sit on blinders, so looking abroad and what they do there can always help. Mr. Chairman. Mr Eerdmans wanted to know how I looked at the Anglo-Saxon principle of the three strikes and you're out principle. In the Netherlands, too, repeated acts are de facto aggravating and can lead to a judge eventually moving to the toughest and longest prison sentence we have, namely life imprisonment. Of course, I also see the benefits of the incapacitation effect when criminals go wrong over and over again. So if there is a pattern of repetition, then it is better to remove such persons from society for a long time. As long as they're inside, they can never hurt anyone outside. But I am not immediately in favour of an automatism where a certain number of times automatically leads to a life sentence. This also limits the court's discretion to consider, in the individual case, what an appropriate penalty is, of course, taking recidivism into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u262	Thank you. We have now generally talked about repeated and longer sentences. Very interesting, but I actually want to discuss with this Minister an urgent matter that is now being discussed. That's the case of Wik H., who was convicted in 2005 for the murder of a very young girl. It's known as the Schiedam park murder. He also wanted to kill a boy, but luckily that didn't work out. That little boy thought he was dead. Turns out he, the unsub, actually committed a lot more murders since 1994, when he was 16, until he was caught. He is now also suspected of at least being involved in a murder of another boy, for which he probably cannot be prosecuted. The bad news is he's got a low sentence and he's almost out. The good news is that that sentence was linked to TBs. I'm usually critical of that, but at least we have him in the system. The bad news about those TBs is he's already gone on leave and he's about to get out. I actually want to ask the Minister, also in view of the last accusations and the discussion we had just had about recidivism: get this dangerous man... Two years ago, his own council said that he was still very dangerous. Stop getting engaged to this man and just keep him inside those TBs clinics. I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u263	I find it complicated to talk about individual cases here, especially since last week's news is, of course, an ongoing case and an ongoing investigation that lies with the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is far too early for me to draw any further conclusions on this matter. More generally, I am pleased that Mr Markuszower has been a little more lenient about the TBs, because he has argued in this Chamber for many years that he wanted to abolish them. What I like about the system of TBs is that as long as someone still poses a danger to society, which within TBs is a reason not to let someone go on leave or fire TBs. That is also the reason that there are people who are not hundreds, but between 100 and 150 people who will stay in the TBs for life, their whole life, or at least for a very long time, simply because they are too dangerous to send out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u264	There goes my interruption, but as it were, I was provoked. This individual case proves that the TBS system is not working. We should have given this perpetrator of horrible murders, multiple and one suspicion of another murder, of course, life in prison. Now that that has not happened and we still have him in the system, in the tbs, where he has been on leave and so has been walking around freely in the Netherlands, I ask the Minister to do the best within that system I am still critical of it, but well, there is a system of keeping him in. I hear the Minister doesn't want to go into individual matters. You don't have to. I won't force him to do that. Yet I ask him not to go public, but to keep this man in behind the scenes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u265	I can't go into that and I'm not going into that either. It needs to be looked at all the time. Moreover, the case that has appeared in the news in this case did not take place afterwards. I think it's an older case. The person in question was convicted of the Schiedammer Park Murder. This case is from before that time. It is always necessary to look at all those who are in tbs and whether there is a danger to society. And if the answer to that is yes, that's a reason not to allow anyone a leave of absence. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to juvenile crime and prevention. I do not want to have some kind of good news show here, but I think it is good to say here that youth crime has decreased by half over the past decade. Those are spectacular figures, aren't they? I was struck by a point made by Mr Sneller. He said prevention isn't just about justice. That's right. In prevention, you're also talking about combating school dropout. I think that what has happened in education in that area has helped greatly to get young people to graduate, then to help them get a job and keep them out of poverty. Combating poverty, I think, is also a very good example. Care for safe neighborhoods also plays a role, also in the popular neighborhoods in the big cities. These are all subjects that lie with other departments, but of course they also help very much to make the Netherlands safer and safe. That's not gonna happen from the Justice Department. At the same time, I think we should also do more from the Justice Department about prevention. Because juvenile crime has been halved, but at the same time we can see that there has been an increase in seriousness in the proportion of juvenile crime that remains. I call stabbing incidents, street robberies, drug trafficking. Of course, we want to prevent young people from getting in touch with police and justice and becoming hard criminals. This is not easy, but it calls for a firm approach whereby repression and prevention go hand in hand. Effective prevention must also be done with each other. So that's more than just the Justice Department. This also requires partners, for example from the care sector, especially among young people. Mrs Michon said a few things about that. It also requires partners from the safety chain. And above all, it calls for very close cooperation at local level. The problems in Amsterdam are really different from those in Rotterdam. And even the problems in Amsterdam-Zuidoost are different from those in Nieuw-West. So it requires a very local approach. Together with scientists, municipalities, schools and police, we are trying to make crime prevention as effective as possible. That means a smart approach. That means: not looking for easy solutions, because they often don't work. It is not a question of opening up a can of youth workers. This helps, and also with education you can avoid a lot, but it is about the places where you can grab the young people. And the important thing is that you work with people with whom the young people can identify themselves. You have to go to the places where you find the young people, for example at school. If necessary, you start in elementary school. Mrs. Michon asked, "What do you do when you take someone off the street and you come into a family like that?" That is exactly what happens with, for example, the Top400 approach in Amsterdam. That's where they're really focused, and that's exactly what helps. It is sometimes difficult to get or keep the hardened older brother on the straight track, but often you can do a lot to keep those younger brothers and sisters in the system out of the clutches of crime. These are things that are discussed by default in the Health and Safety House. That is precisely what is said: you should not just look at the individual with criminal glasses. Criminal law is often about the individual. There they say: you have to look much more closely at the family situation as a whole. Mr. Chairman. My colleague has just said a few words about the increase in the financial space we have been given to work on prevention and the work of justice in the neighbourhood. I was struck by what some of your members said in the first term about making sure that the authority in the neighborhoods is clearly visible again, so district agents, district and district courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office, probation. So I am very positive about district justice in Rotterdam, Amsterdam and Eindhoven, and especially about that district justice in Eindhoven. It also focuses on young people and on criminal matters. Mrs. Michon asked for that. I believe it works when people see young people being tried from the neighborhood in the neighborhood. The pilot in Eindhoven is still running for a while, but we really need to gain experience and learn lessons that we can also use in other places in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I said something about education. Work is something like that. If you can make sure that young people see that they can earn their money in a normal way and can also work on status and a good future, without having to look over your shoulder every time if you don't run into a policeman on the left or right, just normal work, that helps, of course. Mrs Ellemeet asked if the dog is not in the way. If you actually look at how the vog is used for young people, the answer is no. Just look at the numbers. I believe there were 75,000 applications, of which only a small 80 were rejected. I do see a lot of unfamiliarity and cold feet. Many young people think: it makes no sense to ask for a vog, because I once came into contact with the police and the justice system and I was once convicted. But Justis, who does that, uses a very short look-back period and also looks at whether the fact is really heavy and whether it is a risk to the job you apply for. In other words, you get a dog a lot more often than a lot of young people think. I think that's where the key is. Can we help each other in that? I also like to go to Utrecht, where I think Mrs Ellemeet lives or lives. At least it's a town she knows well. Where I often talk about The Hague, because that is my city, I understand very well that she often talks about Utrecht here. I like to go to the people she's talking to to see exactly what's going on. But I suspect that the most profit can be made in more familiarity. Apply for that, because it is only rejected where there are very serious crimes, where there is indeed a risk for the profession that you want to practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u266	I think the Minister is right when he says that a lot of young people think "I can't do that, so I'm not going to ask". So that ignorance of the possibilities that exist, we must take away. I'm also asking the Minister how he's gonna do this. How do we solve this problem? Even though the numbers are relatively limited, they are at least under 23 years old, but above that they are of course more young people who apply for a vog, but do not succeed. I've been digging in, because we need to know exactly what we're talking about. I would like to cite an example of a young person who committed a crime and wanted to get on the right track. As a volunteer, he already did a good job in his neighborhood. The municipality wanted to use him as one of those credible messengers that Mr.Grapperhaus talked about; a very nice initiative. The vog was not awarded, not even when it was pointed out again. So, unfortunately, there are examples of them, although they may be relatively limited, but well, they are young people who matter when the vog was not provided, although everyone in the area said: that is a good example, which we can use as a credible messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u267	I'd like to dive into specific things like this. But let me give you an example. For a long time, not all jobs need a dog. So it seems that it is also the municipality that values it to say, if they are using this kind of young people, that they must be young people of unspoken behavior. If you see that we do not look back on young people under the age of 23 for more than two years, it should only be a problem in the case of a serious crime that was only recently committed. Then I can imagine, well, then we go into the casuism and I don't know enough about it that someone says: if you're going to work with young people and you've been convicted very recently, there's a risk. Suppose you've worked in the drug industry or committed a violent crime, then we want to make sure that, and so on. I'd like to take this under the arm to see what's going on. It will probably not be the only point where it is difficult, but I would like to reiterate that young people under the age of 23 only have recent crimes. Always looking at the risk in the lane for which the dog is applied for. And the third is that it only applies to a select number of functions, for functions where we actually want to know that there is no recent crime. I do not want to say 'we want to know that someone is of unspoken behavior', because if it is back a little longer, it should not be a problem for young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u268	I hear what the Minister says. I'm glad he's taking it so seriously and he wants to see what else we can do about it. Unfortunately, we do see that in the sectors in which these young people would like to work, for example as a youth worker, or in the care sector, more stringent requirements are imposed. In general, they are indeed quite generous, but in particular, the professions in which they are interested are subject to stricter rules. But I hear the minister right and I'm glad he's picking this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u269	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. The VVD asked about the parents. Mrs Palland specifically asked about this. It is, of course, primarily up to parents to ensure that they set a good example to their children and keep their children out of crime. Whoever needs help with that can get it. As a government, I think we should reach out to them. Of course, we know the complicated situations. At the same time, we can appeal to the citizenship of people, including parents. We see that despite the outstretched hand, not all parents are open to that. There are also parents who allow or reason the criminal acts of their children in the sense of "inside I am the boss, but outside it is up to the police." And, of course, that's not possible. That is precisely why I am currently seriously investigating how we can increase the responsibility of parents and enforce them and how we can make them more responsible, for example by increasing the civil liability of parents. In other words, if your child destroys something or if your child does harm, then you are responsible for it as a parent too. Mrs Palland asked whether parents of underage suspects were subject to an appearance obligation, for example, following involvement in the riots of recent times. Yes, that duty has existed since 2011. If the parent doesn't show up, the case will be stopped. Judges can then ensure that parents still appear in court. I agree with that too, because then a judge can appeal not only to the younger, but also to the parents. Mr. Chairman. As I said in my introduction, we are constantly looking for the balance and thus also for the balance between humanity and rule of law. I believe it was Alexander Solzhenitsyn, the former Nobel Prize winner, who once said "there's only one thing higher than justice, and that's morality." Simply put, doing good is nothing but doing what is prescribed. Something really went wrong in here. And then, of course, I am talking about the problems surrounding the childcare allowance. That's what my next block is about. People are in terrible trouble. They were right, but they didn't. They asked for attention, but weren't seen. The safety net that should be the right if institutions fail was not there for these people. Access to justice did not increase justice. In short, we have failed collectively here. The basis for this was not one apparent cause, but a complex interplay of factors. Legislation, implementation and case law did not have sufficient regard for the individual and the specific circumstances. There has been a great deal of reflection over the past year. I have great respect for the way in which justice investigates its role and does not spare itself in doing so. Last week there was the report of the Council of State; critical, honest, but also brave. And before that, there were the administrative judges of the regular case law. There was also the Venice Commission report, embraced from all sides, I believe, that it is not a lie. Merged together, these conclusions are harsh. Because of the desire for legal unity, the rigid follow-up of the hard line, a lack of consultation, freedom and contradiction, it became a legal fortress that did not open up its gates and did not protect citizens. Your Chamber is also right to be critical of this, including Mrs Kröger, Mrs Koekkoek and Mr Van Nispen. How do these individual reflections relate to the problem of cohesion and integrity? Shouldn't we be more structural about that? Perhaps it was a rhetorical question, but Mrs Koekkoek asked whether the rule of law is not crumbling. To begin with, the Venice Commission was, if you read it correctly, very critical on the one hand, but also constructive on the other. The Venice Commission notes that the Netherlands generally has a well-functioning rule of law, with strong democratic institutions. Despite the fact that a great deal has gone wrong and that it has affected a great many citizens, the Venice Commission also appreciates the fact that all these institutions have started immediately to restore confidence. It also indicates that there is room for improvement and has made several recommendations for this. Now the Venice Commission has reported directly to your Chamber. That was also a request from your room. Mr Omtzig asked: when can we receive a response from the cabinet? Let me tell him that I am more than willing to do that, if the Chamber appreciates it. But since it's a report addressed to the Chamber, I thought it was about doing it on my own initiative. In any case, the Cabinet will use this advice in the preparation of the task of the constitutional state commission to be set up, which will soon be shared with your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I said something about justice. Of course, the cabinet itself has taken on a lot by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u270	I want the Minister to complete this block with his contribution and then you will have every opportunity for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u271	I'll warn you this is a little longer; a block. The cabinet itself has also started work and has launched almost 90 actions to tackle the problems and regain the damaged confidence of citizens. These are measures aimed at not only restoring and compensating the tax authorities, but also improving the legal and regulatory environment in the future, looking more closely at the human dimension of implementation, strengthening our rule of law. In this light, the cabinet is preparing the State Commission and implementing the Omtzigt motion. I will deal with two or three major things that we are now working on in concrete terms. One of the steps to reduce human size is the commitment of the Cabinet to incorporate proportionality and customization as a reinforced standard, not only in sectoral laws and regulations but also in the General Administrative Law Act. My ministry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are working hard to come up with a bill of amendment Awb. We aim to consult this in spring 2022. With these adjustments, we want to provide legal support for a more citizen-oriented approach and more tailor-made services. Changes that we want to make to this legislative proposal include possibilities to deviate from policy rules if they lead to disproportionate outcomes and more room for administrative bodies to deal with a late objection in substance. We also want to encourage administrative bodies to contact people who have objected more often, not to say simply to people "oh, you have a problem, you only object or appeal" but also a more human face from the law. In doing so, we are considering the application of general principles of good governance to articles of law with binding powers, i.e. articles of law that do not really allow exceptions in sectoral laws. It is, of course, inevitable that, in practice, there are also cases which the sectoral legislator, and together we are, has not taken into account and justify that derogation from a formally binding legal provision. In this situation, there must be no doubt that the general principles of good governance are really guiding. A beautiful and also original point by Mr Omtzigt. He asked about the administrative loop that is already in the Awb: the ability to fix things. You could say: give citizens that opportunity, a kind of civil loop. I find that an interesting idea that can certainly be investigated and that I will take part in the exploration about the amendment of the General Administrative Law Act. That is therefore a commitment in his direction. The aim of all this is to make the AWB more citizen-oriented. The second major point we do from the Justice Department is to look seriously at legal aid in this kind of dispute. We always look at tax disputes to see if someone is able to defend their own interests. That in itself is not so strange in the base either. If you're talking about tax attacks, there are millions. It is impossible to automatically grant legal aid to anyone who objects. You have to keep looking at how complicated the case is. What exactly can you expect from people? This applies only to objections, because in principle there is always the right to an addition in the case of appeals. Looking back, I can see, and you can see in those reflection reports, that it was said that in practice it did not make much sense to apply for an appeal, because you were still unsuccessful by the court, at least on appeal by the Council of State. That is the informal dynamic that started, to my deep regret. But formally speaking, these people were entitled to such an addition by appeal. Back to self-reliance, because I think that's the big point. When it comes to self-reliance, things have changed. In 2013, this is already a short time ago, the working instructions of the Legal Assistance Board have already been adapted for childcare surcharge cases involving host parent or mediation agencies with disorderly accounting. Those are, in fact, the fraudulent mediation agencies that a lot of parents have fallen victim to. Since 2013, the right to an attorney has also been in the opposition phase. Afterwards, we took new steps, also in response to the POK report. For example, I asked the WODC to look at that self-reliance criterion and its application in a very fundamental and critical way. Shouldn't you expand that in the future or how can you apply it better? Do not say that everyone is entitled to that at the objection stage, because then it really is fatally stuck. How can we do this in a better and reasonable way? In anticipation of that, we have reached an arrangement that allows for the inclusion of so-called advice in complex cases, so that those people will receive more support at their objection stage. So we are also drawing lessons from what has happened in the area of legal aid. The third major point we are taking up is the debate on the constitutional review. The decision-making process will no longer be carried out by this cabinet, but preparations are being made. I also note that the views on this matter have changed in this House. For a long time there was no majority in favour of constitutional review, but very recently there was. That also forces us to look at how to shape this in a good way. I think I can help for a well-informed debate with my colleague from BZK by getting that question clearly on the table. Is there a new body, a constitutional court, or is all judges allowed to review the Constitution? Are we going to test the whole Constitution or just part of it? Another important question is: what judgments can the court make to a judge? Destroying a law, abandoning it or declaring it only in violation of the Constitution? In other words, what are the exact consequences? I assure you that I will return to that shortly with my colleague from BZK, on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u273	I can finish the block now. I have one last piece, and that's about the Council of State. Perhaps that is the point for which Mr Van Nispen is walking to the interrupting microphone. The question he put on the table together with Mr Omtzigt is: should the case law not be removed from the Council of State? Should it not be included in the ordinary case law, with the possibility of being brought before the Supreme Court? In the debate on whether to introduce a general rule of law, in addition to the existing tax case, I think it is important to take back the call made by the four highest courts and the Council for the 2017 case law to refrain for the time being from very large institutional interventions. In itself, it is a relevant discussion to see how the administrative justice system is set up in the Netherlands. We had that discussion at Rutte II and that was not a great success. It has done a lot of predatory work on the existing organisations. A lot of energy went into other things than ensuring that businesses and citizens get justice right and fast. Having said that, I also believe that adding cassation is not desirable either because of the nature of administrative decisions. The administrative court does not itself decide on citizens' legal claims, but reviews the decisions of the board. There is already more legal protection in this process at other stages than, for example, in private law or in criminal law. Think, for example, of forms of opinion and objection, before you are entitled to appeal and appeal at all. What also plays a role here is that good governance requires a smooth handling of objections to administrative decisions. That too is something that is being put at risk with the introduction of cassation law. If you look at the vast majority of the cases that the Council of State does, then 70% foreign law and 20% environmental law. You can imagine that in matters in those jurisdictions by definition you want them not to last very long, because you want clarity whether people can stay here or have to stay back and because you actually want to go through environmental law, because there are other interests involved. That in brief. Finally, a point of principle. I would also find it wrong to send the case-law to intervene institutionally and reform in displeasure statements, especially now that the administrative courts and the Council of State have also taken a critical look at their own actions. The Council of State therefore seems quite capable of taking on its role as the highest judicial authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u274	I would now like to give the Members of Parliament the opportunity to make their interruptions. I call Mr Van Nispen of the SP, then Mr Azarkan of DENK and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u275	A great deal has been said, but I have to respond to the Minister's last point, and then I come to my interruption. The Minister is now acting as if we were intervening on this point in response to displeasure statements. That's the last thing I'm doing here. It's a point of principle. In my opinion, the Council of State is far too close to the government. I think that's what the SP has been saying for years, and that's what a majority of the House has been saying for a very long time. The previous bill was stranded because an amendment of mine threatened to make it when the government made a pot of it. That's when the government withdrew the entire bill. That's how it actually went, and that's still a real shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u276	And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u277	Yes. My question concerns what the Minister said earlier about access to justice for victims of the childcare allowance scandal. I have a question for this Minister for Legal Protection, because he just said it again. Earlier in an interview, this minister said: you cannot say that the victims of the child care allowance affair had no access to the law, because they eventually came to the Council of State. How can the Minister say that? There has been unprecedented injustice to so many people, to so many people who had no access to justice. That was the whole point. They didn't get their information from the IRS. They didn't get a listening ear anywhere. They had no right to an addition for an attorney. How could the Minister say this? Does he realize that he's really offended a lot of victims with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u278	It is, I think, a good thing that I am making myself clear, because Mr Van Nispen has a right point. What I have wanted to say, also in terms of the complexity we have had to deal with here, is that access to justice is more than access to justice. Often I use that phrase exactly the other way around. Then I say, you don't necessarily have to go to court to stand in your right or get justice. Because I really believe that we should not live in a society in which everything is juridized. But it goes exactly the other way around here. People had access to justice here, but they didn't get their rights in the end. And that shows something of the complexity in this. In my view, we are all at the stage of the law, the executive, the judiciary, to see how we can do this better in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u279	It would be a real credit to the Minister if he took that statement back in that way. 'Cause I think it's really hurtful. He just said it again: victims did have access to justice, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u280	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u281	Yes, in that context, the Minister just said it. In the interview, he literally said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u282	Minister, I'm gonna turn on your microphone so everyone can hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u283	I have indicated here that what I wanted to point out is that, although these people had access to justice, they did not, at the end of the day, achieve their rights and thus did not have access to justice. But it shows something of complexity, and that's what I've been trying to point out in a one-on-one discussion. Would it have been different if there had been more opportunities for legal aid, or would it have been different if...? No. It's en-and-and. The very painful thing is that these people have not been able to count on the basic principles that should have protected them in a rule of law, namely access to justice, namely good laws, namely a fair government. We failed on all those parts. So let there be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u284	Fortunately, that's a lot more nuanced than that ugly statement in the interview. I continue to resent it, but at least this is a lot more nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u285	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u286	The following is all the more remarkable. The minister here says he's serious, and I believe he is. The Minister for Legal Protection wants to prevent this from happening in the future. Among other things, he goes to one of the pillars he mentioned, to see if legal aid can be granted more often, for example at the objection stage. This is also one of the recommendations of the case law. Good. But how is it that the legal aid finances for the coming years are going to end very quickly? I know what the Minister's gonna say next. "Yes, there will be a solidarity tax for commercial law firms; there will be profits due to the system review." You can't, because you can see that there's a lot more things to do at the same time. What is it? Is there gonna be business? Will more people be entitled to an attorney in the future? Or does the Minister stick to his point, namely 'no, in the future it should only cost less'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u287	It is a false contradiction that Mr Van Nispen sketches here. I believe that anyone who needs a good lawyer to finally get his right should have access to it, including those with a small scholarship. That remains right in everything we do in the legal aid reforms. And yes, then I will see where that can be extended, where people may be wrongly now saying to people "that is self-reliant, you should do it yourself." So we need to do more there. In fact, I have already started to do so by setting up a temporary arrangement for this. This is without prejudice to the fact that we have to look again and again, also widely, whether there are other ways of resolving this, outside a course of justice. I prefer that big executives pick up the phone a little more often and say to people "what is your problem, can we perhaps solve it?" then give back the standard reaction of decades: o, you have a problem, write a statement of objection or appeal. That's an important part of all these plans. In other words, there are several ways of giving people justice more quickly. So we both have to do: "When do you need a good lawyer, and where should that be extended?', but also "what can we do to dejuriate?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u288	The Minister says that it was a rather complex matter: everything went wrong; we all have to take care of it; it has to do with the legislator, with the role of the Chamber, with the role of the cabinet. That's all true. However, I would like to ask this Minister for Legal Protection where it was in the department of the Ministry of Justice, let me put it very specifically, either at the Directorate-General or in the case of increases in legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u289	On a lot of fronts. Wrong processing of personal data in models that discriminated against. Look at the statements of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. So that was in the performance. It may have gone wrong before that. I think we should just take a critical look at the legislation: have we been clear in the legislation? Yesterday 26a passed by again: what exactly is meant by it? Very often, I took that article and read it and looked at the legal history. In it there was quite a lot of space in the area of how you should then recover and what is reasonable. In the end, this has been explained very strictly: the all-or-nothing approach. But it cannot be traced back to these laws and regulations. We could, of course, have been more precise about this as legislators, together, on the front. That's a second one I don't think went well. A third is that it did not go well in legal protection. If people are then crushed by a government, if they are wronged by a government or if they are wronged, then they can go to a judge to get them right, but there too it has gone wrong. In other words, it has gone wrong on many fronts. I am really overwhelmed by this: this should not happen again. We really need to do everything we can to see what we can do in order to learn really strong and hard lessons for the future. But it is not a question of 'if we had extended this arrangement, it would not have happened'. That's why it's wide. That is why there is a huge task. We need to do this together: we need to put more time into good law and regulation, better look at the advice we get from the Council of State, better listen to what we get back from our implementing organisations when we come up with laws and regulations that they say are going to get stuck in practice. We need to spend more time on and invest more in our implementation organisations. There are people who love spending more time on this and say: oh, you have a problem, can I help you? But the hustle and bustle don't get you anywhere. And then you go back to that standard phrase: send me an objection. We need to see what more we can do on the back so that judges can do their job properly. And we need to make sure that this is the stick I'm going through to make sure that there is more talk between the three pillars. If the judge says 'here it is', then we should be able to do something about it in front, in legislation or in implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u290	Thank you. The last interruption for Mr Azarkan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u291	Yes, Mr. Chairman, and I'm going to use it well. The last 90% of the answer was not what I meant. I appreciate that, but that's not what it was about. What matters to me is that the civil servants did not actually offer legal protection in the implementation of what they had to do. Because if you look at the answer, then the minister did bring up the GDPR; that's for sure. But what they actually did was very bad. What they did, and I am committed to saying this: the oral withdrawal of objections; that has nothing to do with legislation, that cannot be done at all. To impose an intent on gross guilt, not on the basis of the review as it had to be; that is not allowed at all. To motivate people on the basis of which people didn't get a supplement anymore. To remind people of the possibility of objection: that did not happen. Keeping pieces in the process. And so there are a few more. Look, if you're doing 18 months dealing with an objection, that means leaving those people in uncertainty for 18 months. The General Administrative Law Act says that it can't be done at all, and it happened massively. So what I'm talking about is that I expect the Secretary of State for Legal Protection to tell me that when he reads this, when he goes to Supplements and says, "What have these officials done here, why did they break the law here?" These parents got into trouble, apart from access to justice, because that's all later. Those officials, and we read that in the letter of 12 March - and I would read it very well if I was the Minister for Legal Protection...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u292	I know him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u293	There are things that go even further than the principle of motivation. So in many areas of the General Administrative Law Act, the AWI, these officials have simply not done their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u295	That has something to do with legislation. They don't do that for other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u296	I know it. And, of course, Mr Azarkan is right. There has just gone a lot wrong, and that has also been acknowledged. And at the same time, because we know this and my colleague in the tax field has been standing here and I think that this has also been discussed extensively here with the Chamber of Commerce, I do not think it is very chic to do this again as a Minister for Legal Protection, from another department.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u297	It's your job!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u298	Yes, my job is to discuss this thoroughly at the table where we do it: that is when we have Cabinet Councils. And I'm shoulder-to-shoulder with my colleague Van Huffelen, because she's working incredibly hard to recognize this, to get that Tax Administration back in line, and at the same time to put everything on top of everything to work on compensation. But I do not play down what you say, because what has happened is horribly thinly overdoing it, that debate that has already taken place around the problems surrounding the child care allowance here with my colleague in Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u299	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u300	Am I really done already, have I really had eight?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u301	Yeah, sure. And your last interruption is always the longest too, I notice. Mr. Otzigt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, thanks to the Minister for his willingness to respond to the Venice report. I like that. And only on the documents where it is appropriate for the government to react, because there are also documents in it that concern either the Chamber or the judiciary, and I can imagine that there is some restraint in that. Also thank you for the commitment to respond to where the judge...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u303	Sorry to interrupt, but you can also do this in your second term, the commitments there are and thank the Minister for that. So I'll give you a chance to make a question or comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u304	Mr President, in that list I asked another question: to respond to the abdominal pain comments as well. That is what the Minister says, but I would like to ask him to be able to get a response on all points there, and perhaps just to ask the judiciary to do so in writing, not through conversations or anything like that. Just tell us publicly what is going on so that you can get as little as possible into that state power clamp as you can from what is appropriate to the judiciary. Just ask for an explanation: where do you see problems? And then send that in copy to the Cabinet and to us, and then do what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u305	Is it okay if the Minister responds to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u306	The second question was: do you still want to respond, not only to the Constitution but also to the law on supervision? Will it wear off? Mrs Kuik's motion contained two requests. There has been talk about the Constitution, but also about the law on supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u307	I'm gonna have to check on that last one. So, if you'll allow me, I'll be returning to surveillance in the second term. What I'm doing is getting into that conversation: what exactly is there? I think this is from the Council of State report. Or is this from regular justice? This is from the comment of the regular case-law. Then I'll talk to you about that. And then I leave it either to them, or I put it back. I'm gonna admit that's what I'm gonna do. You have a right to what exactly is behind it. That is, of course, justified. Two. What I am now promising you on the basis of this one report must be done much more structuralally, I think. Because, of course, judges often encounter things they say: we have to judge here, because this is the law, and yet it wrings. I think we should take advantage of this more often. There must be proper feedback at the back where that law is applied, so that we, as legislators or executives, also have to look at where we need to adapt our practices or rules. So that is a somewhat broader commitment towards Mr Omtzigt. I'll say it on this report, and I'll put it back. But the intention behind that is also that I am very much watching you institutionalize it. I would also like to give this state committee an important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u308	Thank you for coming back to that later. I am still a little stuck with a few points about the Council of State. I would therefore like to invite the Minister to give further consideration to this. The first factual question is the following. Pels Rijcken wrote two notes on the childcare allowance in 2009 and 2011. It is said that the employee who wrote it is not on the Council of State. But I asked about the two authors of both notes. Only one note has been answered, only that of 2009 and not that of 2011. There were two author names in it. They're neatly painted. That's fine. But I'd like to know if those authors are involved as judges after that. And I want to know how conflicts of interest are prevented in the guise of conflict of interest, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u309	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Can you respond to that already, or will you do so in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u310	I don't have that ready. Following the questions from Omtzigt yesterday, I checked them out. The Council of State has assured me that the author of that note is not the one who is now on the side of justice. I believe that the whole of the Council of State is about two or three or four people. Two of them are in the Advisory Section, so they are completely separate from the part of the case law. The other two are in the Administrative Court Department. This is a point I need to find out, but I don't know if that's gonna work for the second term. Otherwise, I will return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u311	I shall come back to the points raised by my colleagues. We are now looking very neatly at what we can do better, but we do not realize that the Tax Administration itself has broken thirteen laws, and that is still not a complete list. We're still waiting on the complete list. What do you do when a government agency violates certain laws for years? And what do you do when the Council of State apologizes but doesn't reconsider the verdict? And then the government responds in the written answers: you do not need to revise it, because we are compensating it. But that's what a judge is for. You have a judge in case the government makes a mistake. In administrative law, the administrative judge corrects. And it's not about this statement being uncomfortable. It is not like the debate on Urgenda, on which there are different opinions here. No, this discussion is about a false statement. The Minister really went beyond colleagues in the cabinet. Article 26 of the Awir certainly did not require this to be concluded in any way. So why isn't that corrected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u312	There was a question before: what do you do when you intervene? How do you make sure that... I think that will happen, but you should have that debate with my colleague. Two is that the Council of State does not have the option of automatically reviewing. The law doesn't offer that possibility. That should always be based on a request. All the requests they receive about them will be dealt with. It may therefore be the case that these rulings are revised on the basis of specific requests from parents. The question is, of course, whether there will be a lot of requests for revision, because the administrative body, in this case the Tax Administration, has itself reversed its decision, which means that the decision underlying it, which was contested, no longer exists. I can imagine people saying: and yet I want to get my right there and have this case reviewed. Then it's a matter of principle. Then the Council of State will look into it. But they can't do that on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u313	I understand that it cannot be done on its own initiative, but I would like to have discussions with the Council of State on this. Because we all believe that these statements should not remain in law, and now it is being deposited with the parents. Those rulings came about after the Tax Administration broke the law, waiting for the General Administrative Law Act for one and a half years! The files have been destroyed and the Archive Act has broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u314	And your question is whether the Minister is going to talk to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u315	No, my question is: how come the whistleblowers have been punished, they even got parole and no one at all in the official service has had a reprimand? So...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u316	It really needs to be shorter. It is an important subject, I understand, but I would also like to call on you to put the questions a little shorter. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u317	The revision of those statements, which I have already indicated does not make much difference to the parents because the underlying decision has now been reversed, is something the Council of State cannot do on its own initiative. The law doesn't offer that possibility. I could talk to them about it, and I did it last night, but then this is the answer I get. What they tell me is that there is the possibility of revision at the request of the judge and that they are prepared to take a serious look at it. Then it is up to the individual seeker to see if he wants to review his own case, despite the fact that the underlying decision has now been reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u318	Okay, I'll wait for those revisions. But I still have the problem that... that is also the essence of what Mr Azarkan has just said. If mistakes are made in the government, we have the right of administration to do so. Let's just be honest: a government makes hundreds of millions of decisions a year, and a few of them will go wrong. That's okay, but it's just a civilian thing. But in this supplementing affair, just before the elections, the government had to admit that it simply failed to enforce 13 laws for years, and a few more were added after the last report of the Personal Data Authority. Then you have the problem that hundreds of thousands of decisions have been taken illegally, that they have remained in place for citizens, that those who took them have no consequences and that the whistleblowers we have spoken have either been transferred or been fired. Then you're not serious about the recovery, are you? How are we going to ensure in our rule of law that if the government does not comply with laws, it also has consequences for the public service or the people who consciously implement them? You can't wait a year and a half to decide on an objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u319	When it comes to the unlawful decisions on the recovery of claims, the Tax Office or the State Secretary of Finance has annulled those decisions. In fact, a great deal is currently being done to accommodate and compensate parents for the damage they have suffered as a result of the decisions taken earlier and which have now been reversed. Two is, what do you do when something so horrible goes wrong in an organization? I'm from classic school. In the end, in our democracy, there is only one person to speak to: the responsible govern ment and, in the broadest case, the cabinet. That is precisely why, following the conclusions of the parliamentary interrogation committee, the cabinet has drawn the ultimate consequence and offered its complete resignation. As a consequence, I am also from the school that we should not discuss individual measures towards civil servants here in this house. You may appeal to me if something goes wrong with me in the tent and you may contact the Minister of Finance if something goes wrong with the Tax Office. We will always be responsible for this and we will always accept it when you say that I am done. But we must be careful to talk in this house about individual officials or measures towards individual officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u320	This remark was not about individual officials. You hear no names from me, you hear no numbers from me; you hear something else from me. You will hear from me the plea that whistleblowers, who have now been fired or transferred, should be given protection. You will also hear from me the plea that, if civil servants fail to comply with something for years and have consequences, they must be able to find a place to do so. I'm not gonna open the pikmeer arrests today, but there's the problem that this citizen is empty-handed. Those people have been calling for years. They've been going on trial for years. They were thrown out of their homes, they couldn't eat and they couldn't get justice anywhere. Those involved have had zero consequences. This is the breeding ground for a new affair, because if it doesn't affect those who do it, then a failure will remain intact for longer. If we keep the culture of firing the whistleblowers, then abuses will last longer. I would ask the government to reflect on that not to be necessary tonight on how we can resolve abuses internally, so that they do not make it to the Chamber and so that no parliamentary questions are asked. They just need to be solved internally at the organizations where things go wrong. That didn't happen here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u321	I can't see to what extent that happened or didn't happen. It's about an execution service that doesn't fall under my responsibility. I hope you will forgive me for not making any statements about this in this debate. But more generally: things sometimes go wrong with my execution services too, fortunately not in this size. Measures are sometimes taken there. That is not what I am talking about, because that is not really relevant to the political debate at the end of the day. But in many cases no action is taken, also because people themselves see that something has gone horribly wrong. That is a moment when you say: I face that and I will not let that happen again. I understand the harsh words and also the anger of Mr Omtzigt. How could something so horrible go wrong? But what that ultimately means for the people who work in these kinds of organizations... I am in that sense nuanced. Sometimes a tough measure is needed, but sometimes facing a big mistake is the best learning moment you can ever experience in your career. Mr President, I am moving on to legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u322	I want to suspend at 7:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u323	I think we're coming a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u324	What about the removals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u325	You can do this. As I informed the Chamber earlier, you will be informed very soon. I sent that to you in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u326	Your last question, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u327	Then it goes to the second term. Then I come to another point with another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u328	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u329	Mr. Chairman. Legal aid, finance. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Sneller asked. It is good to point out that we are putting a definitive line under the discussion on tariffs. They are brought to the Van der Meer level. Whatever that series is, we are not going to say: we are short of money, we are going to cut it down again. A big line under that discussion. I think we're incredibly happy about that. At the same time, I think you should also look at the changes that we have started. They could be worth something. The cabinet intends to look more broadly at the commercial offices and that branch, say the well-earned part of the legal profession, to also contribute to this. I think that we will then be able to come up with the money that we have made in structural terms to do so neatly and coveringly within the budget of the Justice Department. A brief response to a few points........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Can't you get to the front a lot more? Can't it be more low-threshold? Mr Van Nispen made a plea for an extension of the houses of justice. We have often crossed swords about legal aid, but this was now a part of which we are both very enthusiastic. I really appreciate what his thinking adds to what I started about two or three years ago. This is a form of easily accessible legal advice, also in combination with municipalities, because you often need the social domain to solve problems properly. In his own-initiative paper, he actually adds something to it. He says: see if you can also have a form of accessible justice, so that it really becomes a house of advice, help and justice. I find that interesting. We started that in Heerlen. If the experiences there are good, I will, of course, see how we can roll that out wider in the Netherlands. What helps is that next year we will also take a step with the proximity judge. Mrs. Michon asked when we'd get to work on that. Now forms of district courts are only possible on a voluntary basis. With the Experiment Law, it will soon be possible to do so more obligingly to the parties. Then we can really take a step. I hope this will fly next year. Then there's the point about mediation. Mrs Koekkoek and Mrs Kathmann asked. Mediation is part of legal aid. In some cases, people have been helped faster and better with a mediator. That is what we are trying to give a good place in forms of legal aid and legal aid. That is without prejudice to what I agree entirely with Mrs Kathmann that you should be able to fall back on a lawyer if you have to go to court because you can't get out with that other party. One doesn't rule out the other. Then the judiciary. There, a lot of work is being done to eliminate backlogs. In the meantime, we can see that the work stocks are back to the level before corona. That's worth a big compliment. It was a bit less when the courts were physically closed for some time, but there really was a catch-up. Both on administrative and civil law and on crime, the pile has shrunk by a little less than 20% in a year and a half. All we can see is that there is still a great deal of work to be done on the offence. It was asked if you would then continue, because the intention was not only to eliminate the corona disadvantages, but also the delays that were already there. That was part of the price agreement at the time. That will be quite a task with the delay we have suffered as a result of corona. However, if all parties make a bit of effort and are willing to adapt their way of working, I can see at the same time that you can make a catch-up in a very short time. Both the justice system and I insist on eliminating these other delays by the end of 2023. It certainly helps, I say to Mrs Koekkoek, that more and more is being digitised. Of course, that also makes things smoother and faster. Take, for example, the first instance in criminal matters. In the meantime, about 99% of the cases between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary are dealt with digitally. That's gonna speed things up a lot. Deficits. Mr Van Nispen had heard that almost all the courts are red. He asked me what that was like. It's really connected to covid. We can see that makes it more expensive. It takes more time for cleaning, it takes more time for technique to do things with video. On the other hand, there are fewer cases. Of course, we just have to solve that. That can also be solved, because if the case law is inadequate at the end of the year, there is a legal obligation to clean it up. This year, like last year, we could look at the so-called hardness clause. Normally we say to the courts: if you have done less business, you will get less money. However, these are exceptional situations, which make us do things a little differently. That is what we have done in the past year. I do not have the impression that they are structural deficits, precisely because we have looked very precisely at the price agreements what justice needs to do in order to do its job properly. That's what we've had checked out. Mr. Chairman. Then legal protection in the digital world. I will start with the Personal Data Authority, which, of course, plays an important role in many of the themes involved: digital government, artificial intelligence, algorithms and data trafficking. What about this funding? In this budget, we continued the occasional financing of last year. That means six million per year in structural terms. This means that the AP is now on a budget of 26 million, also within the margins of the KPMG report. You can then have a discussion about whether that is enough or not enough. I also know what the chairman of the AP thinks about that. If you look at the enormous growth that the organisation has experienced, with a doubling of the budget since the introduction of the GDPR, we really shouldn't be ashamed of that. In fact, I also read a number of critical things in the KPMG report. It says that the organisation must also do something to prevent a number of growth seizures. Better digitisation and better organisation of business processes need to be developed. Putting more money on top of that every time is not the answer, I say. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the question about algorithms and ethnic profiling. Let me start with algorithms. This is often done very mysteriously, but in the end an algorithm is a number of steps or a set of instructions to perform a task automatically. If that's a self-learning thing and if there's some kind of feedback, we'll talk about AI. Soon it'll be more complicated. Algorithms are everywhere in our lives. They help us enormously, in the medical corner, in the government or in the justice system. Algorithms are used everywhere. We can now see that further digitisation and also the application of artificial intelligence brings with it new risks and very complex issues. These are also questions about how far and where we want to give them a role in our lives. I do not think we should all think that there will be robotic judges in front of us who will determine whether the law has been properly applied or not. We always want a human component in that. What are we doing in that respect? I think it is important to continue to stress here that algorithms are not in a legal vacuum. It is ultimately about decisions that are being taken. That's what the Awb's for. So you have to motivate that, that has to be transparent, et cetera. Take something like damage and the civil law principle. Where damage has been caused, it must be compensated. Discrimination is prohibited. It shouldn't really matter whether it takes place through an algorithm or otherwise. In short, new technology does not fall into a legal vacuum. But it's gonna take a lot more than that. For example, the GDPR has put a head on that. Take the additional rules that have been established and prohibit automated decision-making. This affects people to a considerable extent. At present, there is an AI regulation in Brussels. It lays down additional requirements for high-risk systems for safety and fundamental rights. An AI system will therefore have to meet stricter requirements to be used in the future. So what are we doing at the moment, also learning from the problems of the childcare allowance? Of course, the BZK colleague has already said a few things about this. We are not going to wait for European regulation. We are also going to see where the vulnerabilities are and what we can do ahead of European regulation, with impact assessments and mapping risky algorithms, and also just by stopping or restoring if there are elements that are not okay or if there are risks of discrimination. Mr. Chairman. With this I make the bridge to ethnic profiling. Let me point out that any public organisation is subject to the prohibition of discrimination under Article 1 of the Constitution. If we look at settled case law, the distinction in treatment results in discrimination where there is no objective and reasonable justification for it. Therefore, there must be serious reasons for making a justified distinction on the basis of ethnic origin and nationality. For example, the Supreme Court has ruled that a distinction based on nationality may be justified under certain specific circumstances, for example in the context of the fight against crime, of crime, where there is cross-border crime, where the perpetrators cross national borders. If you want to do something about trafficking in human beings, and you know it comes from certain countries, then it makes sense for the KMar to look at the borders and where they come from, instead of looking at random how or what. You can all imagine that. But once again, all of this within the framework of our Constitution, where the prohibition of discrimination applies, of course, and it is the moral duty and effort of everyone in all government organisations to do so. Then I'm at my last block, varia. I couldn't place those subjects anywhere else. Mr Van Nispen asked about domestic adoption and the issue of limitation. Can't we give up on that, because that's what we did when we adopted abroad? I do not think that is appropriate at the moment. That actually has to do with the following. With international adoption there was a very solid report, which also cracked critical notes about the role of the government in it. That's not there for domestic adoption. Not yet. We don't know what's going on, I think this investigation needs to be done, but there really is a difference. In the end, it is always the judge who considers whether a claim to limitation is really reasonable. And since there are a number of cases going on, it would be my plea to leave it to the judge to review it on a case-by-case basis. Another subject is gambling advertising. Mrs Bikker is right. I, too, often come across these ads when I watch a football game. In fact, it was also a bit the expectation that this would happen. The market in the Netherlands has opened up the legal To point this out, advertising and advertising are used. Otherwise, no one knows it's there, and you have to go somewhere. Especially when the market is opened, the various legal providers who are under strict supervision and on which we maintain well try to say: look at me, come to me and don't go to the other. I think it is also important for channeling that we keep our finger on the wrist, but that we should also just offer space at the moment. Then it's good to see how that develops and if it doesn't get too much. But to intervene on that at the moment, I would really find that too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u330	I remember vividly that we were talking here about the law and the channeling, also because the Secretary of State at that time had a different role and the debate was spicy. One thing was very clear to the Minister when we talked about this channeling: vulnerable people should not suffer from this new policy. And that's exactly where I'm concerned, because when I look at the size of this advertising and the moments chosen by the gambling industry, I don't see any of that. Then I don't see how these vulnerable people are protected, those young people and those children. When I look at online, I really see lots of advertisements in all kinds of places where many children are also sitting. YouTube, for example, while this Chamber adopted a motion saying: don't do that, at least make sure that advertising is not available until 9 p.m. Take the matches of our beautiful Dutch team, which is still going on. On TV and in the commercials around those football matches the vulnerable are reached, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u331	The law is very clear that advertising should not focus on young people. So you can't advertise children's shows. You can't use appealing young people's figures. The laws and regulations are clear on that point. If it's broken, the Ksa will intervene. The law doesn't say that advertising should never end up with young people. Young people watch television. Young people are on the Internet. Young people also watch football. Then it may indeed happen that young people also see these advertisements. Of course, you can never completely prevent that. For me, the sharp line that we need to look at and on which the Gaming Authority also tests and maintains is: is advertising aimed at young people? In that case, it is contrary to the law and then there is ground to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u332	But then the line becomes very thin, because we are talking about "it should not be a well-known footballer who is now active." We all know that all those King TOTOs that are now being used are famous footballers, but they are no longer active. Every young man, every 11 or 12 year old male in a youth football team, knows that, too. That makes it a thin line and I don't think the gambling industry takes responsibility. I'm really asking the Minister to address them to that. To be honest, I think it is high time we set stricter rules in this way, because it seems that they do not take responsibility for themselves. At that point it was so agreed to protect vulnerable people and that just doesn't happen, not on TV and not online.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u333	I think that Mrs Bikker and I differ somewhat in this regard. Her predecessor here in this house has made the law on a number of parts a bit sharper, with age limits and window times on television. If she gets the impression that advertisers don't stick to that, then I'll give her a good one, because I'll go straight after it. Then I also think that we need to maintain it. But, of course, there's a limit somewhere. When you say it shouldn't be possible in the case of active athletes, you have to look at that. If you say it should be about role models under 25 years old, well-known Dutch people over 25 years old are allowed to do so. If you say that you have window times on television, then it is allowed after that window time, or on other media, where window times are more complicated, like on the internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u334	The Minister doesn't go into my point about online. It has been said Chamber-wide: develop something for that. That's one. Two. The Minister appoints all the rules, but those rules had a purpose. The goal was to protect vulnerable people. We also thought about children and young people. I just got e-mails from parents saying the following. "My son, a young teenager, is gambling tonight through TOTO at the football matches. Was that the intention, Mrs Bikker?" Well, I'll say, no, I didn't mean to. There was talk of channeling of players who were gambling online somewhere in Malta, or I don't know where. This is a different story. The Minister could then stick to the rules, but they had a purpose. I'm really calling on him to work on that goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u335	If that is the case, then that is a serious point. When children gamble online via TOTO, they are offered illegally. That's a ground for intervention. I would then first ask what exactly happened and whether that is due to TOTO who does not properly check the passport or ID card. In that case, I'd like to hear what's going on here. I'd say the advice to that mother is to go straight to the Ksa and report this, because this shouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u336	Of course, I haven't checked whether that person is 17 or 18 years old, but my point is whether we are achieving the goal of the legislation in terms of channeling. That's my point, and the Minister doesn't go into that. I regret that and I invite him again to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u337	In the past, there were over a million Dutch people without any protection on illegal sites. We didn't see that at all. It doesn't have to be more than a million of me. I don't like to gamble, really. But if we can make sure that those million people in the future play a game on a legal site where there is attention to prevention, where we can check the ID and where we can fight money laundering, then that's worth a sweet thing to me. But then we have to be able to point it out to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u338	I would ask the Minister to really stop now and give his appreciation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u339	Oh, yeah, I got two more. The first is the amendment to item No. 25, on the increase in the budget of the Personal Data Authority. I am going to say something about the coverage, because I have already said something about the destination. If Parliament made this choice, it would be at the expense of PNR and, in my view, PNR is simply very much needed in the context of our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u340	So your appreciation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u341	...is "dissuade." Mr President, that also applies to Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 32. I would like to say a few words about both the destination and the coverage. I'll start with the cover. The money is taken away from, if I see correctly, the legal aid. I am looking in the direction of Mr Van Nispen, because that surprises me a bit. Wasn't he a big supporter of more money going to legal aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u342	On a point of order, Mr President. This government hasn't explained where there's money. We have asked questions about the 8 million for PNR, but we are hardly getting any explanation of what exactly that is meant for. That was budget flexibility, and we regard it as a cover. I think it is a mistake on the part of the government which has not been properly explained exactly what it is intended for. We are genuinely trying to find good cover. I had a discussion about that yesterday. That letter on social law also states that there is 28 million left. It seems to me that that is over and that it is not at the expense of the social attorneys' fees, because then I would never have chosen that cover. Don't rub things at me, because we're really doing our job. We're really trying to make responsible choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u343	Get the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u344	Then I am going to make it more precise, because it is true that 28 million is not necessary to carry out Van der Meer. But at the same time we have also had a discussion here about whether I should do something extra here and there to broaden things. I am particularly looking at this budget on that post. Two. I will now proceed with the destination and you want to use this, Mr Van Nispen, for a dotation towards a number of services that interpreters take into account. Then that's not for a year, because then it's structural. We may have some financial space next year, but not structural. Then we are really going to come below the level to make Van der Meer come true. That's where the pain is on the cover and that's why I think it's unwise. The destination. It belongs to my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, because that is where the whole system of renewal lies around the interpreters. A donation to the budgets of, for example, the police, the judiciary or the Public Prosecutor does not automatically mean that interpreters also receive more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u345	You don't agree on the cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u346	We also believe that there should be reasonable rates for interpreters, but this is not done by increasing the amount of money, but by giving it a chance of good negotiations between the providers and the interpreters themselves on the rates at which they want to do that work. That's what's happening right now. I would also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u347	I see Mrs Van der Werf from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u348	I think there's been a question on my part. That was about a conversation from you, Minister, with the Centre of Sexual Violence about a nationwide emergency. A motion for a resolution has been passed on that. At the same time, you have also received a letter stating that a study of the needs of victims would have been completed next year after the summer. But I think that is taking quite a long time and that is why I asked if we could take that forward a little bit. I did not think that the answer I saw was entirely satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u349	I can't put that investigation forward, because the WODC says we need time for that. We do not have such good experiences with the WODC. I mean, we have very good experiences with the WODC, but not with saying to them: we need to have it faster. Let's leave it at WODC. We always give them a research question and then say: we like to hear when you are ready and then we receive it. So we're not gonna press that. What I can do is, in the run-up to it, to engage in the conversation with the Centre on Sexual Violence, so that we can better see what's going on now. I'm more than willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u350	Your last interruption, Mrs. Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u351	Yeah, that's very nice, because I don't think it bites each other. That research on the needs of victims can run and at the same time I think you can see very well how you get that field with all kinds of different types and providers a little more under one umbrella. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-10.u352	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Minister for Legal Protection's contribution. Thank you very much for his answer. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:45 p.m. Then we start with a two-minute debate Composition and commission of investigation committee evacuations Afghanistan. Then we will continue this debate.
