ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the two-minute commercial radio debate: SEO report and explanatory statement. First of all, welcome to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. Three speakers have registered. Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union will have the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a member of parliament, a representative of the people, and I'm controlling the government and this minister. I trust he's doing his job well. At the same time, I hear from the sector how they run into a blockade; at least that's how they experience it. I think that both parties are better at talking in advance than at procedure afterwards. That is why, together with Mr Inge van Dijk of the CDA, I have a motion calling for this. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be an emergency extension of the radio licences, where commercial radio stations conform to the Van den Berg c.s. motion. and the Grinwis c.s. motion. a proportional fee for having to pay;]] [[Whereas the procedure for applying the method of calculation tested and approved results in the extension prices being seven to thirteen times higher than current prices, which is disproportionate and contrary to the objective of the proposed emergency extension;]] [[Whereas previous extensions in 2011 and 2017 have different uses of this method and are supported by experts and case-law;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the radio sector and on the basis of an independent legal analysis of the possibilities offered by the Telecommunications Act and State aid rules, to achieve proportionate and appropriate renewal prices in line with the Grinwis and Others motion for a resolution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-552]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning. Every week 13 million people listen to the radio in the Netherlands, of which 10.3 million people listen to commercial radio. In addition, in Hilversum, approximately 1,200 to 1,500 people are employed in the radio sector. In short, it is a relevant sector. Mr. Chairman. Other than that, I can be brief. The CDA is co-initiator and co-subsidiator of the motion that has just been read out. We had hoped that this motion would not be necessary, because the earlier mandate of the Van den Berg and others motion adopted. and the Grinwis c.s. motion. was clear: give radio stations time to financially recover from the corona crisis by extending the existing FM licences by three years and ask for proportionate and socially responsible compensation. The fact that these fees are now seven to thirteen times higher than current prices runs counter to the aim of the proposed emergency extension. That is why, together with the Christian Union, we are proposing an independent legal analysis to see whether proportionate renewal prices can be achieved. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Rajkowski of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a chamber, we have decided to extend the emergency for the radio sector, partly because of missed revenue, at least at the beginning of the corona period. We can now see that the radio sector has to deal with significantly higher amounts in the renewal of licences. That's what we're worried about. We don't know if there's still falling advertising revenue at the moment. Therefore, from this point on, I would like to ask the Minister to make a commitment to monitor the effects of the price increases on the radio sector and to inform the Chamber before the summer of 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you. I'll see if the Minister has the motion yet. Yes. You can proceed with the answer immediately? Then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The extension or auctioning of radio frequencies has a long history in this Chamber. I remember talking about it myself as a Member of Parliament. If I hear about it from Mr Kamp, who was also responsible for radio frequencies at the time, then he also has certain thoughts. Even now, we're talking. Mrs Van Dijk is right: it is a sector where many people work, where many people listen to and where a lot is also earned. That, of course, is why we talk about this so often. The aim of the auctioning system was, of course, once to create an objective distribution criterion in this complicated mishap: many listeners, many employees and large financial interests, which is still being applied. This has recently been applied to the distribution of the DAB frequencies. That has the great advantage of being able to determine very objectively who is most responsible for the frequency. The proceeds come in the general pot. We can pay teachers, cops and the AOW for that again. That's a neat system. The moment you step away from that, you end up in a very complicated negotiating situation. That's what we're in now, not for the first time. So question one is how wise it was to get off those auctions. Anyway, it has been decided and we are in that situation. Then there is nothing a government can do but ask an independent body what would be a reasonable price for renewal. There's an amount out of which those who have to pay it will say they think it's too much. There are also those who say: we would have liked to auction. That is why I am convinced that the call in Mr Grinwis's and Mrs van Dijk's motion will not provide a solution, because it calls for dialogue with the radio sector. The radio sector consists of the established parties: large groups with millions in turnover, generally also with millions in profits. They have been awarded it; I am in favour of entrepreneurship. They're very big. They're gonna hire lawyers, and they're gonna start those conversations. There are those who will say that they do not agree with the extension at all, but we should also invite them. Of course, we're going to invite them when we talk to the sector. They will say: we do not agree at all with the extension; you should have auctioned under the Telecom Act. That conversation will therefore be a re-affirmation of the existing situation. Makes the stain even bigger. There's a second downside. We must also carry out such a procedure to all parties in a proper manner. There's time to do that. We want the frequencies to be redistributed by 1 September next year and people can just listen to the radio. We can't postpone that until the last minute. That's indecent. That combination of the fact that such a conversation with parties with totally opposing interests is not going to produce anything. yes, bills for lawyers; that is the way it is going. and the fact that time is running out leads me to discourage the motion. I think, as Mrs Rajkowski asked, it is indeed good to keep the finger on the wrist. We will be happy to do so, but we will also look at whether this way of decision-making is really so sensible or whether we actually have a good law and that we can simply apply it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u8	The motion in part No. 552 is not recommended. I do not see any further reactions or need for additions to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u9	That brings us to the end of this two-minute debate. I'm suspending the meeting until 10:35. Then we begin the debate on the new aid package related to corona.
