ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to meet with Members: six questions and/or comments to each other, and six questions and/or comments to directors. That's quite a lot, because there are 18 of us, but it's also an important debate. I would ask you to be brief and concise. I say the same to the rulers. Then we are really going to start the debate. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago we were quite different here; although also at another location, but well. Then I talked about that the finish on the Bonkevaart was in sight, but we had to stay alert. Unfortunately, that finish is even further than we thought. We've fallen behind. And that sucks, just like everybody else. After the announcement, there was rightly criticism of the too airy communication: the "dancing with Janssen" of Minister De Jonge, and the singing about mouth caps Minister Grapperhaus. There is also irritation and anger about the lack of self-reflection and the speed with which it was relaxed. The VVD understands that criticism, and it is also good that apologies have been made. But here, too, the question to the cabinet to take us back into what went wrong. What was already known about the delta variant? And have we learned anything from the previous lessons, from which it became clear that behavior is difficult to predict? How was that taken? I would also like to see all those involved looking at their own roles, including the Chamber, the mayors, but also the discotheques and some young people. Because if we can relax that is great, of course, but if insufficient control or lack of responsibility leads people to enter without a good QR code, then we get unsafe situations. And that is why, unfortunately, we now have to take some serious steps back. The VVD, with its knowledge of today's relaxations, would have been more phased and adapted, even though we still believe that, if it can be justified, we should not unnecessarily maintain the measures. The VVD welcomes the fact that the measures are being taken as specifically as possible, i.e. aimed at activities where many young people come together, because that is where we see the infections in particular. But for the sectors concerned this is yet another immense thump that they did not see coming. The event sector is rightly disappointed, angry and frustrated. They've seen that the field labs have worked well, have been constructive, and now this. I would therefore like to hear from the cabinet whether and how the experience with the field labs has been taken into account in the measures. We believe that entrepreneurs should be adequately compensated and supported. It is good that the cabinet has just announced further adjustments to the support. However, the NOW still has a turnover loss ceiling of 80%, assuming that no companies would be closed. The TVL also has a ceiling. Can this at least be adapted for the event sector? Mr. Chairman. Does the cabinet have an idea of what the effect of the measures could be on the number of infections? When can we see the first effects? The event sector will not be able to start with a few days of preparation. Can a decision, of course, if the situation permits, possibly be taken earlier? Can we at any rate, in consultation with the sector, clarify as quickly as possible what is possible after 13 August, in relation to these preparations? The same applies as far as we are concerned to the introduction weeks of the students. Then there is something that a lot of Dutch people are right to worry about: what is the result of the holiday, which everyone is so anxious about? I understand that we should not align our policies or our measures on this, but certainly after this year, that is a moment for a break. That's important. What influence do the measures have on the colour code of our country? What consultations are there with the EU countries? As far as the VVD is concerned, the degree of vaccination and the number of hospitalisations is considered instead of the number of infections. We are also curious to see how far this debate is going in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u3	Why don't you finish your story first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u4	Two brief points, Mr President. Vaccination is the way out of this mess. What is being done to achieve the highest possible degree of preparedness for vaccination? Is there a need for a booster for the risk groups, as in Israel? Is there an opinion from the OMT and/or the Health Council on this? And finally, Mr President, let's put 17 million more to the test, even if it's spicy. Let us, above all, support the sectors affected, because these measures are very important. Of course, we ask everyone to stick to all the rules as best we can, so that we can do more in mid-August or preferably a little earlier. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u6	I don't have to press anything, do I? The microphone is a bit high, but apparently we are not such an inclusive company when it comes to microphones. Too bad leprechauns aren't included in this whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u7	You're good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you! Mrs De Vries again talks about the Bonkevaart. I told you last time that's a bit posh if you've never skated a meter yourself. But of course it's about the festival. I've been to many festivals of the VVD. That was fun, with bitterballs eating and drinking a beer, but the biggest wrong festival of the year is the VVD. I'm gonna help you out a little bit. The group immunity we're supposed to start with isn't working anymore. The corona app still doesn't work. The PCR tests still don't show any infections. The British version was misjudged by the RIVM. The lockdown isn't working. Curfew doesn't work. Hoods make more sick than they do anything right. The vaccination program got off to a bad start. Test capacity was purchased while it was not used. 5.1 billion in receipts is inexplicable. Recently, Access Tests failed, with QR codes that don't work. Ventilation is not included. Festivals and artists are getting their asses kicked. You are the representative of the largest party. When are you going to take responsibility? Isn't it time that the VVD group criticized these people, who are destroying the Netherlands completely?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u9	A lot of things in a row. Quite frankly, things have indeed gone wrong. Things have also gone wrong in the past, but I also think that we all realize that it is a erratic virus, which is sometimes difficult to predict. Sometimes you have to make decisions with insufficient information. Does it always go well? No, things are going wrong, too. That's what we've seen now. But I think that the VVD also takes responsibility for making those difficult decisions and explaining why something didn't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u10	It's obvious things are going wrong. But so many things in a row, and you take so little responsibility? We even have a outgoing cabinet, which has resigned because they have made other mistakes in other areas. Surely that requires a little rethinking, even with the VVD? I understand it's nice to be in the center of power. I'm not. I'm just a cryer in the desert, in the opposition, but there has to be a moment when it's enough for you too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u11	I also think that we in the House of Representatives should look at ourselves. I know that you are in any case in favour of releasing many more measures. I think that's irresponsible. I think we should just look carefully here at what is needed and how the virus develops. We need to be there for those entrepreneurs. I am therefore very pleased that the cabinet has yet again promised additional support for the sector, even though I know that it may be a tissue for them to bleed and that it has hurt terribly in that sector, but I think it is a good step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u12	Of course, the infections are going up, and I understand you're looking at that very anxiously. These are infections that are detected with a PCR test, but in the meantime the damage based on this meaningless PCR test is enormous. Now you are talking about compensation for the damage, but the damage will not be compensated at all. We have now spent 80 billion, which is a fraction of the damage that has been done to SMEs. So again, when are you going to take responsibility and look at the numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u13	When I look at the figures, we take responsibility. I think that your group does not, because I think that the damage would have been enormous if we had done what you have proposed by letting go of all the measures. The hospitals would have been flooded and people would have suffered from lung covid for a very long time. So I think that's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u14	Yes, the next interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yeah, because I'm being challenged here anyway. You say the hospitals would be flooded. The hospitals aren't flooded at all. Hospitals are empty. So if we were to send it and it would indeed be, then you are absolutely right, but you are not right, because there is no one in the hospitals. It's just a matter of the number of infections that are increasing. And those infections say nothing at all; that has been demonstrated for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u16	Finally, Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u17	In fact, the infections are increasing considerably. There is also a large group of people who have not been vaccinated and who have not yet had the opportunity to be fully vaccinated. I think we should look forward too, and we should be ahead of that, because I think the concern still has a huge amount of catching up to do. At the moment, a lot of people are still waiting for surgeries to be caught up. They have also experienced the misery of that. We have to take that into account, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u18	An interruption by Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u19	I had a question about the festivals and the events. Mrs De Vries spoke about this. They are furious because of the blunder of the cabinet all festivals and events can no longer go on. Mrs De Vries mentioned that there would be additional support. Of course, that is also good, but my question is whether the VVD also believes that this aid should be 100%, so that it should be a full compensation for all the damage suffered. Because huge costs have been incurred and the SP believes that these costs should also be fully reimbursed. I ask Mrs De Vries whether she agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u20	In my view, a good step has been taken by the cabinet by at least paying out 100% of the guarantee fund and looking for a good arrangement for the events that are outside. I have also indicated that it is important to look again at the NOW, since it only takes account of 80% turnover losses and the TVL, so that we can compensate for as much of these costs as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u21	Not as much as possible, but completely, I'd say. It is not the fault of this sector that it could have gone wrong in this disastrous way. If something like this happens, then you have to be reasonable, and then you have to say: from village party to Lowlands, we're going to compensate you for your expenses, because it's our fault as a cabinet that it's become such a mess. I want to make sure from Mrs De Vries of the VVD that this compensation is complete, that it is 100%, otherwise these people will simply suffer from the failure of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u22	I said that we want the sector to be compensated. You can designate the cabinet, but we have just as well agreed with the measures and the relaxations that have been proposed. So I also think we should look at ourselves. A guarantee for everyone and for every festival that it will be 100% is not going to work, because it is a generic measure, but I think that good steps have been taken. I'm asking the Cabinet to go one step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u23	I have listened to the story of my colleague in the VVD and what strikes me is that again, like the cabinet, I do not hear a word but not a word about perhaps the greatest cause of all infections, and that is the lack of ventilation and not recognizing the great problem of aerogenic infections between people through drops. Everyone in the world, from American RIVM to our own RIVM, says that as long as we don't handle that ventilation, you can figure out what you want, from 1.5 meters to I know what you're doing, but you won't solve the problems. We have even received a letter from, I believe, 20 professors who endorse that. We saw it last year: it all started with a superspreading event, with carnival in Brabant. Bad ventilation. We didn't quite know that at the time. And the misery began. We are now 500 days away, and your cabinet and your party have learned nothing from it. And what do we see now? Not a word is said at the press conferences of the cabinet about the aerogenic infections, and there are again superspreading events. Once again, people are now infected, fortunately not sick and not in hospital, but they are infected because nobody is talking about it and nobody is doing anything about it. My question to the VVD colleague is: why do you keep quiet about this every time? Do you agree with me that we now have to make sure that ventilation at festivals, in the catering industry, in people's homes and in schools is better regulated, because we can simply prevent more infections from taking place, so that the Netherlands can go on vacation with more favourable figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u24	Ventilation certainly plays a role. That is why there is also investment in ventilation in schools, to ensure that ventilation can be improved. I think that is an important point. But only due to ventilation... I don't think that's the solution. I think there's been a lot more. I would point out that there has been tampering with QR codes for access and that the checks have not been in order. We have also seen strong infection clusters on festivals outside. So just ventilation isn't the solution. As far as I am concerned, however, we must also pay attention to ventilation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u26	Whether it's about the catering industry or about the festivals that have taken place, if we had provided good ventilation then those superspreading events wouldn't have taken place. Of course I'm not suggesting that there were no infections. We have indeed now seen a festival called NOS that an outdoor festival with many infections. That was in Utrecht. I just walked back to my table to get a picture of that festival. You know the picture. Maybe for the cabinet, too. In the picture you see all those people who would be supposedly outside. There would have been thousands of infections there. But this is what I'm saying to the colleague of the VVD... is the real picture; this is what took place at that festival. Those are people partying all over the place, with a nebula in which all those aerosols are having a big party. People stand there on top of each other without ventilation and have naturally infected each other massively. This festival is, like, last year's carnival. I don't blame those people, because the government said it's okay, it's okay, you can go party and ventilation's not a problem. And we can all avoid that. We can prevent us from going straight to dark red. We can prevent us from getting contaminations again at other festivals, if they are to take place again, if we are finally going to get this ventilation right. I'm not just saying it. RIVM says it, the world RIVM organization says it, scientists say it, Maurice the Dog said it last year. Everyone, friend and enemy, calls it. And I can get so mad about it. Nothing's happening. So again the question to the VVD: are you prepared to put the cabinet on fire now in order to provide good ventilation in indoor spaces to prevent us from instantly getting deeper into the misery? I will also put that question to the cabinet in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u27	Again, I don't think we disagree that ventilation is important. I think the cabinet has also indicated this. But I really think we shouldn't say that this has been the only problem. And this event... well, then it's been in part indeed in a tent. But that is also why measures have been taken in relation to events. I don't like that. I think that's terrible for the sector. He's very disappointed. I understand that very well, because they had counted on something quite different. It is therefore a good thing that we now have support. For the future, let us at least ensure that these kinds of events can take place in a good way in the long term. And of course we also need to look at the ventilation at these kinds of events.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u28	That "look at it too"! I didn't say this was the only problem. I did not just say that, nor did I say that in my two previous interruptions. But it is the most important problem. The main cause of infections in indoor spaces is the lack of ventilation and the lack of recognition of the aerogenic infections. And you're not answering that at all. You're not saying anything about that. And at the very last minute, you say, "We also need to look at ventilation." My point is correct: we need to look at ventilation now. Of course, people are now being poked and vaccinated massively. Whatever you think of it, it pays. Half of the adult Dutch people have been pricked twice and 80% I believe once. But the problem now is not with the people who are being vaccinated slowly. The problem is now with ventilation. So I would like you, as the biggest party of this house, not to say "we're going to look at it too," but: we're all going to put pressure on the cabinet today to make sure the ventilation is in order, from the catering industry to the people's home. In the last press conference, the cabinet did not say one word about it. The main way of spreading the virus is in indoor spaces without ventilation. Not a word about that. Are you on my side not to talk about it as well, but to persuade the cabinet today to get on with it and to arrange the ventilation properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u29	I still think it's a part of me. An important part; I certainly agree with that. But I think, for example, that keeping distance is also an important part and that enforcement on testing for access is important. All these elements will have to be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u30	There is an interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u31	In some places you can't keep your distance, for example in a classroom, where a lot of children sit in a often small space. Mrs De Vries was right to say that the cabinet has earmarked 360 million for this. Most of that amount will not be released this year, but only in 2022 and 2023. We have drawn up a scheme to regulate ventilation in schools properly, but most of the money is not released this year, while there is a need for it in schools. I would like to ask Mrs De Vries: what does she think of that, with the knowledge of today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u32	If there is indeed a need to use these funds now and to implement them, then of course you should also look at them. I would like to ask the cabinet if there is any possibility that we could put these funds forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u33	I have a little difficulty with this answer, because this is exactly what we discussed last week in a debate. On this point, an amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which says: bring that money forward via the cash drawer. Let us not spend it in 2022 and 2023, but let us spend it this year, because schools need it. After the summer holidays there are many children in a small, often poorly ventilated room in the schools. I find it rather difficult for Mrs De Vries of the VVD to say that we can ask the cabinet. We had that chance last week. A number of parties, including the VVD, voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u34	I should like to read that amendment, but I would also like to have a reaction from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u35	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u36	We are now seeing a state of medical apartheid being created in more and more places in Europe. In Greece, from the day after tomorrow, cafes and restaurants are only accessible to vaccinees. In France, access to all public places is now only accessible to people with QR code. In the Netherlands we can also see that this slippery path is being walked. That is why I tabled a motion last week asking the Chamber to rule against it. It states that discrimination based on medical personal characteristics is not permitted. Why did the VVD vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u37	Because I believe that the party for which you are in the Lower House does not want any measures at all. I want to make as much as possible in a responsible way. I think testing for access is still a good option to give more space and more space. In that case, the system must be in place, enforcement must be good and there must be no fraud and fraud with the QR codes. That's not what you're into. I'm in favour of it. I think your motion called for an end to this. That's not what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u38	I find it remarkable that Mrs De Vries says that she is voting against a motion asking the Chamber to speak out against discrimination based on medical personal characteristics, because the Forum for Democracy is a party that wants to put an end to all measures. Yes, we want to put an end to all the measures, but the motion did not call for an end to all the measures, but to put an end to the measures that create a state of medical apartheid and discriminate against people, Dutch citizens, people who are very healthy. Why are you in favour of discrimination based on medical personal characteristics?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u39	No one is in favour of discrimination, of course. But the tone in the debate that has been discussed and what has led to the motion is that you want to put an end to testing for access. I am not in favour of that. You may say "that's not in the motion," but it was your intention. We think it is important that we offer these opportunities to be able to do so sooner and more, including for our companies and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u40	I'll put a lock on it. I note that Mrs De Vries makes up all sorts of things in the motion that were not in it and that I did not mention in the debate either. The motion simply called for us to speak out against discrimination based on medical personal characteristics. I find it extremely worrying that the VVD votes against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u41	It's a repeat of moves. I stick to my previous answer: no one is in favour of discrimination. I think your party's intention was a completely different one. You can say it was not in the motion, but it was your intention. We're not gonna fall for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u42	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u43	Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago we were still on our way: skylight open, the volume button at maximum and navigation led us on the right route. But after this path wasn't fully followed, the material failed and the driver didn't react in time, we flew out of the corner. And so we had to get full on the brake to slide over the asphalt with squeaking and cracking tires. I, too, watched the press conference on Friday. It's a good thing those three days later were followed by excuses. There's been a serious miscalculation. The profits made in months have evaporated after two weekends. I asked myself the question: shouldn't the Chamber have been heard more fiercely? But when I asked the minister at the last cabinet about the Indian variant in England, the ventilation in discotheques, and quit working at home, the reaction was always that it was justified. The minister mentioned our pricking strategy that would be better. He was talking about the Indian community in England that we don't have. In short, in England things are not going well, but we are not England. And so we could count on it to be good. We need to get back to that now. That's an incredible shame. Mr. Chairman. The numbers are huge. We now beat much larger Germany by a factor of 10. Measures are needed to repair these rising contamination rates. Containments that come back hard after all. I hope that they will be sufficient so that the care, including the general practitioners, does not yet have a heavy summer and we do not think in two weeks 'we should have'. The "R" number of the delta variant has been above 1 since June 17th. I ask for clarification from the cabinet on a number of points: the homework advice, the testing of all travellers upon entry and the mouth caps in indoor areas. Those first two points are points that were frequently included in the OMT opinion. We're taking a step back now, but I'm also gonna keep looking at what we can do. Tickets can work. Look at countries like Germany and Denmark. It's the execution where it went wrong. It's the irresponsible "dancing with Janssen." It was the ICT failures with the wrong results and it was the lack of enforcement, because the tickets have been tampered with. How many fines have actually been paid for that? I'd like to hear the PM's exact numbers. Young people who did their test properly and wanted to walk safely are now far too often at home with corona or in quarantine. Entrepreneurs who follow the rules are now looking at a closed door again. But we had the field labs, didn't we? Is there not enough evidence of this? There were 29 with 130,000 visitors and a total of only 104 infections. They are therefore created in a controlled setting with up to 24 hours in advance testing, prior registration and very clearly sufficient ventilation. I have again heard nothing about ventilation from the Minister and the Prime Minister in the press conference, despite the fact that the importance of fresh air is stressed in the last four OMT opinions. If staying in the outdoors is to a large extent safer than within............................................................................................................................................................ Can we not see what it takes to organise it after 13 August? Finally. Many Dutch people long to go home or abroad. With voluntary vaccination, vaccinate, vaccinate, hopefully we'll make it. I am proud that the Netherlands is at the forefront of the willingness to take that shot, that the vaccination obligation is not at issue, that an ever smaller minority is in doubt and that really only a very small group says: njet. Fake news is losing. With us on August 20 every adult had the chance of complete vaccination. I ask the Minister how realistic it is that we can speed this up. Are we reaching out to the people who haven't taken that chance? If we come to red tomorrow, what kind of agreements do we have with other countries? I am thinking of the vacations of the nurses, the enforcers and the people of the supermarket, i.e. anyone who has worked hard in this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u44	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u45	Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that the cabinet has deliberately taken too many risks and has simply ignored the signals that Mr Paternotte referred to from the UK and from experts? Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u46	I don't think it's deliberate. But the fact that too many risks have been taken seems quite obvious to me, yes. That is why we said last week, when we saw after the second weekend that the weather had gone wrong, that we really wanted an urgent opinion from the OMT. In fact, the entire House of Representatives insisted on that and that's why it got there. I am glad that there was at least that advice, so that the measures were put into effect before last weekend. That is a really important lesson in this virus: the sooner you adjust, the less you need to adjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u47	But I also heard Mr Paternotte say: in fact, we have already wondered in the previous debate whether we were moving too fast. I also heard his blessing: our warnings have actually been ignored and only after a lot of pushing will there be change. So, according to Mr Paternotte, what guarantees do we have that the cabinet will continue to adjust, should that be necessary? How does he intend to give his own hands and feet to that? Otherwise, we will leave this debate, we will have spoken harshly and harshly and we will all go our separate ways tomorrow. Then I don't know where the path is going to end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u48	Last week, the Chamber did so by calling for that urgent opinion. I think we can also look at what the OMT himself said on 2 July. Then the OMT noted: you now see in so many countries that the number of infections can develop quite quickly.Now the Netherlands is leading Europe.That we have to go back to a weekly cycle, in which the OMT advises weekly on the situation, based on the latest figures, and says what is needed, to prevent it from getting out of hand and you have to intervene more heavily later. I would therefore like to ask the cabinet to ensure that this week, too, the OMT will be reunited. The OMT advised himself to go to that weekly cycle. Let us ensure that we do not go another week before the OMT gets back together and has an opinion. If it is then necessary to do more to control the virus, then it can also happen in time. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the OMT opinion must be timely. I would also like to ask the cabinet the following, looking at last week. On Tuesday there was a feeling that it didn't go well, with numbers that really got up. We were already over 2,000 by then. In the end, you'll be four days later. Then it was indicated that it had been a very busy week, which I understand very well. But how exactly is it that it is so difficult to adjust quickly and that there is also a good lead time in it? I think it would be a good idea to go through that together later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u49	Well, a lot of words, but I actually hear Mr Paternotte say: I just want tighter and stricter controls and checks on a weekly basis. In fact, this is a form of the cabinet's curate establishment. May I summarize his words like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u50	I say that the OMT should take a weekly look at the figures and advise weekly, so that it can be adjusted on time. We've had that model before. But at some point it was said that that is no longer necessary, because it is going so well and because the contamination rates are so low. That is not the luxurious situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u51	That seems to me to be a fair observation. My final question: does Mr Paternotte agree with me that we should leave behind the time when we only sent out hospital figures? Does he agree with me that it should now also be about what the infections do, about what that means for society, for lung covid and for the disease burden, and about how to contain this better, instead of following the facts every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u52	My colleague Paulusma has a lung covid and she has made a proposal on how we can better help lung covid patients. I think it is very good that we now acknowledge that this is intense. It can be very profound in people's lives. There are plenty of stories of people who still can't live their lives in the same way a year later, and that should also be considered. I asked the Minister, why aren't we England? Then there was an answer. In fact, the Minister's reply was similar to that given to me by Mr Van Dissel. I think we'd better assume we're gonna see the same thing as in England. And that's where you can see that the hospital rates are rising, that they're delaying normal surgeries again, that cancer and heart patients will have to wait longer for surgery and that will cause health damage. That's what we need to avoid together. Also sending on hospital records is now enough reason to say that we want to get the virus back under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u53	That's not an answer to my question. If we keep sending them to hospital admissions alone, we'll be following the facts all the time. Hospital records always show up two or three weeks after the infections. So I ask my question again: does Mr Paternotte agree with me, with the knowledge of today, that we need new steering models and that we should also look at contamination rates and what they mean, rather than just hospitalisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u54	I also hear Mrs Kuik refer to the questions she had at the technical briefing yesterday. I share very much that it is very difficult. From a minimum level of contamination we went to a record in thirteen days and then we listen to figures that are based to a very large extent on information from three weeks ago. You want a reasoned assessment of what the situation is now in the Netherlands. How many people are contagious? What's the R number? What can you expect? 'Cause, yeah, if you don't do anything until the hospital admissions are a problem, you're always late. But also in the past there have been interventions at certain times at the time when that was threatening to happen. Fortunately, the situation has never occurred in the Netherlands that intensive care really couldn't handle it anymore. You need those projections, and they need to be up-to-date. Especially with an even more contagious variant you need current figures to be able to send. So I agreed with your question about making sure that we do not look at what the R number was three weeks ago and how much percent was then a particular variant. You want to know what the situation is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u55	An interruption by Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u56	Thank you to Mrs Kuik, who asked the questions I also wanted to ask, but which Mr Paternotte was unable to give a very concrete answer to. I would therefore like to ask Mr Paternotte two 'yes or no' questions. The first is whether D66 is prepared to reject and condemn the policies that have been used so far in clear terms, and simply to say that the policies we have followed so far have been ic-capacity-driven, bad policies, and that it has cost us a lot of sick and dead people. That's a yes or no question. The next question is also a 'yes or no' question; I will put it to you in one go. Can we count on D66 to force this cabinet to change this policy, as Mrs Kuik suggested? These are two specific questions to which I believe two very brief answers can also follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u57	No and yes. I'm saying that because of course it's not entirely true either. It's never been the case that it was just the intensive care capacity. It was about the hospital tax and the overload of the care and to keep sight of the virus. There were multiple targets. But the GGD in Twente doesn't even keep track of how many people in Aspen Valley have been infected. Then I'm thinking, do we still have eyes on that? And because of too many malfunctions, we don't know if the infection rates of the last few days are telling the whole story. Then I think: do we have enough of that? Those are therefore sufficient reasons to say that something is really going on now. I just mentioned long covid. I am pleased that the cabinet recognises this and that it looks at health damage in a broad way. In my view, this is one of the reasons why measures have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u58	Because a little more words have been used than just yes and no, I just want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u59	No, and yes, it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u60	No and yes, excuse me. Mr Paternotte is not prepared to condemn this cabinet policy. Of course, the reasons for this can be guessed. However, if I have understood him correctly, I am asking for confirmation only, and I have just heard that we can count on the support of D66 if there might be a motion that would ask this cabinet to adjust its policy and policies that are directed at ic capacity and on all the other reasons that Mr Paternotte has just mentioned, to move on to policies that control and limit contamination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u61	I'm gonna go check on the motion later. I'll watch out for the next one. There are also people who will be hearing from the right in a moment who say: as long as the hospitals are not full, what exactly is going on and why are we taking measures at all? Then I think: let's look forward a little bit, for example, to what is happening in England, where the National Health Service is now in the process of delaying operations and scaling up the regular care. We shouldn't want that anymore. You don't have to change any of the policy's objectives to say that we shouldn't want that anymore, and that's why we need to do something now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u62	The last time, Mr. President, because the interruptions are scarce. I would like to ask Mr Paternotte whether it is not a good idea to look at countries where things are better. We are now looking at countries where things are worse. Normally you would learn lessons from that, but unfortunately I do not see that happening in this cabinet. When we look at countries where things are getting better, we see that these are mainly countries that are making very clear efforts to contain this virus and to keep the number of infections down. This is not a question, but an objection to what Mr Paternotte just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u63	Mind if I respond, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u64	You may respond to it. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u65	I think it is quite right to look abroad, for example at testing for access. Of course that went wrong in the catering industry, but I look jealously at Germany, where they say: you can dance, but in the outdoors and with an access test, while maintaining the order. In Germany, you can see that they have 20 times less infections than we do. That is the implementation with which it could have been safe; let us learn from that. Because that suggests to me that under the right conditions it is possible to organize festivals now. I think a lot of people would love it if we could make that possible with each other in August. So at that point you can indeed learn a lot from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u66	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB and then Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u67	Here I slowly but surely taste that we want to change the goal, so no longer send on hospital admissions, but on the number of infections or infections. the number of positive testeds. How far is D66 willing to go in there? Let's at least be honest and clear that covid just doesn't disappear. It'll just always be part of our society. How far should we go that a society is completely locked up, that there is billions of economic damage and that a lot of people are depressed, for a virus that will always mutate and very few people, if you look at all 17 million Dutch people, actually become ill? I'm not playing down the last one, by the way. How far should we go according to D66? Where does it stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u68	My main objective is to vaccinate, vaccinate, vaccinate. I don't have the numbers completely one-on-one, but I thought 86% of last week's infections involved people who hadn't been vaccinated. For most of the rest, people would only have had one shot. So anyone who's had two shots is very well protected from this virus and completely from the chance that you're still in hospital. In two months, we've given everyone from 12 years of age the chance to be vaccinated. Then we can really achieve a very good level of protection in the Netherlands. If everyone uses that, the virus is definitely gone, because then it can't go around anymore. I think we should work together on that as soon as possible. Indeed, there will certainly come a time when you have to treat this virus like a lot of other infectious diseases. But when the risk is really that the care is overloaded and that you have to postpone surgery, you make other patients, whether they are cancer patients or heart patients, the victim of the fact that we have lifted measures too early and that enforcement has gone wrong. I don't think that's wise. Then I would prefer to say that we should be more prepared in August and have taken the right measures in terms of maintenance and ventilation to ensure that these events can be opened up safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u69	That's obvious. But that's not an answer to my question. My question is: if we want to change the target to look at the number of infections or positive tests, where does that stop? Because that gives a very long stretch to lock up society, once again, with a lot of economic damage and, more importantly, the reduction of people's fundamental rights to move freely. How far can that go in D66's head?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u70	I really think that's a false contradiction. The virus is now spreading rapidly among people who have not yet been vaccinated or who have not yet been fully vaccinated. In other words: among people in whom it could be prevented if they had already had the shots they are going to get this summer. In the meantime, I see that we are a factor ten above Germany. This spring I, and I'm sure you too, received a lot of emails from people from the region at the German border who said: I need a test to get across the border, while my father lives on one side and my mother lives on the other, while I have to study there, while I have to go there for work. That's what got people in the way. If the Netherlands now goes dark red in the summer and we have the hardest rise in Europe, you can see the same happening for all those nurses, teachers and also the officials of the Ministry, who have worked hard and who also want to go on holiday. If you're so out of line in Europe, you're doing something wrong. It is a false contradiction to pretend it would forever be the line of policy to count the number of infections. No, you need to get it under control. We should continue to vaccinate. At the moment, once again, there is a risk of overloading the health care system, which is really not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u72	As far as I'm concerned, you're kind of spinning around the hot stuff. Look, hospital admissions are just a really good indicator. Although, I still do not know who has primary covid and therefore has ended up in the hospital and which people come with another condition, may be tested and found infected with covid and then included in it. But anyway, that's a good measure, because then you can see if the pressure on the care rises. If you do it to see if the number of positive tests and the number of infections is increasing, that doesn't mean anything about the extent to which people get sick. You can see that from the hospitalizations, provided you're sure they're there primarily because of covid. I ask my question for the third time and hope that three times is the charm: how far is D66 prepared to go to stretch the limit of closing society, causing economic damage and reducing human fundamental rights, for example, the right to move freely?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u73	I just mentioned some things... You call the economy. It would be very damaging for the economy if we were to deviate very much from the rest of Europe if we were to be totally out of line. I just see the RIVM's prognosis that there can be overload of care. Look at England. It is perhaps wise to see what is happening there, because that can happen here as it is happening now. There they are again with delay of ordinary care. Then the question to Mrs Van der Plas is: should we wait until that happens, so until the hospitals are flooded, or should we use the forecasts that are there to adjust in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u74	No, we don't have to wait until the hospitals are flooded. You can see from the numbers if it's really going to go up. You can also see those data, in my opinion, just what age group it is happening at. And also: are they people who have been vaccinated or people who have not been vaccinated? You can keep up with all that. I do find it special to say, on the basis of a prognosis of a virus that makes very few people sick over the delta variant, that very little is known already: well, we do feel that we should focus on positive tests or infections. Because the consequences are very great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u75	I'm saying just look at what's happening in England in terms of hospital capacity and wonder if you want to. You can answer that and I can answer that. Then I think: let's adjust and let's not do so by imposing a lockdown on the whole country, but let's do so with as few measures as possible, which we can lift as soon as possible, in order to regain control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u76	Thank you. Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u77	It's kind of bizarre that after a year and a half of corona debates we still don't know what the most successful strategy is to contain the virus. I am really surprised that this discussion is now being held again. In October last year we adopted a motion, the Marijnissen/Klaver/Asscher motion, to send to reduce the infections and stop sending them to hospital admissions. That was because the cabinet fell asleep last summer and only woke up when the number of infections was so high that the hospitals would automatically flood. The whole project testing for access fits in with the strategy that controls hospitalisations and not limiting infections. Mr Paternotte's party, D66, has taken the lead by saying: let's test more for access; help test evidence, so we can quickly relax again. It just didn't work out. I believe that we should acknowledge this here today and Mr Paternotte should also acknowledge it. I would like to ask him: is he prepared to go back to the motion he supported at the time, in October last year, to send for infections rather than hospitalizations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u78	A lot of good motions have been tabled. Mr Hijink says that testing for access has failed. Tell them that in Germany or Denmark. In Denmark, I think they've been working on it since April. There it is a great success, because it is well maintained and the conditions have been carefully looked at. Look at the field labs. It also worked well there, but it was of course true that there were scientists who, whether it was inside or outside, went ahead to look at questions like "how is the direction organized?', "is the access sufficiently organized, so that you can always check if anyone has that ticket?" And "is the ventilation in order, which keeps changing the air?" And what did we see? 130,000 visitors and very few infections. So it's possible. We see this in Germany and Denmark. We saw that at the field labs. But then the execution must be good. Then enforcement must be good. Then we obviously shouldn't make mistakes, such as letting tests be valid for 40 hours or sending people in immediately with that vaccination after one shot, while you know you need more time. It's the execution. If you say that testing for access doesn't work, I'd say look across the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u79	I'd say let's clean up our own shit before we go abroad. We have a very big problem with a lot of infections. Testing for access has been the main cause of this. It is difficult for Mr Paternotte to deny that, isn't it? The GGD has been put out of play when testing for access. Commercial test streets and test companies have been deployed to organise this. There are undoubtedly good among them, but there are also cowboys in between.We all know that it is only possible to make a profit and not to provide careful tests. It's poorly organized in the base. Mr Paternotte should admit that. I want to get back to my first question. Does he still think that the motion supported D66 in October last year was something that should be directed at limiting infections rather than hospitalizations and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u80	Let's just agree that in principle I support all the motions that D66 has ever supported and that I make it known differently, so that we know that that is not the case anymore. As far as testing for access is concerned, you mention the GDD. I know the SP wanted the G.D.D. to do those tests, but the G.D.D. didn't want them to. The GGD indicated: please let us do that core task, namely that all people who have complaints can be tested. Now, if I'm looking at the contagion rates, I'm thinking, if we had done what the SP wanted and had the GGD do the tests for access, we would have had an even bigger problem with the test streets. So it's good to realize what the practice is like. But you're absolutely right that it went wrong when testing for access. I think that's due to an addition. I believe that enforcement is a major failure. That is why I asked the Prime Minister: there has been a great deal of fraud; how many fines have actually been paid for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u81	This is crazy. This is crazy. So Mr. Paternotte is all about it now, isn't he? He says: luckily we would have tested for access, otherwise the GGDs would have had a very big problem right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u82	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u83	No, because we have had tests for access, which have completely failed and resulted in thousands, tens of thousands of infections a day, we now have this misery. If the GGD had been directly involved, it would have served a public task. It would have served the public task of protecting health, but that task did not serve it. It served a commercial purpose. It served a purpose of being able to do as much as possible as quickly as possible, whereas it was actually not justified. I think we should acknowledge and admit that here today, before we put the ball at the G.D.D. If only the G.D.D. had more to say. Then we could have kept a much better grip on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u84	We still have tests for access for theatres, cinemas and lots of places that people really like to go there and where it can be safer, because they do that tested. In addition, the conditions have now been adjusted so that you have to do that test up to 24 hours in advance. I think that's good, too. I didn't say the SP caused this. All I said was that the SP advocated getting the GGD to run the tests for access and that the GGD itself didn't want that. I think that could have led to overloading of the GGD's test capacity. We really shouldn't have wanted that with each other. That doesn't change the fact that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u85	Mr President, for the sake of correction: I did not say... he is mistaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u86	Wait a minute. First, Mr Paternotte, and then I'll give you a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u87	However, the SP voted against the whole test for access. But you yourself made a proposal... At least you were on leave at the time, so Mr Kwint himself proposed that the GGD do those tests for testing for access. I don't think we can say now that that would have been a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u88	For the sake of correction, I did not say that Mr Paternotte blames us for causing it. I didn't say that. I said that testing for access and the way it was carried out caused misery. That's just a correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u89	Then Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u90	I have just heard Mr Paternotte say lyrically that more and more young people are now being vaccinated. He drew the conclusion that fake news has lost, but he ignores the fact that the majority of young people have been injected purely because they would get their freedom back. They could dance with Janssen and they'd meet a summer of love, but they've been lied to. So it's more like fake news won it here. But also Mr Paternotte always blames himself for perhaps the biggest form of fake news in the whole story by constantly talking about "contaminations," where he means "positive tests." I therefore have a simple question: can Mr Paternotte explain to me the difference between an infection and a positive test?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u91	Infection is when someone gets infected with the virus. So it's transferred from one person to another and you have the corona virus. There is a positive test if that person also does a test and if that test gives a positive test result, which shows that that person was infected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u92	It is worrying that after one and a half years of corona crisis, Mr Paternotte does not yet have the slightest sense of the distinction between the two. Let me explain briefly. A positive test means that a small piece of genetic material from the virus is found in the throat. An infection means that there are also complaints. This was confirmed by his great hero, Mr Van Dissel, in the technical briefing last week. Now we see that most of those positive tests come from the streets of access testing, where people without complaints are tested, while the number of tests at the GGD locations has increased to a much lesser extent. Does Mr Paternotte therefore recognise that the majority of those who are now tested positively have no complaints and are not sick and that it is therefore factually incorrect and very misleading to talk about 'contaminations' here? And will Mr Paternotte also take care to stop this fake news and just tell people the honest story?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u93	What Mr Van Meijeren is saying here is total nonsense, bullshit, bullshit, on a few points. First of all, Mr Van Dissel showed this last week. There were some 630 positive tests when testing for access. So that explained only a very small part of the increase. He attributed about 10% of the increase in the total number of positive tests to this. And that there is only infection if you have complaints: no, there is also something like asymptomatic contamination. That means someone's infected but has no complaints. You can still do that, and then you can still transfer the virus. I think that's at least one of the reasons people hand it over, because if they have complaints, of course they have a good reason to stay home. If you don't notice, you often don't realize you have the virus. So there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u94	Mr Van Meijeren. Your last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u95	The lie that also people who are asymptomaticly infected can transmit the virus has long and wide been degraded. But that does not change the fact that, where Mr Paternotte is constantly talking about contamination, it is purely and simply about the positive tests. The fact is that not everyone who is tested positively is actually infected. Then such a virus must first enter your body, which very often just doesn't happen. So in any case, when Mr Paternotte constantly talks about "contaminations" in the positive tests, that is factually incorrect and very misleading. I'm asking him to stop this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u96	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u97	All the institutes that are investigating this, whether you are talking about the World Health Organisation, the ECDC or the European RIVM, the CDC or the American RIVM or our own RIVM, find that asymptomatic contamination can indeed occur. What Mr Van Meijeren just said goes against all the authoritative science in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u98	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with some facts. The number of people with corona in the hospitals dropped again yesterday. The ICUs now have 75 people with corona. A week ago, that was 103. Indeed, the number of infections has increased considerably since then, but that does not lead to a new crisis. Moreover, the infected people are mainly 18- to 24-ers or, if you like, 18- to 30-year-olds, the entertainment audience. They don't usually get sick. In addition, almost 80% of all adults in the Netherlands received one shot and almost half of all adults were fully vaccinated. Mr. Chairman. As Professor Kroes, professor of virology and head of the department of medical microbiology at the Leiden University Medical Center, this morning in the NRC states: "There is too much panic. The panic about the delta variant of the coronavirus is unjustified." The professor's right. 98% of our 70-plussers now have antibodies in the blood and therefore no longer enter the hospital. In addition, every risk grouper has now had a shot. Even children are now being called on to be pricked because immigrants in the difficult neighbourhoods are still failing massively in voluntary vaccination. Mr. Chairman. We need to be consistent and we need to be consistent. The benchmark for the measures was the number of hospital and ic intakes, the pressure on care and the protection of the vulnerable. There is no reason at all, but there is no reason to depart from that now. This is without prejudice to the government's blundering and blundering, with drunken talk about "dancing with Janssen," but above all I said it in the event of interruption, by systematically ignoring that transmission through drops for 500 days: breathing each other's breath into inner spaces. It's almost criminal, this very important, if not most important, form of infection to ignore for so long. By looking the other way for a year and a half and pretending these infections with aerosols do not exist, there have now been superspreading events again, like in that Enschedese discotheque Aspen Valley, where 200 out of 600 visitors were infected or the Rotterdam student association gala, where 78 out of 250 visitors were infected. Dozens of dozens! Superspreading events in two weeks, with all the consequences. Of course, the cabinet should have put proper ventilation in order a long time ago. The fact that this has not yet been done is highly reprehensible. They have even done the opposite and legislation has made this ventilation requirement to the catering industry five times more flexible rather than five times more stringent. It can't be described with a pen. In the letter to the Chamber and to Prime Minister Rutte, he will now also have received him, and twenty scientists, led by Professor Bluyssen, are quite rightly in favour of finally taking that transmission seriously through aerosols and a good ventilation of indoor spaces. Finally do so, I say to the cabinet, because now the Netherlands is about to turn red and many of our families' holidays are at risk because of the failure of the cabinet. Then I ask the cabinet, what are you still doing here? Go to Brussels, where that ridiculous colour system comes from. What are they getting into? And demand from Brussels that those green, orange and red boxes, those Brussels colour terror that makes our holidays fall into the water, be adapted. Make sure that the Netherlands can go on holiday and these crazy colors are no longer determined on the basis of infections, but on the basis of hospitalizations. A motion on this matter was passed by this Chamber last week. I ask and I demand that it be carried out. The Netherlands will never forgive you if they see a well-deserved vacation through all your clumsy and your mischief disappear into the trash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u100	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The number of corona infections per day has increased from 572 to 21 June in a short time to more than 10,000 last Saturday. And although an increase was expected on 26 June on the release of the measures, this exceeds expectations. That there is intervention, understands and supports the CDA, but we also have a few questions. Mr President, I would like to say that the cabinet has apologized, but the OMT has not expected this increase and we have also been too optimistic as the House of Representatives. We are collectively responsible for this. Mr. Chairman. The OMT opinion says: "The OMT is also concerned about the festivals that will be on the agenda for the next summer. At present, they are not the cause of the increase, but here, the Test for Access will have to be carried out accurately and fully in order to prevent large-scale spread." In view of the positive experiences of the field labs that have also been mentioned earlier, the CDA's question is: can certain events possibly continue as a new field lab experiment? Because if you're 16 years old, a year really takes longer than if you're 61 years old. And if the developments in infections were not affected by the current interventions, could the measures be revised rather than 14 August? Because the Minister is right to say that vaccination is the best way to protect ourselves. And, Mr. Chairman, I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u102	I was just waiting for a natural break, but that's now. Mrs. Kuik, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u103	Yes. Mrs Van den Berg is already taking an advance on the cabinet, namely: we are collectively responsible. Isn't that too easy, I'd like to ask Mrs Van den Berg. Is it not true that, in a previous debate, we repeatedly asked: is the cabinet not moving too fast? Is it not true that some of the parties here in this House have also explicitly voted against a number of measures? And isn't it also true that during the technical briefing we said: well, we are already dealing with the delta variant; doesn't the cabinet ignore that too easily? And is it not also true that the cabinet itself has said: we are taking a calculated risk? Is it not too easy, after everything that is happening now, where we stand now, with all the young people and all the entrepreneurs, to say to society as a whole: we have failed collectively? Isn't that a tissue for bleeding, or some sort of apology for the stage, rather than really learning how to do this differently in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u104	I think that the cabinet has rightly indicated that the whole organisation, especially that of nightlife testing, has just not gone well. So it is right that they made a comment about that as well. But also the doctor Andreas Voss said: we as OMT would not have expected this excessive increase either. And yes, we have often asked care questions as a Chamber, of "how is this going?" And "how's that going?', But at the end of the day, we too, and society as a whole, have had a huge need for more relaxation. I supported the cabinet in that a few weeks ago. So I think we should take a look at ourselves. I think earlier colleagues have just named that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u105	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u106	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But you know what I'm sorry about? If you immediately take a flight forward, and you say "excuses" and "we haven't seen the collective," then you're actually blind to all the signals that were already there. The delta variant already played in the United Kingdom. Experts here in the Netherlands already pointed out to us, from Mulder to others: things are not going well, the infections are getting worse. We have asked for this collectively, including in the Chamber, with different parties: why so quickly, why not more focused, why not more cautious? The cabinet just ignored all those signals. And my concern is that if you say "yes, we have collectively already said sorry," you are not prepared to really learn, to fundamentally take other steps to do it differently in the future. So what guarantees can I now expect from the CDA that they have actually learned something and that we open our eyes and continue on another path? Or does it continue to muddle, and in a few months we'll be back here with "yes, we should have seen it better"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u107	Well, I just think this is a really different point, which we can learn from things that didn't go well. We have now clearly seen that you really need to organise and maintain those access controls in nightlife in a different way. On behalf of the CDA, since last June I have also called attention to ventilation. I also had at the end of my questions 'I still have no answer to my questions of 25 May', because we think that is an important element at least. And we've been talking about what we can really do with these sewer water measurements for a long time as CDA, so we don't wait every time for the hospital to fill up, but we just have a much better and proactive indication, like: look, we see that it's going up there, so we might have to take extra measures locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u108	Thank you. Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u109	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week I was really happy, because the CDA, a coalition party, although from the corona church, then voted in favour of a motion by Mr Kuzu of the company DENK and myself not to steer on the number of positive PCR tests, but to steer on the bed occupancy. And I thought, well, the CDA has woken up; the CDA understands that that PCR test is actually a fatal test, because with a very low prevalence and a decent margin of error you really get a huge number of error positives. So with that motion of ours in mind, how is it that your party, the CDA, can agree to change and steer the number of positive PCR tests that actually doesn't say anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u110	Thank you. It is the group of DENK, by the way, and not the company DENK. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u111	I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u112	Maybe my memory is failing me, but I think this motion was about us being able to move in Europe so that we do not look at the number of infections, but much more at the rate of vaccination and hospitalisations. Minister De Jonge has been working for weeks to convince colleagues to take other indicators for the assessment of countries. That's what the motion was about. That is what we have supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u113	Your memory does not fail at all, but what applies to Europe and what makes sense to Europe makes sense to ourselves. In addition, you have always argued in favour of taking the vaccinations with you. It used to be just a triangle, of course. You first got some infections, which weren't infections, but well, if you believe that, they're infections. This translates into a number of recordings and that translates into a very small percentage that ends up on the ic. But if you go into the narrative of the vaccinations, those positive PCR tests will no longer translate into hospitalizations. We can see that, too. We're even seeing a drop. And it doesn't translate into ic-recordings at all. So once again, with that in mind, it's a pity that this is my last interruption. How is it possible that the CDA, with all this knowledge, will still be involved in the narrative of "o, the infections are running up, so we have to do something and lock the whole country again"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u114	We have seen that in specific situations, especially in nightlife, in disco's and in catering nightlife, it has gone explosively wrong. So that's what we need to focus on right now to bring that back. This is what the government's measures are aimed at. Just because we say that it may be possible in other situations, I have just asked to what extent it is possible to do a few more experiments with certain events in the near future, with which we had very positive experiences with the field labs. Then those events can go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u115	Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks. Mr. Van Haga, you can make a new contribution later. There will also be a second term. Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u116	Of course there is no point in saying sorry if it is not learned from it. I hear Mrs Van den Berg say that the cabinet has said sorry after all and that we can all go on together. But in the past period several proposals have been made, including from the left-wing opposition. Mrs. Kuik referred to that as well. For example, I was just talking about our amendment on the raising of ventilation allowances in the interruptive debate with Mrs De Vries. My question to Mrs Van den Berg from the CDA is: what will the CDA do with the lessons we have learned in recent weeks? Will the CDA also take a closer look at proposals that we are making, for example about ventilation or better detection of variants, in order to support them in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u117	We have been arguing for a year to pay much more attention to ventilation. I just turned that in. So I just totally agree with Mrs Westerveld. Then it's about the search. In my opinion, Mr Van Dissel also responded to this in the previous technical briefing, namely that on average, even if you compare it internationally, we are already making many more comparisons than the other countries do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u118	Depends on what you compare it with. I did not intend to devote all my interruptions to ventilation at all, but because Mrs Van den Berg herself mentions it, I am going to say it anyway. It is a little different to stress the importance all the time than to do something afterwards. That is why I find it rather difficult to hear different parties here say that they have been arguing for a year for the importance of ventilation, when they then vote against it, if there are very concrete proposals. I find that difficult. So I would like to ask Mrs Van den Berg the following: if we are going to make another very concrete proposal to raise funds for ventilation in schools that are now scheduled for 2022 and 2023, can we count on the support of the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u119	I know that Mrs Westerveld has advocated this before. We would like to look at that, but we as CDA have also often indicated that we do not sign uncovered cheques. If there are possibilities, we would like to take them with us, because the importance is acknowledged. That is why, as a CDA, we have said before: why are we only looking at the renovation of schools? Why not look for other innovative solutions that may be much cheaper? 'Cause they're there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u120	Now it's pretending our amendment was an uncovered check, but it wasn't. This was a cash drawer where money that was already reserved was brought forward. There's nothing out of the ordinary about that. That was simply a neat amendment to solve a very practical problem, namely that there is not enough money for ventilation in schools. So let's not throw it at that, when this is an amendment that is neat, that is covered and that just works well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u121	Then I would like to hear the reaction of the cabinet, given all the discussion we have just had about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u122	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u123	I just ended by saying that vaccination is the best way to protect us. It is nice that so many young people want to be vaccinated, but especially in the region they are often dependent on parents or others to get to a vaccination street. Is the Minister prepared to scale up mobile delivery buses, in particular to reach young people in the region? The CDA is pleased with the letter we... Oh, sorry, Mr. Paternotte...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u124	I would ask you to finish your speech first and then I will give Mr Paternotte an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u125	We are very pleased with the letter we received on compensation. All unplaced events which are open to the public and for which a permit is required shall be eligible for compensation, either through the guarantee fund or through the additional concession events. The same goes for the unplaced village party. And that is precisely where it hurts, because many volunteers are involved, SMEs have taken financial risks and sometimes thousands of tickets have been sold. Only now we understand from the letter that the time limit for this additional allowance is until 14 August and that from that date it will simply be the same, whereas there are already entrepreneurs who have started events after that date. So why is that date not aligned with the guarantee fund, namely until 3 September? Mr. Chairman. Last Wednesday we had a debate on several corona letters. At that time I asked whether it is now clear to everyone what indicator, such as the sewage water, what action is being taken. The Minister indicated that he is working on this for the autumn and that he is holding weekly consultations with security regions in the coming months. Can the Minister give us a little more direction in the coming months? 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna get a yo-yo policy. We have already discussed the ventilation and my request for answers to my questions on this subject. Then I have one more question. We understand that there are still many non-mobile vulnerable and elderly people who have not yet been or have not yet been fully vaccinated. Can the Minister give us an update on this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u126	I was a little surprised that the CDA voted in favour of Mr Kuzu's motion. In fact, Mr Kuzu says: we should convince other European countries that they are no longer looking at the number of infections in the Netherlands but at the number of hospitalisations. What these other European countries want to know is how likely it is that a Dutchman will take the virus. And if there's a group that never goes on vacation, they're people who are in hospitals. So what argument would Mrs van den Berg suggest that the Minister could convince the other European countries that they should no longer look at the infections but at our hospital figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u127	Because there is a huge difference between countries to the extent to which testing is carried out and to the extent to which contamination is detected. So that's often just comparing apples and pears, while the number of hospitalisations per 100,000 inhabitants and the number of vaccinations per 100,000 inhabitants are indicators that are the same in all countries. So we want to go to those equals for the comparison within Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u128	I see little enthusiasm in other European countries for the time being. Let me just mention something that I found very positive about Mrs Van den Berg's speech, and that is that she pointed out that there are actually seven clusters of infections at festivals, which of course took place partly inside and partly outside, and much more at nighthoreca, where everything actually takes place, and that this also offers an opportunity to make things possible safely earlier. Would she like to work with me on a proposal to ensure that, from August onwards, we make this possible again safely with good enforcement at those outdoor locations, using the lessons from Germany, where they already do so, to ensure that we do not have to keep all festivals locked all summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u129	That is exactly why I put two questions to the Minister. Firstly, if we see that the figures are not so bad again, can measures be withdrawn before 13 August and relaxations take place? Secondly, can we perhaps turn certain festivals that are now in danger of disappearing into a field lab experiment, where there are many more conditions but which allow a lot of people to enjoy it? Like I said, when you're 16, a year really takes longer than when you're 61. I believe that we should meet young people as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u131	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister himself said it three weeks ago: we are taking a big step, even one of the largest in Europe. Become a little European champion after all! Well that has been done, only in a very different, very nasty way. The contagion rates are going through the roof. The access testing system, which was designed to be able to organise events safely, has become a failure. Testing for access has become a subsidised superspreader. The system is leaking, and we already knew that. Too many places in the chain, from testing to access to control and enforcement. My colleague Peter Kwint asked in the debate that was held three weeks ago after the relaxations were announced: is it not true that we are still going down in view of the finish line? And unfortunately, that's exactly what happened. Common sense was not followed. It was the speed, not the care. We have seen how the Prime Minister and, above all, the Minister of VWS were going to shift the blame. He literally said: people have made very eager use of the relaxations. My question to the Minister is: who exactly was very eager? Who exactly was very eager, when the DJ was already ready and was already playing to announce "dancing with Janssen"? Who exactly was very eager when Minister Grapperhaus started singing a funny song when he said goodbye to the mouth cap? "The land goes off the lock," tweets Hugo de Jonge after the relaxations have been announced. My question is: who exactly was too eager? Was that this cabinet that acted irresponsiblely with a leaking system? Or were they the people who listened to exactly what the cabinet told them, namely: it can again; the brakes can loose? Mr. Chairman. Apologies were then made. I sincerely wonder what we've been looking at. Were they excuses for an uncomfortable press conference? Were they excuses for the lack of self-reflection? Or has there also been an apology for the ill-thought-out and hasty way of relaxing the measures? We spoke earlier about the strategy. Does the Prime Minister and the Minister of the United States think that the strategy has also failed, that it has been sent to infections or hospitalisations rather than to reduce infections? Because what we've seen is that the number of infections was huge, exponential. We shouldn't look at the hospital admissions, we should look at the contagion rates and send them. Mr. Chairman. Apologies have been made and my party, the SP, believes that this should be followed up. You can't just say sorry, we've been here a lot of times slashing the sorry democracy, because that's not enough. You're not gonna get away with that. Then measures must also be taken. I told the VVD earlier: when it comes to events and festivals, the compensation must be 100%. People didn't choose it, they did make that huge cost, and they're stuck with it now. There's been no miscalculation. It's just been a cardinal blunder. An error of assessment is when I'm parking my car and I hit a pole. That's an error of assessment. But if you park the car across the road, you just can't drive. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, there are now more people who will have long-term covid as a result of this failure. I'd like to ask the Cabinet what it's gonna do for this group. I would also like to know what the compensation for the catering and events sector is. Will the costs be reimbursed 100%? How does the Cabinet deal with other measures to reduce damage? The homework was mentioned earlier. What other measures does the Cabinet take to limit the damage? Finally, Mr President, my final question. How can we prevent the Netherlands, as a country, from producing new virus mutations as an export product? Because with these numbers, the risk is enormous that in our country too the virus will mutate and that other countries will soon have to talk about the Dutch variant. I want to know from the Cabinet what happens to prevent that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u132	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u133	Mr. Chairman. Months of lockdown have actually been cancelled in two weekends of parties. It's actually so unnecessary and so acidic. I'm sorry about all those entrepreneurs who are back in the sack and ashes. I'm sorry for anyone who thought they'd have an uninhibited summer. Sorry for the people who have now become ill or perhaps remain ill for a long time because they develop covid. Apologies already to all the care staff, the general practitioners and all the other care workers, who now have to get back to work extra hard because we just haven't been paying attention. I'm sorry that this cabinet's mistakes have made the situation as it is. We've been relaxing too fast. The cabinet has begun to relax too quickly. There was a terrible communication: dancing, songs. That's why it's not so crazy that people thought it was "freedom, happiness" again, and basic measures were ignored. Sorry too that we did not follow all the OMT's advice literally and that the testing for access did not succeed in the way it was intended. I am also sorry that we ignored the warnings from experts and the experiences from abroad and that they have been beaten in the wind. I'm sorry I didn't bite you any harder as a Member of Parliament. That I did not say any more louder: this is going too fast and this is too unfocused. Sorry I didn't notice that the QR code for your corona passport was downloaded the day after your vaccination, so you could go dancing at the club. These are matters that we all have to face, and we also knew that when we relaxed on 26 June, we were actually above 1. On June 28, they were already above 2. We also knew that only 45% of all adults had had a second shot. We also know now that half a million vulnerable people, for example people who need to be pricked at home, have not even received a vaccine. Those were all facts that we already knew on June 26, when we wanted to go into the summer party. Mr. Chairman. Apologies are made, but what are they worth? My first question to the cabinet is: what exactly is the government saying sorry for and what has it learned from this situation? What is the government going to do very concretely to prevent us from relaxing or taking steps in the same way in the near future in the same way? My question is also: will the cabinet continue to send for hospitalizations or will it acknowledge that you also have to look at the containment of the virus and that you also have to send for infections, in order to prevent illness and, for example, mutations? Will the cabinet include behavior in the models that are constantly used? This has proved to be so essential in the high number of infections that exist today. Are we going to learn from countries around us, or are we going to stay stubborn Dutchmen? Is it not also wise to use the next few months for a real evaluation, as the WHO also prescribes and on which we have tabled a motion, but the cabinet still says: it is not necessary? Is the Cabinet prepared to do so now? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. My final questions. Are the measures now announced sufficient? Shouldn't we be thinking about encouraging homework again? Should we perhaps have to re-introduce the masks in vulnerable areas, as the hospitals now prescribe? Should we not be taking ventilation seriously, as a number of Members of Parliament have repeatedly asked? Mr. Chairman. Why are basic conditions still not in order? Testing is chaos again. Source and contact research can no longer be done. We're a year and a half ahead of the line. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet indicated on 26 June that it is taking a calculated risk. No, I have to conclude, it has totally miscalculated and calculated too quickly. We're really gonna have to learn for the future now. We will have to learn to dance with the virus that stays with us for a long time, but in such a way that it can be sensible and smart and we don't constantly switch into a kind of hip-hop from one to another with all the consequences of that, for ourselves, for entrepreneurs and for society as a whole. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago, on 24 June, the Chamber debate was on the announced relaxations that would take place over the weekend. In that debate, several colleagues, especially on the left, asked whether we were moving too fast. I then told you about my conversation with nurses who had looked at the press conference very differently, namely with heavy abdominal pain. In that debate we asked the cabinet a rhetorical question: where do we know about that variants of the virus are constantly underestimated? I also asked what happens if other countries refuse Dutch people during the holiday period, because we are turning red on the European map. In that debate, the Minister said he had good news. All the numbers would go in the right direction and we would color green. But that weekend we know that all of them went badly wrong in the nightlife: there was a hack in the system, QR codes were shared in whatsapp groups and some catering owners turned a blind eye. On Tuesday we were asked in Question Time how we can prevent this and whether enforcement is in order. The minister said it would be fine, but of course it didn't work out. For this reason, an additional parliamentary debate was scheduled last week. Proposals we made last week to reduce, for example, the validity of the test certificate from 40 hours to 24 hours, to better control virus variants, and to make money available for ventilation in schools earlier, were all strongly discouraged by this cabinet. Now we are back here and now it appears that the nurses' stomach pains were justified and that the workload in the hospitals will increase. Delayed care may be postponed for a further period. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I also know how many difficult choices this cabinet has to make in a very short time. I also know that we don't always know better, but there's been a lot going on here. That's why I'd like to ask the Cabinet how it looks at the past few weeks. And more importantly, what has been learned from it? What exactly do those excuses mean? I would like an extensive response from the cabinet. How will the cabinet improve communication? How are we really going to radiate this urgency, with attention to dilemmas, risks, uncertainties and also the role that people themselves have in preventing the virus from spreading? We will have to use the knowledge of scientists and the behavior unit of the RIVM. Mr. Chairman. I have to admit that sometimes we are a little disturbed by the framing of the cabinet. For example, the word 'wrong of estimation', which was very consciously mentioned at the press conference last Monday on a number of occasions. I think that's quite an understatement if you're going to relax beyond experts' advice. "Dancing with Janssen" has just been rightly mentioned. In the debate in the First Chamber, Minister De Jonge talked about "the discourse." Everyone wanted to relax. That is true, but that discourse is largely determined by the cabinet itself, I would like to give you this. Mr. Chairman. We look forward to adult communication on this rather than children's songs, word games and public relations from ministers. A lot of people are angry, and I understand that very well. First of all, because many people get sick, end up in hospital and get lung covid complaints. But it also affects young people who have kept to all measures for months. They thought they were safe, but they got sick anyway. It affects catering entrepreneurs and festival organizers. What about compensation for that industry and for these people? This is what I'm asking the Cabinet. I would also like to ask how the models can be improved. How do we prevent the cabinet from being surprised again? What impact can we expect from the measures? Why isn't the whole advice of the OMT taken over? If the OMT advises to leave a maximum of 24 hours between the test and the event, the cabinet will make it 40 hours. When the OMT says not to receive more than eight people at home, the cabinet says: parties must be held accountable. If the OMT says the catering industry should close at 10:00 p.m., the cabinet will make it 24:00 a.m. And the OMT also advises working at home. I know that the measures are a political consideration, but can the cabinet justify where the confidence comes from to deviate from these opinions? The confidence that the right considerations are made on the right grounds has been embarrassed over the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u136	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u137	I think we agree that a number of ministers may not have to sing anymore. I found it charming that some colleagues had some self-reflection about the role of the Chamber and their party. Now GroenLinks has previously submitted a proposal to use self-tests when testing for access. I wonder what the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is looking at. Was that also an error of assessment? I'd like a little more self-reflection on your part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u138	I think self-reflection is very good. And, of course, as a Chamber, we must also look at the role we have played in recent times. But let us not pretend that the whole Chamber has not made different proposals in recent times. Of course, self-testing has not yet been introduced at all. We did indeed talk about this test law a few weeks ago. We also voted in favour of the idea of testing for access. This has not worked well in some places in the execution and in other places, such as museums and sports, it has. But the proposals we have made on this point have not been taken into account in the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u139	I think it's important that we look at ourselves. We can ask a lot of questions and it is also right that they should be counted in the cabinet, but I am sorry that I do not see any more self-reflection from the Green Left on this point. In any case, I appreciate the colleagues who did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u141	I'd like to comment on this. I don't know what we should have more self-reflection on. We have indeed voted in favour of the law on testing for access, as well as the VVD and the majority of this Chamber. I'm still totally behind that law. That law also makes it possible for us to go back to museums, for example. It has gone very wrong in the execution. We've seen that. That is why we asked critical questions about this in Question Time with a very large number of colleagues. But to attack me now that we have voted in favour of a law that the VVD and the majority of the Chamber have also voted in favour of, which is not going well in its implementation, I think that is a special figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u142	I don't blame you for voting in favour of that law. That's what we did. I think that law still offers good opportunities. I am more concerned: how did we look at our role? What actions have we taken? Mrs Kuik has also indicated a number of things that she would do differently now. I myself indicated that we should have looked more closely and done everything more dosed. I was hoping for that self-reflection at GroenLinks. It's really not just about testing for access. I mean, it's really wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u143	Of course we should have done this dosed. But that's what you hear in my story. I would like to say that on 24 June, when the debate on the easing of the week was due to take place, we should indeed have slowed down. Several colleagues have also warned against this. Of course, we'll just admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u144	I think Mrs Westerveld is right to point out a lot of things that have not gone well and put the finger on the sore spot. At the same time, I also know GroenLinks as an optimistic party. So I would like to ask the question: are there any things that you think, also on the basis of experience, that they can be positive? Do you have any ideas on how to make more possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u145	I think it's good to take over the entire OMT advice. The OMT mentions various measures which actually hurt little and which can be introduced with quite a lot of ease, because we are already used to them. For example, Mr Paternotte mentioned the proposal on home working. Now we know that only a small proportion of the infections occur in the home situation, but I think it is very good that this is also advised urgently. It seems very good to me that the cabinet should also adopt the advice not to party "responsible" at home, but to limit the number of visitors. The OMT also advises on the earlier closure of the catering industry. I'm very curious how the cabinet looks at that. If the OMT and the RIVM behavior unit give advice, I think it is very good that these opinions are followed, and otherwise we will have very clear reasons why some opinions are not taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u146	Mrs Westerveld has mentioned a number of OMT opinions to which I would also like to comment. It seems to me that we can indeed quickly follow the advice on homework. But my question is, what can be done? Andreas Voss, member of the OMT, said that the infections at the festivals are much less than in the indoor spaces in the nighthoreca and that, insofar as there are infections at the festivals, which are probably mainly in the indoor tents. Can we not therefore conclude that this is a starting point, so that we do not have to keep everything closed all summer long? That is my question to GroenLinks, because that is what I expect from your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u147	If anyone would benefit from the fact that festivals are going to be safe, it is me, I say in all honesty. I wonder how the cabinet will react to this. A couple of field labs went well, too. Not all the points in the evaluation of those field labs have been taken into account. I am very curious about how this can be done, because we have seen a report in the media in recent days about a festival in Utrecht where there was a very high number of infections. I am very curious what the reasons were for that, because as far as I know, that was also a festival in the open air.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u148	This is why we asked RIVM yesterday to see exactly what happened and exactly where it happened. People went on a bus to the festival and there were also all tents where people have been inside for a long time. You want to know exactly what happened. In Germany they have just allowed outside dancing, with tests for access. There you don't see those superspreading events, because they do it combined: testing, good enforcement and outdoor air. I think, indeed, that as a festivalgoer you should say that you want to know how we can organize this here safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u149	That's what I really want to know. I know that Mr Paternotte asked that question. Yesterday we were in the same technical briefing. I'd be very happy to know where those infections come from. And let us indeed hope that as many events as possible can continue, but as safe as possible of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u150	I would like to put the same question to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks as I just asked D66. In Mrs Westerveld's speech, I also hear dissatisfaction about the steps taken and about the route that is being followed. At the same time, in Mrs Westerveld's speech, I hear the willingness to stick the patches that are needed. This raises the question as to whether GroenLinks would be prepared, following Mrs Kuik and me, for example, to deal radically with this policy of hospitalisation and as many infections as possible. Is it not time to say that policy and strategy must be radically different? I'd like to hear that from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u151	I think it is a very good and very fair question. A motion has also been tabled last year, I believe by GroenLinks, PvdA and SP, in which this was requested. We also supported Mrs Simons' motion calling for a change of policy. That motion was not adopted at the time and was not carried out. I think we can all see that steering only on hospital capacity is not working properly. It leads us to look at the wrong thing, which has made things incredibly out of control over the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u152	I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u153	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Once it became clear that the relaxations of 26 June had caused a huge peak, we understood the reversal of the relaxations, even though it is extremely difficult for the affected sectors and young people. But we had less understanding of the lack of recognition of errors, self-reflection and learning ability of this outgoing cabinet. There is certainly something to charge for this cabinet. Because despite warnings and critical questions from OMT and Chamber, risk of risk was stacked. It was more relaxed than planned, while the delta variant was already advancing. All the trekking around was released, while the OMT has often warned against the import of virus variants from abroad. The behavioral effect of radiating that everything can do again was not taken into account, while the behavioral unit of the RIVM had already warned. The catching-up behaviour of young people was not taken into account. It was the explicit wish of the Chamber to include the insights of these behavioral scientists in the measures. My group therefore wonders what happens to these opinions. Are they being taken? I am very curious whether the cabinet can reflect on this. The validity of an access test was extended from 24 hours to 40 hours, contrary to the OMT recommendation. Criticism from the Chamber was waved away from this. We are curious how the cabinet looks back on this. Because young people were sent out unprotected by dancing with Janssen, while the impression was created that it was safe. It was also a way to persuade young people to obtain a vaccine, the Minister admitted. Therefore, lawyers argue that the Dutch government has failed to fulfil its duty of care. This is a very serious matter. I wonder how the Minister made this happen. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, testing for access is a dangerous form of false security. The system has made the cabinet careless. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, this really must be the end of testing for access. It just failed. It's a system of exclusion anyway. We have warned of this from the beginning. Now we also see that it doesn't work. This hits the hospitality and event sector very hard. The sector must now wait until mid-August if they can continue to organise activities. As far as we are concerned, this is unacceptable, as the sector also says in terms of preparation time. We are happy that the letter just sent guarantees a 100% remuneration, butzzp'ers working in the event industry have now quit their temporary job in order to get back to work at these events. Again they stand empty-handed. They stand empty-handed in the hair. Then what is being done for them? How do we guarantee that the extra money that has now been released will actually end up with these makers who need that money so badly? For that has so far, they also indicate, hardly happened. Mr. Chairman. A motion to establish a national registration point for lung covid patients was adopted two weeks ago. But I understood from the RIVM that a study doesn't actively collect patient registrations, but that it only happens on a login basis. In short, there is no national registration point. The intention of the motion is to get an overview of the total numbers of lung covid patients in the Netherlands. But the events of the last two weeks seem to me to make the need for such a registration point even greater. Is the Minister prepared to still take the motion, implement it and commit himself to it? Mr President, one final point. We have heard an apology for the errors of judgment surrounding the relaxations. We have heard apologies to journalists for the course of the press conference. Wednesday, a week ago, the House of Representatives was told that there was no problem. Critical questions from the Chamber were answered with a conviction of one's own equal that is bound to be secure. As always, the policy was determined a few days in advance and was practically fixed afterwards. Good ideas from the opposition parties were thrown away. How does the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS look back on those debates with the Chamber? Do they recognise that contradiction is oxygen for our democracy and is therefore indispensable for the fight against crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u155	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this beautiful Knight's Room, I prefer to celebrate Prince's Day once a year. It is a pity that the situation is so different, that the corona pandemic is still among us and that the number of infections is so serious that we have this debate in the Knight's Room. Mr. Chairman. It is painful that the virus flares up again and to this extent, and we see infections especially among young people, but we hold our hearts for vulnerable people who have not yet been or have not been fully vaccinated but who would wish for it. It is difficult for the care staff, who are still deeply concerned about giving all care, including recovery care. It's exciting for patients waiting for delayed care. It is also exciting for those Dutch who have worked hard all year long, all those corona measures have persisted and now look forward to holiday. How's that gonna work out? Mr. Chairman. Last week there was already discomfort at the quiet presentation of the RIVM, while we knew that the delta variant not only smoldered, but also founded fireplaces. An additional OMT advice was urgently needed. Over the last few days, we've been asking for reflection from all of us. It is good that the Prime Minister has apologized for the way in which the press conference took place. But this does give some thought to how we continue to look at information and decision-making. Can we catch this furiously contagious variant in a better way of working? After all, we see that it is still exciting for people who need to be vaccinated and we fear breakthroughs in the vulnerable neighbourhoods. The Group of the European People's Party therefore wishes to see the OMT's recommendation to consult on a weekly basis at this stage in which the whole world seems to be changing per week. I ask the Minister to do so as long as the R is above 0.9, as was customary in the previous waves of this pandemic. Mr. Chairman. In addition, this phase also calls for a review of the strategy. Are the objectives of the cabinet still: to keep an eye on the spread of the virus, the protection of the vulnerable and the maintenance of care? Or should a different weighting be made and, if so, which one? Sometimes it seems to be a bit of a hunch on two thoughts. I hear that in this room, too. Because yes, we would like the Netherlands to be green and what would be happy to take good care of all those young people, including those who have now acquired long covid. We'd love to avoid that. At the same time: can we prevent all this? Is that even doable? Is that even a trade-off we're dealing with? Mr. Chairman. On what grounds does the cabinet decide in the coming weeks? What does the cabinet depend on? Or is the measures no longer being implemented until 13 August? Back to the situation now. Why is the OMT opinion not fully followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u157	Perhaps you could finish your speech before being interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u158	Yes, I'm going to do my best, Mr. Chairman. Eight people at home, 10:00 p.m., shut down the catering business and work at home. Perhaps we should take a little more from the Protestant human image, namely the idea that you do want the good but do not always do the good, and also include that in the behavioral advice of RIVM. I ask the cabinet how it looks back on recent times, especially with regard to the consideration of these opinions. Mr. Chairman. My last big point is the vaccination of vulnerable people in the neighbourhoods where things aren't that good. Is everything done to get the GGDs to make their mobile deployment complete right there? I hear wonderful examples from Rotterdam-Delfshaven of how people are reached who otherwise get bad information. At the same time, this is being stopped, now that 60 people need to be released to reach all those people. It just seems too labour-intensive right now. But that's where we have to win this fight. I ask the cabinet to do all it can to reach out to these vulnerable people in these neighbourhoods, together with municipalities and stakeholders. Mr. Chairman. Washing hands, 1.5 meters, mouth caps: it's all pounded in at our kindergarten. He himself mentions that as the basis of what is needed at this time, "and trust in God," he says. I like that. I'll add windows open, ventilation. I would like to ask the Ministers: please, let us ensure that the two existing schemes for schools, the current 100 million people who are almost or completely exhausted, and the new ones that are coming, do not stand in the way of school applications for ventilation. I would like to have a commitment from the cabinet on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u159	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. There is an interruption by Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u160	I am glad that I was able to hear that last part, because that is where Mrs Bikker and I find each other absolutely; thank you for this passionate call to ensure good ventilation in schools as well. But I hit it and I went to the microphone when I heard Mrs Bikker say that she is clinging to two thoughts when it comes to the strategy. I'd like to ask you about that. The Christian Union was one of the parties that voted against Mr Dassen's and myself's motion for a radical change of course. In expressing this doubt, Mrs Bikker asked a number of questions to the cabinet, but I would also very much like to hear an answer from the Christian Union itself. If such a motion were tabled today, would the Christian Union still not support it? Or has the party gained a moving insight in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u161	Good question. I've been very clear. I found the cabinet's strategy to be a very good one, to look at the health care system in particular, what has been going on there and how we are protecting the vulnerable. That is still at the heart of my speech today. That's what you heard. How do we protect the vulnerable? It is about people who have not yet been able to be vaccinated, simply because they were not their turn. This is even about 60- to 64-year-olds in Gelderland who are still waiting for their second AstraZeneca vaccination by the GP. That sucks. First of all, these people must be protected. I still think that's the most important thing. I asked the cabinet earlier, together with Mr Van der Staaij, thinking that we would go to the more endemic phase, because the delta variant was even less pregnant at the time: cabinet, please see what a sensible strategy is for the follow-up. On the one hand, I don't think we can control all the diseases. We shouldn't want to. At some point, you have a weighting to make in the limitation of fundamental rights as we know them now. How do you deal with that when everyone has been able to get vaccinated? Then you'll be in a different situation. Then I also think that you should look at which goals are appropriate at that time to deal with restrictions that you still impose or no longer impose. But you also have to look at the legislation that we have and whether we are going back to the legislation as we know it, so just the Public Health Act instead of all kinds of temporary laws. That's the second part of my answer. Then the third part. Sorry, chairman, someone from the Christian Union likes to preach in three points. The third part looks at the part on which Mrs Simons tabled the motion which says: can you not sit even closer on it? I have outlined that I see that the cabinet is holding on to the strategy as it has been put in place. At the same time, we all feel the holiday burning now and we see people reacting and thinking: should we go to a slightly different strategy? If we were to do that, I think that would require an amendment of the law and of the temporary law and of everything that is based on it. I don't think it's up to the moment, just because we see the delta variant pupping up hugely. Then it's important that we follow that outbreak closely. But my thinking doesn't stand still, because we're a year and a half away. This has been established before. I also very much like to hear how the cabinet reflects on this. I had asked Mr Van der Staaij to come back to that in September. I hope that's on the early side of September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u162	Thank you for this comprehensive answer, Madam President, to Mrs Bikker. Mrs Bikker, can you imagine that by not sending them on ic-capacity care would be less burdened at all, which would mean that we would not be dealing at the moment with care personnel who fail, either because they are overtired, or because they themselves are affected by the new variant, thinking that after a year and a half they could have fun? Sending to ic-capacity is unwise, no matter what scenario you follow. I have not kept track of how the Christian Union voted, but that is certainly a reason for BEL1 not to vote very eagerly for laws that do indeed undermine fundamental rights. I do not think that steering on ic capacity is desirable or effective at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u163	First, I have a nuance, because I think there's really been a look at hospitalizations and not just at ic-recordings. That's what I'm saying for the sake of nuance. I almost think: if only it were that easy or doable to make that all the way out. We now see again how heavy the delta variant is present. I have already asked the Minister in many ways to do so and, when the level of contamination is low, to ensure that the regions can intervene, so that you can do the approach much more focused rather than national. You can find those motions from my hand. They're often supported. You have to, because you need 76 votes for that. I think we got into that together. Where you can be firmer and that promotes fundamental rights, freedom, I say yes. But my fear is that if we sit on everything completely flattened, while it will develop differently if there is a high vaccination rate, we'll actually go back to a whole lockdown. You're really gonna have to shut down a lot if you're gonna stop the virus completely. So there's my search. Of course I want to banish all evil. That's how you know me. But what is feasible in this country? That's the quest of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u164	Thank you. I'm afraid you've been through your interruptions, Mrs Simons. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u165	Thank you, Madam President. A year and a half ago it was unthinkable: a state of medical apartheid, a QR society, a society where social exclusion has become law. No one could have imagined it. They were supposed to be conspiracy theories. But today, in more and more places, this scare is the hardest, everyday reality. In Greece, access to cafes and restaurants for unvaccinated people is prohibited from the day after tomorrow. In France, from August onwards, you will not enter any public space without a QR code. So either you throw your physical integrity and your privacy into the old dirt, or you're out of the game and you're discriminated against as a second-class citizen. Here in the Netherlands too, in the once so free Netherlands, this new form of discrimination is being rolled out at a rapid pace. A majority of supposedly decent parties is standing by, looking at it and refusing to speak out against it. And that is when all the alarm bells should go off right now, because history has shown what such a horrific attitude of tacit approval of discrimination can lead to. The great lie behind all this is that these degrading and discriminatory measures would be necessary for public health. We'd all be in mortal danger. A total collapse of our society would threaten. Everyone would be in mortal danger. It is a lie so great, so comprehensive that many people simply cannot and want to believe that someone could do so much violence to the truth. However, we must note that all this is simply not the case and that the whole corona policy is based on a web of ruse and deception. Fortunately, more and more people are beginning to see this, if only because there is no satisfactory answer to the most obvious questions. Why does the government always use this terrifying term "contaminations" when it comes to positive tests? That is factually incorrect and very misleading. And why are the stricter measures taken purely because of an increased number of positive tests, when hospitals are virtually empty and the occupation in hospitals is even falling? I thought we were doing this to protect care. Now that it has been shown that corona is no more dangerous than a heavy seasonal flu, why not treat corona in this way, as in the meantime many countries and also states in the United States, without causing any significant problems? Why, for the first time in history, is it necessary to vaccinate even perfectly healthy children for a disease that is not even dangerous for children themselves? This has never happened in Dutch history, not least with experimental gene therapy whose long-term side effects are completely unknown. And what does the cabinet say to the many hundreds of thousands of young people who have often been reluctantly injected simply because they were told that they would get their freedom back? Turns out this was a lie, too. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you can fool all people. Some people can always be fooled, but you can't always fool all people. More and more people see us being deceived, manipulated and lied to. More and more people see that the policy is not aimed at getting corona under it at all, but at getting the population under it. Forum for Democracy continues to fight until this great lie like a house of cards collapses and the Netherlands is freed from this tyranny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u166	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Belgian minister called it "jojo policy." I'd like to come back to what I'm getting from care. The pressure on care is the whole and interplay of the zero, first and second line and gives early insight. The pressure on hospital figures, on the other hand, is about the recordings for covid care in cohort and in ic, which provides insight. That's why they're pleading for just looking at infections and not the number of hospital admissions. Carers say we're in the mess of something they once called "care." Regular care cannot yet be started, because covid is now starting to take the hospital beds again. I am shocked by this, because the combination of measures and vaccination cannot yet be abandoned. We need both. As long as we as a country but also as a world are not sufficiently vaccinated, we cannot afford to let go of measures. We can live more stable in the second gear than this jerky driving behavior of standstill and then the fifth gear; this makes everyone despondent. So never let go of measures so fast and so much. I really hope that class came in. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Then vaccinate it. Also in the Netherlands, where vaccination readiness is high, there is heterogeneity. Neighbourhoods with a migration background in large cities, the Biblebelt, but also the coronades information supporters are a risk to themselves and to public health. That is why I very much appreciate the fact that the minister in the newspaper called on the Christian supporters to be vaccinated. In addition, I believe that health services should be given more time, space and resources to reach more people in those neighbourhoods, especially in the big cities. In addition, however, we need to make more work with each other of the ease with which coronade information is disseminated. Yesterday, researchers from the University of Groningen told me that misinformation is distributed on Facebook and is not removed by Facebook. I've contacted Facebook about this and they recognize this in part. My request to the Minister is therefore to write a letter to Facebook and, if necessary, to raise it with colleagues from European countries, because I suspect that this will be the case in more places. Because that is ultimately the best way out of this pandemic: vaccinate! Then from big tech to big pharma, yet another news about the pharmaceutical industry that made me despondent and angry: Moderna uses letterboxes, e.g., and tax havens. While Moderna's vaccines have been developed by universities and through government subsidies. Moderna, I hope you're watching and ashamed of yourselves. Colleagues, I would like to ask you all to invite Moderna to a round table after the recess, in which we can ask them about this behavior. I should also like to hope that, beyond the umpteenth tax incident, they will think about how we are going to make tax havens and mailboxes legally impossible, but for now, I want to express my morale. Then there's global vaccination. For Volt the world was and continues to vaccinate the best exit from this pandemic, otherwise it is waiting for the next variant of somewhere in the Greek alphabet that our current vaccines are unable to cope with. Our demand is therefore to focus on expanding production, so that the pace at which vaccines can be produced and used can be increased. Where are we at the WTO right now in order to achieve this? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u168	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Governing is forward-looking. For that, you need to know what you're looking at and where you're heading. This cabinet controls the Netherlands by looking backwards. Prime Minister Rutte and Minister De Jonge have united the whole country in confusion. Everyone's lost. Already weeks ago it was clear that the delta variant came this way via abroad. According to the Minister, there was no need to close the borders. In addition, a test-for-access system was rigged to allow large-scale events to take place again. In particular, the large festivals would be visited by young people who would then be tested without medical indication. It was therefore clear that the test incidence would increase significantly, especially in the case of a relatively underexposed group. The result can be guessed. Many more tests, many more positive tests and many more positive tests in the group under 30. The share of the delta variant is also obvious. Nevertheless, there seems to be some surprise and fear in both the OMT and the cabinet. This brings me to my first question. The Minister assured me that the motion on preparing scenarios for the autumn was unnecessary. After all, the cabinet already works with that. Then why does the current situation come as a thundering surprise? How is it possible that behavior has not been taken into account in any way? During the technical briefing, many questions were answered. But what I could not be answered to was the question "how scared should we be?" To what extent will infections among young people mostly unvaccinated in the non-risk group lead to increased uptake or mortality in the older, well vaccinated risk group? JA21 calls on the government to change its approach: realistic and to face the fact that the virus is and will remain among us. We have to learn to live with it, according to professor of virology Louis Kroes of the LUMC. Mr Wilders also referred to him. Infections with covid will continue, even after the vaccination targets have been met. The question is: what purpose do we set ourselves? Do we want to protect the old and vulnerable people from the corona virus and prevent the hospitals from flooding? Do we want to prevent anyone from getting sick or do we even want to prevent all the infections? This remains unclear. Hence my question to the Minister: what is the purpose? And from that, how do we proceed? Are we going to continue with measures that keep a whole country in a constant state of uncertainty? It's not March 2020 anymore, it's mid-July 2021. We've gained knowledge, and we've gained experience. It is high time to take advantage of it, rather than let us suck into a technocratic tunnel vision. JA21 wants a broader view of society. Over and over again, my group has called for a look beyond series of tables and graphs. The Chamber has adopted with broad support a motion from my group to develop scenarios, really scenarios. JA21 calls on the Cabinet to submit these scenarios to the Chamber as soon as possible after the recess. As far as my group is concerned, I would point out what we want to include. Dealing with risks is the starting point, rather than trying to eliminate them. In addition, we ask for the development of a set of criteria for risk weighting, rather than a single national indicator. This makes it possible to adopt a regional approach. My group has already argued for this in our Delta Plan covid and has repeatedly stressed this. This could also now ensure that, if we want to take additional measures, we can do so in the infection zones, without the whole of the Netherlands having to suffer. I will close with four questions to the Minister. Question one: what does the Minister want to send to right now, on infections, recordings or a third option? Question two: is the Minister working on scenarios, as requested by the Chamber with broad support? Question three: Is the Minister prepared to launch a change of direction in the short term which will allow a regional fight against covid? With question four, I take a look at the holiday. There are free tests for people going abroad, but it takes 72 hours for you to get the results, while the test should not be older than 48 hours. This poses serious problems for people who go on vacation. Can the Minister ensure that capacity becomes available quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u170	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u171	Madam President. I find it special to be gathered here today in this historic Knight's Room, a hall in which you normally only come annually to listen to the Throne speech and about the only words you say "Live the King!" Or "Live the Queen!" ............................................................................... But now we have a debate on the state of Corona. And I was a little triggered by those throne-redess. I thought: how would that actually have sounded here about 100 years ago in the Throne speech, when the Spanish flu was raging through the world and also in the Netherlands caused many thousands of victims? It was striking that this was hardly mentioned in the speech of the throne. The debates in the Chamber were not so strong about this either; there was little or little attention given to it. The fight against infectious diseases was mainly left to doctors and municipal authorities, and it was limited from the cabinet's side to general advice: pay attention to personal hygiene, avoid large-scale meetings and think about ventilating. At that time, according to the standards of today, the Hague was very absent. At the same time, the lesson is that we must not expect the full benefits of models, measures and ministers. There is certainly a need for alertness, but on the other hand let us also guard against blind panic as soon as the virus does not move within the framework of the last press conference. What the SGP expects of the cabinet is always a critical reflection on the choices and assessments made. Learning is more important to us than apologizing. What do we learn from it if things went differently than we thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u172	Perhaps you should go further, and I will give the floor to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u173	Fine. What is the lesson the VWS Minister has learned from the "dancing with Jansen" drama? The commitment to increasing the vaccination rate is understandable, but isn't it an example of shot-through promotion in this way, which deserves no imitation? And when it comes to increasing the vaccination rate, I ask the Minister when there will be more freedom of choice for people who have objections to a particular type of vaccine for medical or ethical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u174	Thank you. Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u175	That is of course also because the SGP was the only political party that existed at the time, eh, at the time of the Spanish flu. So how does the SGP look back on the government's approach to the Spanish flu, and what lesson can we draw from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u176	I wasn't there myself. Mr Paternotte understands that. But the SGP was there. I don't think there have been any debates about it. In 1918 she had just been founded, but not yet represented in the Lower House. Perhaps there would have been said, for example, around those massive, large-scale meetings... You can say it easily, but it is not easy when it is needed again. After Troelstra's failed revolution announcement, the Malieveld flooded with 40,000 people while the Spanish flu was around value! Once again, there was a tension between the general advice and how it was done in practice. So you can really focus on one... It remains striking that the whole Spanish flu is also a footnote in the history books and that everything is about the First World War. Of course, it was also very important, but sometimes it had a much less direct impact on people's lives than that Spanish flu that was around value. The lesson is to keep a sharp eye on which points really play and which fronts deserve your attention. At least that's one thing we can learn from it. If we keep the middle between not being too passive on the one hand but thinking 'everything is going to be okay', and on the other hand don't expect everything from government measures, then I think we will follow a safe course. Oh yes, finally: the Ruijs de Beerenbrouck cabinet had announced a general prayer day, to be held in November of 1918. That is also always a worthy goal. Mr. Chairman. For the SGP, the recent explosive increase shows that there is too much confidence in access testing and the immediate effect of vaccines. Too easy a job has been given to nightlife. Every blow to the arm wasn't there. The tightening-up that has now been achieved is therefore understandable. Proposals have rightly been made about, or have been asked to make extra effort on, the issue of ventilation. I'd like to join you again. However, for the SGP, it is not automatic that contamination should always be followed by strict government measures in the future. How can we prevent us from going unnoticed on the road of controlling infections rather than protecting the vulnerable and preventing the overload of care? What is being done to inform citizens more and to appeal to common sense behaviour, so that not everything is expected from the government and nothing is allowed, or everything is allowed? There is also always a responsibility of its own. Mr. Chairman. There was a lot of attention coming and coming. There's a lot of catching up to do. As long as the virus is around, we have to count on the increase in hospital taxes. My question to the Minister for Medical Care is: how will care workers be prevented from leaving because it can no longer be sustained? What support can there be in the administrative burden, which many suffer from, especially when there is pressure on it? Mr President, I shall conclude. I started with the throne speech of 1918. I told you, it was a chaotic time, so at the end of World War I, a time when the Spanish flu struck many people deadly. Queen Wilhelmina declared at that time that the ordinary session of the States-General opened in this Chamber, with the final saying: that God may strengthen our people in harmony and through the difficult times may lead us to better days. That prayer fits now, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u177	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After a long time of lockdowns, limitations, a lot of stress, loneliness and increasing depression, the Netherlands finally went back to normal a few weeks ago. One could go on vacation again. The catering industry went as good as completely open again and festivals could take place. Of course, my group understands that this could not be done without risk. Well, that's turned out to be the case. Infection rates are rising and the reproduction number is now 2.17, the highest level since 24 February 2020. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore a good thing that the Chamber has returned from recess and that we have come together today to reflect on the situation that has arisen. Because what exactly went wrong? Then, of course, I can talk about the drama of the BCOs, the corona app, the CoronaCheck app, the access tests, the travel tests and dancing with Janssen. But to see where it really goes wrong, we need not only to look at what measures are working or not and what success or failure, but above all to see how these measures have been implemented. Then I end up testing for access, with which young people have been told a root that they can take up normal life. It is therefore not surprising to see that young people went out on the weekend of 26 June. It's even naive to assume they wouldn't. The last relaxations were based on that ill-thought-out test law. That is what we discussed in the Chamber for 12 hours. At that time my group also indicated that this test society already in the pilots did not provide sufficient certainty of success. My group has indicated that testing is not foolproof and occasionally produces such a false negative. In a festival setting where hundreds of people gather, it is inevitable that a few infected persons disappear under the radar and infect some others. However, before the results could be properly reflected, the cabinet had already decided to allocate hundreds of millions of dollars and to build the policy on this. In blind faith in that test society, it has finally been decided to abandon virtually all restrictions. And I say immediately: DENK was also for those relaxations, but then checked. DENK has always argued in favour of maintaining the basic measures and only those measures, which are relaxing when, for example, the one-and-a-half meter measure can be complied with. In the meantime it has also been decided to temporarily restrict the catering industry after twelve and festivals. As far as my group is concerned, that is a good compromise, provided that the damage suffered is well compensated. Because it is simply not justified to continue in this way. Despite the huge increase in the number of infections, it should also be said that the number of hospitalisations has not yet increased with the number of infections. By far the largest group of Dutch people affected in the past period, the group of young people aged between 20 and 24 is concerned. These are often people who are perfectly healthy and corona without going through too much trouble. Above all, we should not let these contagion rates drive us crazy. Last week, a motion was adopted in which we advocate the use at European level of hospitalisations as a leading indicator. I can also imagine that European colleagues from this minister are not waiting for the Netherlands at the moment because of the increased numbers, but simply speaking about absolute contamination rates, we are also unnecessarily scaring our people. A more realistic picture is the number of hospitalisations. Mr President, I shall close, because I see that I am out of time. The holiday period has arrived. Many Dutch people are already on holiday and many Dutch people plan their holidays. Many people also wonder what this will do with the planned holidays. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect briefly on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u179	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am generally a positive person and I do not like to point the finger, but there is now a situation in which we have to look very critically at policies and decisions that have been taken. In doing so, we all have to look honestly at our own role. The number of infections in the age cohorts 18 to 24 and 25 to 29 has increased explosively. The reproduction number is above 2. On the advice of the minister, that group went dancing with Janssen, with all the consequences. The majority of the Chamber has agreed to testing for access. Unfortunately, this execution went badly, but also on the basis of predictive values of behaviour we could have known that the number of infections would increase significantly. Mrs Timen said yesterday in the technical briefing that the prediction of behavior cannot be measured in models. And that's right; you can only measure what actually happened. But behavioral scientists have indeed pointed out risks. So you can't measure it in advance, but you can predict it. From the start of the corona crisis, I regularly get annoyed by the communication around corona. I have said a few words about this in my previous contributions. Of course, I understand that this pandemic is extremely complicated and that complex considerations need to be made, but I honestly sometimes wonder why so many experts are consulted if they are not or are not fully listened to. The call from society and the pressure from the media seems to have more influence on the decision-making of the cabinet than the advice of experts. And that's not wise. Because as Peter Kanne said on Radio 1, society seems as changeable as the virus. At first, the call for relaxation was very loud; now 80% think we should tighten up. Mr. Chairman. The basic rules of effective communication are that you know your audience and target groups, that you know what lives and that you also listen to them of course. But this is a matter of public health. This should include advice from medical experts and also behavioral scientists. After all, they can best predict how people will behave and therefore what the effects of measures can and will be. So far it seems sometimes: what the public has to do is what the cabinet does. A lot of colleagues have already asked questions about ventilation, holidays and color codes, so I'm not going to do that again. I have two more questions. 60% of the elderly aged between 60 and 64 years have been fully vaccinated. The highly contagious delta variant is emerging and the people who have not yet been fully vaccinated are therefore at great risk. What is the Minister going to do to get this group fully vaccinated quickly? Finally, Mr President. In other countries the third shot is started. What are we going to do in the Netherlands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u181	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President and citizens of the Netherlands: governance is forward-looking, only not in the Netherlands. Here's government afterwards saying sorry. On Monday, the Minister and the Prime Minister apologized for the bad press conference on Friday, in which they did not want to reflect on their error of judgment. I'd rather say a straight-up screw-up. For example, you can go dancing with Janssen immediately after your shot, while the advice in the package leaflet is to wait two weeks. But it was okay. The Minister himself said: get tested, take a vaccine, get out of your mind! The Minister of Health! The behavior has not been calculated. Behavior of young people, who have been known for centuries to love looking for the edges. Every young generation does that, and especially the generation that has been locked for a year and a half. A blind horse could have seen that coming. A great blunder by the leaders of our country, who must lead us through the greatest crisis after the Second World War. I hold my heart for the Netherlands if there is an even bigger crisis. Mr. Chairman. What do we buy to say sorry? What do young people buy for it who are now being dismissed as culprits? What do the catering companies buy, and the festival organizers who are now sitting with a big noose? Sages to young people as a cause of the withdrawal of freedoms is very misplaced. There's an excuse for that, too. Mr. Chairman. I have said it before, and here it has been said a few times: covid is and remains a part of our lives. We need to find a way to deal with this as best we can. It seems as if the policy now has only one goal: no one is ill. That's a utopia. It cannot be that we keep locking our society down for a small group that gets infected, of whom only a small part really gets ill. Where is this cabinet's vision of a society with covid? Protect the vulnerable and keep the pressure on care low. That was the Cabinet Chamber's mandate to take action. And it worked. As a result of vaccinations, fewer people become ill and infected people become less ill. The hospital records are proof of that. The number of hospitalisations has even fallen compared to the relaxations of 26 June, when everything was literally and figuratively released. Done! Then why do we have to tighten up now? Because there are more infections, more positive-tested individuals? Because there might be more hospitalizations? In my view, this is not why the Court has accepted the emergency law or extended it. Or has the target changed without us knowing this? I'd like some clarity from the Secretary of State. Regarding the low number of hospitalisations: how many people are in hospital with covid and what age are they? How many people are included in these recordings where covid is secondary to their hospitalization? And what age classes are now located directly by covid in the hospital and on the ic? How many of these people have been vaccinated and what vaccination have they had? Is it known exactly where they were infected? Please answer these questions. Last week, a motion was adopted that states that hospitalisations should lead to the tightening up of covid measures. Is this motion being carried out? During the technical briefing, where many questions were not answered by Mrs Timen, there was no mention of the immunity that is now generated by the high level of contagion among young people. The only credo is: pricking, pricking, pricking. Despite the Minister's words, there is no imposition of vaccination and there is no need for vaccination: without vaccination you are not part of it and you are excluded. That compulsion, or at least urge, is there. How can this be maintained and why test at all if you don't have any complaints? BBB therefore wants an end to testing for access and the money directly to the care. Finally. Entrepreneurs in the Netherlands can insure themselves against entrepreneurial risks, but no one can insure themselves against cabinet risks. With this Prime Minister and Prime Minister at the helm, there will be no insurer who will ever burn his fingers to offer such a policy. Unfortunately for this cabinet, the results achieved in the past offer guarantees for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u183	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Beware of too much optimism, warns scientist who had previously criticized second wave approach." That headlined EenVandaag on June 18th. "Is corona over, or is there a fourth wave coming?" NPO Radio 1, July 1. "The Netherlands softens: experts see a repeat of last summer." NRC, July 2. Mr. Chairman. Every expert warned about it. Every newspaper wrote about it. Even the average twitterer felt it from his water. But Mr Rutte and Mr De Jonge were attacked by the new, overwhelming wave of contamination. This cabinet's smear policy strikes back like a boomerang. It fits in with a longer line of anti-scientific rhetoric to disguise malpractice. At first, the test capacity was out of order. Let's see what we heard then... Oh, yeah, then the mouth caps wouldn't work, then children couldn't get corona, then the cabinet failed to intervene in time for the second and third wave and then the unscientific field lab projects came. I'll leave out some scandals, but here we are again. Mr. Chairman. I don't believe for a second that the gentlemen were robbed by a fourth wave. And so the excuses aren't worth anything. After all, the government's strategy is and will continue to be the strategy of controlling the spread of the virus, resulting in herd immunity. Once again, as long as the hospitals are not full, let's just get the infections, let's make public health dependent on the number of beds available on the ic's and let's forget that lung covid is coming. The cabinet does not aim to protect public health, but consciously makes the criminal and unethical choice, as far as I am concerned, to put people at risk. By definition, I find it unethical to steer on ic-capacity. In doing so, the cabinet determines for whole groups in the country that they may be at risk of becoming ill. This time it happened to be the kids. In the economic calculations of the cabinet, with the popularity figures in mind, a very large group is also forgotten. These are the 30,000 dead, who cannot testify that this cabinet's strategy was a success. That's potentially hundreds of thousands of lung covid patients. Those are the people with a migration background, people in vulnerable neighbourhoods, who were consistently overlooked by both the OMT and this cabinet. And it is the people from the risk groups who, as it turns out, have remained at home all this time, because the cabinet did not want to stop the virus immediately, directly. At the same time, a bunch of shareholders could cash in on the crisis, the pharmaceutical companies with the help of the Netherlands refused to give up their patents, which continues to create new variants, working people get the middle finger, flex workers andzzp'ers are fired and entrepreneurs face huge income losses. The constant yo-yo between what's allowed and what's not has its impact on all of us. For more than a year and a half we have no security to hold on to, and so the emotions are understandable, from regret and guilt to anger and sadness. That is why I would like to confirm once again that nobody but this outgoing cabinet is blamed for the fourth wave. Not the kids. Not the nightlife. Not the people who can't be reached by the GGD in the disadvantaged areas. No, not her. It is the policy choices of this outgoing cabinet that have once again placed the interests of some above the interests of all of us. That must be done, starting with a strong, firm strategy change. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u185	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u186	Mr. Chairman. Democracy in the Netherlands is dead. We're not even ruled by decree, we're ruled by press conference. Friday our freedom was taken away again in a way that even the scariest corona believers couldn't understand. First of all, the number of positive PCR tests doesn't mean anything at all. With a low prevalence, the number of false positives is well above 90%. In addition, the percentage of positive tests is increased because people with a negative self-test no longer go to the test street. All this deception with so-called infections can no longer be attributed to incompetence. It is downright criminal and leads to great damage. How has the Kuzu/Van Haga motion been implemented, which calls on the cabinet not to send for infections, but to bed occupancy in hospitals? How can you cheat entrepreneurs in the event business and in the nighthoreca? After a year and a half without sales, they finally got back into the dystopian test society. It is unforgivable to announce one day in advance that the festivals that were planned could be demolished again. All artists can go home crying again. From controlled festivals directly to parties in damping cellars and barns. This is abuse of power by bad leaders who play with the lives of entrepreneurs. My hope is based on Duncan Stutterheim's interim proceedings, and I sincerely hope that the judge will cut down this disproportionate disproportion. The parliamentary inquiry follows. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I wonder how the young people must feel by Minister De Jonge. Dancing with Janssen and having a frikandell shot with experimental gene therapy and then you were allowed to go to festivals, discotheques and travel again. They're all stuck in it, all vaccinated and all locked up again, back into social prison. The worst part is that this minister admits it, too. He deliberately tricked them into increasing their vaccination readiness. Why? To protect elderly people who don't want to be vaccinated. What a misdemeanor! This madness stops when this Chamber realizes that corona is no more than a heavy flu or when people decide to stop being tested. From today on, let's never test again, for the sake of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u187	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The directors have indicated that they need about 45 minutes to prepare themselves. I'm suspending until about 4:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u188	I ask Members to take their place again. The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments regarding the coronavirus. First of all, I give the floor to the outgoing Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u189	Chairman. I should actually ask Mr Wilders what it was like here in 1951, at the last debate the House of Representatives held here. Unfortunately, he did not accept this in his term. Mr President, now in all seriousness, because we are talking about a very miserable situation that has arisen and which the cabinet is charging itself with. In reply, I would like to say a few things about the apologies we have made and for which we have made them. I would also, of course, like to say something about the strategy. Then I would like to return to Mr Wilders............................................................................................................................................................................................ I shall then turn to the question of when the effects of the measures will be visible. Finally, I will address the questions that have been raised about the addition to the support package that has become known today. I'll start last Friday and last Monday. At the heart of the matter, the excuses were made because, despite the fact that all the signals were green, they were obviously not sufficiently requested and things were not sufficiently exploited, so we did not have a sufficiently clear picture of a number of risks. That's the point. Of course, there was also the fact that we and the journalists were somewhat irritated to respond to the request for reflection, but the main point is, of course, the whole underlying the error of assessment. Hugo de Jonge will discuss two aspects of this in technical terms. First of all, how did you assess the effect of behavior? We underestimated that, you might say. Secondly, the overestimate of the extent to which we would be able to mitigate a number of risks. You mentioned several elements of this in the debate. Hugo de Jonge will discuss this in more detail in technique. That's actually the core of what it's about. If you ask the question what you can learn from that, then the most important lesson is that we do not only have to weigh things in full, but also always have to ask for as long as we can until we know for sure that we know everything. Hugo de Jonge will discuss the role of behavioral scientists. Maybe I can say something about the importance of communication myself. That interest should also be absolutely clear. Of course, that is always part of the integral weighting of what we do, behavior and communication. What you see here, of course, is, on the one hand, underestimating behavior and, on the other hand, overestimating the extent to which you can reduce risks. There's really the mistake, the core of the error of judgment. That is what the cabinet is charging itself for, and that is also at the heart of the apology. We simply have to come to the conclusion that this has led to too many infections in the sum total. Fortunately so far in a limited age group. We still have to look at whether this is going to continue with other generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u190	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u191	I understand that the distribution is as follows: the Minister of Health makes the excuses and the Prime Minister comes up with some more generalities. I understand that well, but let's peel things off a little bit. Let's start dancing with Janssen, which a lot of Dutch people are very surprised about. The Prime Minister said, "Go dance with Janssen." Then you'd be a younger fool if you didn't, so no one blames the kids. Many colleagues have said that today. But everyone knows that Janssen's vaccine only works about two weeks after vaccination. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister says: if you have your saturday morning inoculations with Janssen, you can go into that discotheque at night. You say now: we should have thought longer. But this is just an absolute blunder, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u192	So here it is incredibly important for young people to be vaccinated and for a very low prevalence there to be taken a risk. You saw the number of infections going up very much. As soon as that happened, we changed the deadline again. That is how the weighting has been and it has not worked out properly, because it has contributed to the problem. Part of that weighting is that you want more young people to vaccinate and the general vaccination rate to rise significantly. I think that is at the heart of the assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u193	That's not an answer to my question. Tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of young people have heard "we can dance Saturday night with Janssen if we get shot with that vaccine Saturday morning." The Minister and the Prime Minister need to know that the vaccine will take two weeks. With the vaccines that you need to prick twice, it also takes two weeks for them to have effect. So how irresponsible is it? Again, you will not find me on your way with the opening of the Netherlands. We have advocated this as a PVV and have gone even further than you have. But you will find me on your way when you say as a cabinet "let's stick and, unlike the package leaflet of the pharmaceutical itself, you may still leave the same day." That's asking for trouble, isn't it? Apologies don't work against that. You've ruined people's lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u194	That's an exaggeration. When we did, there was a very low number of infections. It is also an incredibly important that many young people are vaccinated. Taking a risk with a very low number of infections is indeed a possibility. That's a policy choice you have to make. We know a lot of young people got a vaccine for that reason. The risk naturally increases as the prevalence increases and as the number of infections increases. That's why we intervened at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u195	My third interruption. I have nothing to apologize for if the Prime Minister doesn't know about the content. You can apologize if you want to, but if you then come up with the content with these kinds of answers, we don't shoot at that much. Let me make a second point. I will come back to that later, but I want to name it now, and that is indeed the ventilation. At the end of last year, with the amendment of the Drinking and Restaurant Act, your cabinet eased the ventilation in the catering industry. Five times you've eased the demands instead of tightening them. We're paying a huge price for that right now. For 500 days, one and a half years, you have left the important theme of ventilation in spite of every scientist in the world. You didn't do anything with that. I told you in my input that's criminal, but at least it's highly culpable. It's had huge consequences, Mr. Rutte. You may now be able to say no and say a word, but I would ask you to take this seriously. By ignoring the ventilation in the hospitality, in people's homes, but also in schools, by being laughing about us, or about scientists or about Maurice de Hondt or anyone else and not taking it seriously, we have now got super spreading events. We wouldn't have gotten it if it had been ventilated properly. Of course, people were infected at all these festivals, but I assure you that might have been a third if those spaces had been properly ventilated. I am appalled that you are laughing at this every time and that you do not take it seriously. Apologies would be appropriate for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u196	Let me turn to the previous point. I'm not saying that dancing with Janssen went well. Of course, that didn't go well. I am not saying afterwards that this strategy has been brilliant, but I am saying that the prevalence and number of infections have increased and we have taken measures. I'm sketching the parts of what we've done. In the sum sum and how we weighed the elements, you can see that touches the core of the apology that it just went wrong. That's clear. Now, let me take a look at the ventilation, but then I'll do all the questions about the ventilation first, Mr. President. I think that Mr Wilders is going too short there, because that is simply not true. I have always said here, including in debates, that we also consider ventilation important. If you look at how that works, you can see that the RIVM website, the RIVM government.nl, always pays attention to ventilation in all possible ways. For schools and hospitals there are all separate programs. I will reply further later on in the deadline how we deal with it. There is a big difference between ventilation on the one hand and on the other hand the problem of washing your hands, keeping your distance and testing in case of complaints. That is the question of how to translate the issue of ventilation back and make it manageable for the press conferences to see how individuals can act you, I, all of us can act on that point. We have discussed this in greater depth, also inspired by the discussion we are having today. I think I'll go into it so much more closely that it's possible to add a fourth element, so beside hand washing, keep your distance, let yourself test for complaints and stay at home. But then it is not ventilation, because ventilation requires technical intervention in many cases. Then it's in the core: get some fresh air. We're working out exactly how you do that. A little bit towards Mr Wilders: we will definitely continue to work on this. We'll add that to the sign at the press conference, as a fourth icon. He's just got a point there. But it is not true that we have not talked about this at the level of schools, hospitals and in the general attention we give to ventilation on all websites and in all government communications. I never laughed it off. I've always said Maurice the Dog has a point here. The whole discussion about aerosols is widely recognised. The essence of the issue is: can you add that at the level of individual behavioral advice? That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u197	Let me start by saying that I'm glad you're going to do that, that you're going to add that. That's today's profits. I do not agree with you on this point. I have mentioned examples of legislation and other debates that you did not do exactly the opposite with the Drinking and Catering Act, by falling back on a building decision of ten or twenty years ago. You did not say anything about this in press conferences. Not a word spent on it! I have once asked Minister De Jonge: will you refer to this subject at a press conference next time? He promised, but he didn't, not because of him, not because of you. Anyway, it's a profit that you're doing that now, albeit far too late. I would like to ask you one more thing. Friend and enemy as well as scientists, on whom we both sail for a large part, say that, for example, the 1.5 meter doesn't make much sense if you don't manage the ventilation properly. This is literally stated in the letter sent by twenty professors who also advocate it. I would like to ask you: do you want to make ventilation and the spread of the virus with aerosols a top priority and not just number four? Thank you, but do you want to make that a top priority and ensure that people at home receive advice on how to air and ventilate their homes, as well as in schools, restaurants and festivals? Would you please make that a top priority? 'Cause I think that's one of the biggest and most important ways of spreading the virus right now, especially in inner spaces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u198	Just one thing. Once again, Mr Wilders gives the impression that ventilation in our communication does not pay attention. Perhaps not always in the press conferences, because they focus on the question of what we can all do individually. If you're talking about ventilation, before you know it, people are gonna put down fans and the virus is gonna spread worse. That requires very specific technical intervention. You have to leave that to schools, hospitals or discotheques, if you ever wanted the nightclubs open again. Here you're talking about how to make sure there's plenty of fresh air, air change. Then you bring it to the level of the individual and to what he or she can do. I told you, I'm not gonna read all that. We intend to add that in communication, parallel to the other three main recommendations, washing hands, keeping away, testing complaints and staying at home, including the perspective of action. It is then very practical instructions what you can do to ensure that this ventilation takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u199	Thank you. There are a number of follow-up questions. First of all, Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks, then Mrs Kicken of the PvdA, Mr Paternotte of D66 and Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals. First Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to dwell a little longer on the excuses and, above all, on what they mean. Of course you can apologize and then you can continue with the delusion of the day. Or they have meaning. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what has been said, but also what is now being done differently. For example, is there going to be better listening to behavioral scientists who have given all kinds of advice and have felt far too little in recent weeks, and of course that is not wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u201	To take away a misunderstanding: it is not the case that we all make decisions here without the advice of behavioral scientists and communication experts all being part of the decision-making process. That's right. For example, RIVM's behavioral unit has given very precise advice on how to handle the 1.5 meter, what is needed in the field of communication and a number of other aspects. So we'll take it with us. What you just need to establish is that something went wrong in the sum total. We're not gonna point to anyone. There is no point in that at all. We're just pointing to ourselves. You can say that some advisors advise sister or something, but in the end we are responsible. If something goes wrong, it's our job to ask us how it could have gone wrong. Then there's no other way than that sum of "can you control things?" in combination with "what is the effect on the individual behaviour of people?', After all, we have made a completely wrong assessment. Then the conclusion may be, as Mrs Westerveld says, that we ignored the behavioral scientists. That's not true. But even though you have all that input, it is the duty of the Cabinet to do everything in its power to ensure that you have all the information on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u202	I understand. I also understand that different experts are giving different advice and that it is ultimately up to the cabinet to take a number of things and perhaps not some other things. But of course that has gone wrong here on a number of points. Then my question is what is learned from that. What else is being done in the future in the decision-making process? Let me give you an example: dancing with Janssen. Mr Wilders was just asking about it. Obviously, that didn't go well. Obviously, information has been given, which experts, such as health scientists, say is simply not true what the cabinet has radiated, namely that you can get a shot and be in a discotheque the same night or the night after. There have indeed been a number of cases communicated from the cabinet, which have not been recommended and which scientists even say we should not have done so. So my question is what is going to be done differently in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u203	That's what I'm sketching. By the way, I have responded to dancing with Janssen in the direction of Mr Wilders. At some point we decided to merge steps 4 and 5 into step 4. There was advice underneath that this could be done. The discussion was not at all about whether it was too heavy. The discussion was about whether you should also let go of the 1.5 meters. There was a very clear opinion from the RIVM and the OMT: you should not do that; you should maintain that 1.5 meters. That is why we have said that we will review this measure on 13 August. So the discussion was not about whether it was too much, but the discussion was about whether we are doing enough. That's the bizarre situation. The recommendations of the OMT, the behavioral unit and all others have all been incorporated into the decision. It's not like we've decided quite floatingly to do it like this, while ignoring all the advice. The sum total, plus the fact that in the modeling it is not possible to get back to what happens when and behavior turns out to be very different than you expected, and the sum is too much, made sure that those superspread events occurred and the numbers could suddenly rise hugely. We didn't know that. What could we have done to prevent this? So what do you learn from this? That's that if you're going to take such a big step, you're going to have to take a lot more time to drill it out, maybe ask for another counterexpertise and talk it through again and then see if that step is wise. That's actually the most important lesson. So how do you avoid that misjudgement? That is, in the end, that at that time you must ensure that you rule out any doubt as much as possible. So it's not like we ignored all the advice. I say one thing: it's not without risks, because even then you can still come across surprises. We want to do everything we can to reduce these surprises as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u204	I hear the Prime Minister now saying that the discussion was not whether we did enough, but whether we could do more. In my opinion, that was not the discussion at all. I think that shows that the discussion is also being made and that your image is determined by the question of who you are listening to. I outlined my work visit to Canisius Wilhelmina Hospital in the debate I spoke to a doctor-microbiologist. He just predicted what was coming. My question is therefore whether the cabinet will be better informed in the coming weeks by people who do not see everything with pink glasses, but who also point out the risks, because they are also everywhere. That's the kind of opinion you see everywhere, but I haven't seen it in the cabinet decisions in the last few weeks. I understand that the cabinet has to weigh everything, but that side of the story of those critical people I have seen less in the cabinet decisions. I think we can see that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u205	Of course, I also read all the responses. I don't watch and follow all the talk programs, but we get the reports from what's being said there. That is all relevant, because they are people with often double titles, who think about it well. So that's what you have to include in your policy. But at the heart of the matter, of course, we are trying to follow the advice of the weighted average. Where does that weighted average come into being? This is in the combination of the Outbreak Management Team, which includes all the experts we see in the media, sometimes in parallel with the communication advice and advice of the RIVM Behavioural Unit. They are all weighted: the cross-cutting key of the Segers motion. It also looks at the socio-economic and social impact of all the decisions you make. All this is put on a sieve and on that basis decision-making takes place. Then things are going very wrong here. But if I pointed one finger at another, there would be three fingers pointing at myself. The question then is: what is the reflection on that? Mrs Westerveld and others have rightly said so. We have made a significant decision to merge step 4 and step 5 and when you see how much we released: back to 1.5 meters plus placement and mouth caps only where you can't keep 1.5 meters away. That was at the heart of the decision-making process on 18 June on 26 June. So you need to ask through more questions, maybe organize the opponents, et cetera. That's the lesson me and Hugo de Jonge draw from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u206	Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA. But there's a little cleaning first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u207	Unfortunately, I have to say that the mirror of reflection at the start of this debate is already somewhat haunted. The cabinet simply has to acknowledge that I also hope that the Prime Minister will do so and that a deliberate risk has been taken at the time of the relaxation. The Prime Minister says: we should have questioned more about the risks, but there were deliberately ignored risks and advice. Let me mention a few. The OMT didn't say: go after 40 hours of testing, but after 24 hours. The OMT did not explicitly advise to release a QR test immediately after pricking. The OMT didn't say, "Don't go back to work." In short, I would like to know from the Prime Minister that they have deliberately turned a blind eye to a number of expert opinions. My question is very simple: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u208	We have never taken advice from experts literally. But the weighted average of the OMT opinion that was there almost literally said: we have no objection to the step taken here as of 18 June and 26 June. That advice was there. Mrs Kuik is then right on a number of specific points. But that is also part of the cabinet's task, and we have that to consider here as well: that you can certainly make other choices on parts as well. She is absolutely right about that. I'm here to talk about homework advice and ventilation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u209	Not just that. The OMT said: if you are already relaxing, then the measures you are taking must be strictly respected when it comes to testing for access, when it comes to basic measures, and when it comes to communication. On these points, too, the cabinet has failed. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u210	I just don't agree with that. It has turned out completely wrong in that sense, but it's not like the OMT said what we had to say and we didn't. But what you see, and that's exactly what I just said, is that there's been an error of assessment. On June 18th we let go much at the same time as June 26th. The behavior of a lot of people is that they hear we're almost there, but not that we're not quite there yet. This compromised the 1.5 meters. That's what actually happened. That's what I'm charging myself for. That didn't go well in communication. But there was no communication advice that we didn't follow and that we took a risk. The advisors said about the sum of what we did on June 18th: we can wear that. On a number of parts, specifically dancing with Jansen, Mrs. Kuik is right. That's different from the advice we've been given. But under the general step we took on 18 June per 26 June was simply a positive opinion. Then it goes wrong. That is our fault and not the consultant's fault, and that is what I am saying. This has to do with the miscalculation of the sum of all these behaviors and the overestimate of how much you can reduce the risks, for example if you use such a QR code not only at festivals, as it had previously been tested in a laboratory environment and in field labs, but also in the wet catering industry, so the cafés and the nighthoreca.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u211	In short, one did not have sufficient attention to behavior, there was too fast switching and there were conscious risks taken. I hear all the things we said to each other a year ago. Then we also said, "We have to learn from behavior. We shouldn't overestimate it. We need to be sure." How can we have this discussion again in the summer of 2021? My sincere question is: have we learned from this or am I listening to a story for the stage? Can I really expect us to be able to assess that behavior and the risks in the next steps or relaxations? Based on what can I trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u212	The second. That's what I'm telling you. Mrs. Kicken has to decide if she trusts me, but it's the second. So the answer to Mrs Kuik's question is the second part of her question. That's the way it is. She's asking if she trusts it. It's not prettier, but it's the second. So I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u213	I think we should be careful to say that we have misjudged young people's behaviour. Let's be, with "dancing with Janssen," "it's gonna be a nice summer" and "we can party again" is of course the message that it's all allowed again. Then you can also expect people to behave accordingly. On the other hand, we were just talking about ventilation. The Prime Minister says we have followed the scientific advice. But in the field labs, for example, RIVM now writes: "There was a very clear advice from the field labs on the ventilation of tents. The government has not taken that advice." This happened in addition to not taking up the advice on the time limit for testing and the time limit for the use of the Janssen vaccine. Other countries in Europe have also opened up things, but have done so under other conditions. In Denmark, Belgium and Germany the discos are not open, but in Germany for example you can dance outside. I see now that there have been 10,500 infections in the Netherlands in the last 24 hours. In Germany these were 1,500, while it is a much larger country. In Belgium, there were only 800 infections. It's almost as if the virus stops at the border. My question to the Prime Minister is: are we aware that it is fine that we are out of step in Europe? What else is his explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u214	I just gave that statement. It's a sum. We have to charge ourselves for that as a cabinet. We have totally underestimated the collective effect of communication touching "the weather." That's our fault. That's not young people's fault, but that's our fault. Two. We have overestimated the extent to which you are able to mitigate, mitigate the risks. That's where the mistake is. You can only fix that error by making it even more precise next time... If it's really a big step, we're gonna ask for another counter-expertise, et cetera. That is what I said to Mrs Kuik in reply to her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u215	Then I have the next question. The Prime Minister just pointed out that we found out that the number of infections was increasing and then we changed it about Janssen. That was two weeks later, so after there had been two weekends with lots of superspread events. We have now also received extensive figures from the RIVM. The OMT said two weeks ago: now that we see these developments quickly, you should actually go to a weekly cycle, a weekly advice. Will the Prime Minister ensure that the OMT will also review all the new figures and the latest developments this week and issue a new opinion, and that we do not think: we are going to wait another week to see how things are going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u216	A very precise answer is: that is not our concern, that is what the OMT is about. The reassuring answer is that the OMT has informed us that it will monitor the figures very precisely on a weekly basis and will provide advice to the cabinet if this is necessary. In the coming weeks, we will be holding consultations with the most concerned ministers on Mondays anyway. Should the OMT do more than analyse, but also come up with additional advice, we can immediately convert it into decision-making on Monday. I am actually trying to meet Mr Paternotte by holding the OMT in position. We can't make demands on the OMT. The OMT has informed us that it is doing what Mr Paternotte and we think is right. The OMT therefore provides an analysis of the situation every week and, if necessary, advice on what is further needed. I thought he wanted to, but if he wants more, I need to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u217	Last week, the Chamber said in broad terms: we believe that an urgent opinion is needed. In the end, that was asked by the cabinet. That's why the OMT got back together. The Prime Minister can say 'we don't have to', but it is of course important to ask OMT for weekly advice. In fact, we said ourselves: make a weekly cycle and do not make sure that we think in a week "we should have." That goes to my wider point, before I'm through all my interruptions. It is good to make the analysis and to say at the press conference that we are going to add an icon, but in the end you want to know what we are going to do and what we can learn from neighbouring countries. I look at Belgium, where CO2 meters are hung everywhere in the catering industry. In Germany they have said: dancing is possible, but we do so in the outdoors. Apart from "it's being incorporated into the message," the Prime Minister says: technical adjustments are needed. So what are we going to do concretely to make sure...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u218	I thought I met Mr Paternotte completely. We're gonna do what he asks. I'm just saying we can't demand it from the OMT. The position is that the OMT itself has said to do so. So what else does he want? I don't understand. I'm sorry, but I'm explaining it three times now. The OMT has informed us that it meets weekly, that it makes a weekly analysis of the figures and that it will not hesitate if it thinks that additional advice is needed. The OMT is doing this in such a rhythm that we have been able to decide our weekly consultations on Monday, so that there is no delay. If the government thinks on the basis of the figures itself "the OMT may or may not see it, but we want advice on this at any rate," we will, of course, ask for it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u219	I will give Mr Paternotte a chance to see if you understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u220	I think it's new that the Prime Minister says the OMT is meeting weekly. That was my question: is it coming together this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u221	I've told you that three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u222	"It comes together weekly. So that's what's gonna happen." That is what I really wanted to hear, but the Prime Minister didn't say that just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u223	I would like to ask the Prime Minister to let everyone speak, because otherwise it is difficult to follow, even for the people...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u224	I'm sorry, but I was so glad to meet Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u225	It is a good result in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u226	Let's see if the Prime Minister can meet me this afternoon. I don't think the answer to "dancing with Janssen" is enough. I notice this, for example, from the following fact. I'm just quoting the ministry of VWS: "After vaccination, you're so well protected that we think it's justified to let you go in. We don't think we need to wait for the last part of protection." That has been the communication of the U.S. Department about this. Lawyers now state that Article 22 of the Constitution has been abandoned. I wonder if you would agree with these lawyers that it is forsaken in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u227	No, I disagree. Furthermore, this is a legal issue, which may need to be discussed in courtrooms, if people want something to do so. We can't discuss that with each other here. But I don't agree with that. The first part is correct against the background of the very low numbers of infections when that happened and the great importance that young people would be vaccinated on a much larger scale. That's what happened in itself. That's the good news. The bad news is that, given the number of infections, given the context, we have had to change not only because of that, but also because of the sum total of all the things I mentioned. That also affects the apology and the error of judgment I have just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u228	I am curious to see what this Prime Minister is saying to the people who have started dancing with a Janssen vaccination, now that they may have long covid, are ill for a long time and have followed what this government has actively communicated about what can be done. These people may be ill for a long time now and may stay ill. We don't know what the consequences are yet. I am curious, because these lawyers too, I think they are right in trying to do so against the fact that this would be really legally incorrect. I would like to know what you are going to say to the group of people who may continue to complain for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u229	Then I'll say that I'm incredibly sorry when people have long covid or get sick at all, that the board in the Netherlands must constantly weigh up in an extremely complex pandemic and that there are no black and white answers. We have made an assessment of the great importance of a higher vaccination rate against the background of the very low number of infections. When the number of infections went up, we changed that, too. If that had got people into trouble, we would be very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u230	Thank you. There are a number of follow-up questions. First of all, Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Then Mrs Simons van BET1, Mrs Van den Berg van de CDA, Mr Hijink van de SP and Mrs Bikker van de ChristenUnion. But first, Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u231	I also want to know from the Prime Minister why we are now sending back for positive PCR tests. Last week a splendid motion by Mr Kuzu and myself was adopted. The whole Chamber, at least a majority, has said: do not do that; go steer on bed occupancy. Why didn't we? After all, a lot has changed since last summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u232	The strategy has not changed. There were also questions, from Mrs Simons and others, about changing the strategy. We're not gonna do that. The strategy is to send: protect the care, protect the vulnerable and keep an eye on the spread of the virus. The fact is that with these very high numbers of infections there is a risk that care will also be subject to additional burden. Those are the expectations now. According to the first calculations it is between 150 and 600 occupied ic-beds, minimum and maximum. Those are very cautious initial assessments. So we will continue to focus on these three indicators. That doesn't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u233	That's true, but the only thing we're seeing changing right now is the number of positive PCR tests. Of course, we have crossed swords about those PCR tests before, mostly with Mr De Jonge, but I'd rather not do that now. Anyway, with that PCR test, of course, things are going on. With low prevalence, you can see that there are a lot of false positives. Moreover, many people who are now being tested positively, for example in the home situation, are no longer going to a test street. The percentage of positive PCR tests is therefore also increasing. So we can let go of that gold standard. There's really something else going on. If you send it the same way now, you say nothing has changed on those positive PCR tests, then you're actually judging something in a very different way. I think that's wrong, because you can't report it or say with certainty that this will translate into more hospitalization or more ic occupation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u234	We can't report anything with certainty. But we do know that if one in 50 young people is contagious, there is a risk that it will still travel through the generations, which will also infect parents who, especially when they are under 60, have not all had the second shot, and also older people, who have not all been vaccinated. There is therefore a significant risk of increasing hospitalisations, of course in a very different ratio than we saw for the vaccination programme. But still the assumption of all the experts is that we will unfortunately face an increase in the pressure on care. Fortunately not to the extent we have seen before, but an increase in the pressure on care. We want to prevent that and keep an eye on the virus at the same time. The OMT said: because of the very high number of infections it is complicated for us to keep an eye on the precise spread of the virus, also because our models do not provide sufficient insight into what happens at meetings where hundreds, sometimes a thousand people get infected; our models cannot take that with them. We have said that this affects two of the three objectives of the policy, namely to protect the care itself and to ensure that you keep an eye on the spread of the virus, so we need to intervene now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u235	Yeah, but that group of people who haven't been vaccinated, or that group of vulnerable people who can't vaccinate, must be immeasurably small now. At least it's a lot smaller than last year. That triangle, where you start with the number of positive PCR tests, as far as that says, translated into a different percentage last year and a different amount of people who ended up in the hospital and into another amount of people who ended up on an ic. We don't see any effect in the hospitals right now. So I'm wondering, is there anything else in there? Do you know, for example, the percentage of people who have a positive PCR test and who have already been vaccinated, for example? I don't have those numbers and I can't find them anywhere. But it has to be that the triangle that led to an overload of care last year is probably not going to lead to anything at all? I wonder if that's how it's gonna be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u236	Yes, of course, those proportions will be different. In England you can see that even on a low number the number of hospitalizations has doubled. It will also rise in the Netherlands. You've seen it happen the last few days. The fact that it has not yet happened is because these extensions are on 26 June. Before you actually see that in the hospital records, it's the end of the week, beginning next week. You can see in England that country is ahead of us on this point, unfortunately even a doubling of those figures, fortunately still at a low level. But it's about protecting care and keeping an eye on how the virus develops; that's two of our three goals. Protecting the vulnerable is less necessary at the present time, because most of the vulnerable have been vaccinated in the vast majority of cases. In fact, 5%, I think, of the people who have fallen may still be sick. Is that right, Hugo? So it is not the case that people who are vulnerable and vaccinated are not at risk. They still run the risk of breaking the virus through the vaccine in about 5%, 6% of cases. So our goal is not to achieve group immunity. That's what I just said to Mrs. Simons. That has never been a policy objective, and it will never be, at least not because of the number of infections, of course because of the vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u237	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u238	I would venture to doubt the last remark made by the outgoing Prime Minister. Regular reference has been made to the very first press conference during this pandemic, in which he spoke, at a time when the presence of vaccines was not yet at all, that group immunity was desirable. So I can attach as much value to that remark as to the apology. I have some questions. One of these is a follow-up to the Prime Minister's response to Mrs Westerveld in relation to the widespread relaxation. My question is: why did you have to do that? What was the motivation for this outgoing cabinet to say "there can be so much, but we still want more"? Why did you have to do that at all costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u239	First of all, Mrs Simons' first point. The target has never been group immunity. The effect of the spread of the virus among the population is that immunity is being built up. That's not a target. That's how the speech was in March. We've talked about that a lot. The goal of policy is: protect the care, protect the vulnerable, and keep us in sight of the spread of the virus. Two: the effects of the measures to combat corona, the effects of a lockdown, to whatever extent, on our young people, on our economy, on social well-being in this country, is enormous. So you have to have very good arguments to maintain restrictive measures. The figures as we had on 18 June, for the enlargement on 26 June... so the experts said. I'm not hiding behind that, it's our decision in the end, but everyone said, "You can do this. You can merge steps 4 and 5. You can, given the very low number of infections that we see now and the fact that the decline will continue, do this extension." Then it's weird not to. That was our assessment at the time. Where the mistake has been made, I have just said that in the sum of a number of measures to reduce risk, I think we have been too optimistic. You just have to establish that. At the same time, we have not properly assessed what would be the effect of behavior in the sum total of all enlargements. These are, I think, the two most important reasons why the figures have finally risen so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u240	I don't know if this is an answer to my question, because it's clear that if the opinions are that you can merge 4 and 5, then you decide to add 6 and 7,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u241	No, we didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u242	If you decide to relax more than is advised, then there must be a huge pressing, pressing reason for that. It can't be that you're suddenly making the same people that you took into account in your considerations the same one-and-a-half. But still, responding to this answer: protect the care, protect the care and protect the vulnerable. It is not clear to me how the policy pursued so far, and not with the most recent relaxations, has made the importance of care a priority, because care has been and continues to suffer for the last year and a half. And the concern consists of people, people at the bed, people who also have to comply with the corona measures and are dependent on the decisions this cabinet makes. So if you say "protect the care, protect the vulnerable," but there's been a group of people inside for a year and a half... "Vulnerable," I say in quotes, because that's not how they see themselves at all. "Vulnerable" due to the lack of policy and lack of attention for them. Then who are we talking about? What is the most important thing that must be protected at all costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u243	I don't understand this question. The health care system is severely affected by corona. Hard hit; that's what we see all over the world. If someone chokes to death and goes to the hospital, he always goes first. It's in the same category as a car accident, a heart attack; it always comes first. So that has two effects. One effect is that a planned operation, knee surgery or other major surgery, if capacity falls too much, should be postponed. That's very bad for the people who hit it. It has enormous consequences for the people who work in care, who have to work the snot in front of their eyes to manage things under very difficult conditions, with overcrowded intensive care departments. Mrs Simons is absolutely right about that. So why do you take all the measures in the atmosphere of lockdowns? To make sure you get those numbers down. That's your goal: protect the care, protect the care. At the same time, you want to do everything you can to protect the elderly and those with vulnerable health. That is one of the reasons why we took the draconian measure last March to ask the nursing homes to close. At that time we did not know enough about how to minimise the risks there and many people have become seriously ill or died. That's why you do that. I'm just trying to figure out what we don't agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u244	I would like to clarify that, because I do not think my question was properly understood. I can understand that, because he was a little tedious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u245	Well, no, not that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u246	That's my own judgment. You say 'protect the care', but that has not happened in the last year and a half, because care has been under enormous pressure. People have indeed worked the snot in front of their eyes, even though that is not my favorite expression. They are now at home with a burn-out, they are tired and they are also affected by these last relaxations, not only professionally but also personally. Because they also thought on the advice of the minister in charge: I got poked, so I can go for a weekend. My question is, how do you feel about it? You say that we have done everything we can to protect care and the vulnerable. The Prime Minister may be talking about the elderly, but I'm talking about people who've been inside for a year and a half because it's not safe outside. While there was a delta variant coming at us, there were relaxations that everyone was wondering: why must they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u247	However, let's talk about the health care situation. It's not Mrs Simons, Mark Rutte, or anyone who brought that virus here. As a country and as a world, we are faced with a very serious pandemic, which is giving a huge blow to health care systems in all the countries where the pandemic is raging. The only way to combat this is by taking measures to keep people away from each other, so that the pandemic can be controlled as much as possible and the pressure on care is reduced. Let me finish, Mr. Chairman. That's what we did. You're just taking measures to protect the care as much as possible. Of course, it is not the case that we have invented: we are bringing that virus here to smack the care. Then you could have blamed me. That virus came and then we had to react as a society to it. How do you respond to that? Unfortunately by social distancing, by keeping 1.5 meters away, including far-reaching measures, for example closing our shops, our catering and so on, so that the pressure decreases again. That's what you do. That way, you're trying to make room for scheduled operations again. Then part two of your question. We have taken these steps on the basis of the advice that was given. The advice said: we see no objection to this. Nevertheless, that is what I count on and not the advisors, you see in the sum of the behavior and the extent to which we tried to limit the risks that things were really misjudged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u248	Thank you. I would ask the Prime Minister to use Dutch terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u249	Otherwise Mrs Van der Plas will come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u250	I hope this is my last one, Mr. Chairman. That delta variant was already there at the time those relaxations were decided. If you set 1.5 meters as a measure to protect everyone as much as possible, it is at least remarkable that everyone... I'm assuming I'm proud to say that I'm the least educated person in this Chamber, but I could even see that things would get out of hand. How does that exist? I can't understand that. Everyone saw this coming. How is it that at that very moment you let go of that 1.5 meters and encourage the whole country to start partying with each other, especially with all of them, sweating? I just can't understand that. That's what I'm looking for. What's anyone gonna do to decide that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u251	The decision-making on 18 June on what would take place on 26 June was, of course, related to the assessment we made of the delta variant. Indeed, this spread has gone much faster than we thought we could read from the modeling at that time. But of course the delta variant is involved in the decision-making on 18 June. That is also what we see in all European countries. More or less flexibility has been decided in all European countries. We are wider than in other countries, but other countries have done so, also against the backdrop of a spreading delta variant. Why do you do that? At some point, given the developments in the fight against the virus, you make an assessment of whether it is possible to alleviate some major limitations in our society. That is very important, because we also see, of course, the effects on young people who cannot go to school or who cannot lead normal social life and on elderly people who unite. We should not underestimate the enormous social effects of the lockdown, not only economically but also socially psychologically. You try each time to see what the moments are when it is possible to allow enlargements again. In the sum of the package that went into effect on 26 June, I have now outlined this a few times, and we have also put it on paper. We have come to the conclusion that a number of errors of assessment have indeed been made, and we have apologized for that. This applies both to behaviour and to the question of what the accumulation does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u252	It wasn't the last one. Those excuses for misjudging other people's behavior, as I have already said, seem very strange to me. Because if you say 'I apologize for misjudging the behaviour of young people', then you say that the problems we are facing now are due to the behaviour of young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u253	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u254	I can't interpret it any other way; I'm very sorry about that. I believe that apologies consist of three genuine parts. The first is making excuses, so say sorry for the behavior. Then you have to change your behavior. A number of colleagues here have asked: how are you going to do that? I'm still very curious about that, too. But that also means taking total responsibility for what goes wrong, and not saying: I take responsibility for my piece, but the rest you have done. So that's what's still bothering me a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u255	That's a real misunderstanding, you know. I'm not blaming anyone but ourselves. In the end, we have made an assessment of what will happen if people could not go out for so long, for example to a nightclub, and as a cabinet you say "it is possible now" and "we are almost there, but not quite yet." We should have assessed that much better. That's just our fault, not the kids'. We should have better assessed the effect on young people who think: okay, we can do it again. You saw that it massively unleashed that five feet. I'm not blaming the kids for that. It's because mistakes have been made in communication. That's what the apology's about. So it's not a shared responsibility. I really put that responsibility on ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u256	Thank you. First Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA, then Mr Hijink, then Mrs Bikker and then Mrs Van der Plas. But first of all, Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u257	I'd like to return to the PM's office for a moment on the part of ventilation. I am very pleased that attention is being paid at least to 'fresh air', but that is a very general term. For a year now, the CDA has been advocating the need to look at technological innovations and to provide practical guidance on how to get that fresh air in a practical way, so that we do not get the situation we saw in October, namely that the window is opened in schools because the renovation has not yet been completed. We know that Minister Van Ark, including companies, had a round table meeting. So do we, as residents, get some more technological advice on what to use to achieve this, rather than just opening the window in winter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u258	Three things, very briefly. One. If we add a fourth icon to the cathedral at the press conference, it should be about fresh air. Because in ventilation, you have to invest in all kinds of stuff, when it comes to what you can practically do. We are going to develop very practical handles for that. I can name them now, but then the NIS will hear them and send them out. Maybe we'll put them even better on paper, so I don't really want to mention them yet. I have lyrics here, but they're not finished yet. But we are going to give that very precise, good and just very practical content, at the level that everyone thinks: okay, I can do something with that. The second is the technique of ventilation and the advice on it. I was just having a discussion about that with Mr Wilders. We have not all ignored that, but he blames us for not paying enough attention. That could be true. I think we've tried to do so in every possible way. On the website of the RIVM and through other communication from the government we explained what you can do. I'll get to the third. Ventilation is particularly natural in schools and hospitals, because it is a very big point there. Questions have also been asked about this, including by Mrs Van den Berg. For this, schools are working very hard to spend the 100 million. The 260 million she mentioned, which I think the VVD and GroenLinks mentioned, is reserved for 2022 and 2023. That amount is also for a lot of other things. There appears to be some kind of overrun in the 2021 budget. That is what the various Members of Parliament who asked for attention are right. What we're looking at right now is how you can solve that overrun. You're gonna get that out of the 260 million? You're gonna pull a piece out of that? Or are you doing something else? That's what we're still figuring out. It is, of course, very important that, if the schools need more than 100 million, we see if we can move in a little bit flexible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u259	That is good to hear, and I think the latter is also an answer to Mrs Westerveld, who has also argued in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u260	Yeah, he asked that question, too. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u261	Honor to all who deserve credit. But I'm also concerned about the following. We are swamped, and I am sure we are, not only by other colleagues, by companies saying that we can offer a practical solution with devices. I also see nothing of that in the communication of the RIVM. It is not a question of advertising certain companies, but it is a question of bringing technology to the fore in itself. For example, I once visited a company that exported to Germany, but was always told in the Netherlands: none of this is necessary. Last year it was even said: HEPA filters may be too expensive. But when entrepreneurs in the hospitality industry say it would be the solution for them, can that technological side be taken into account in communication?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u262	Yes. That's what I'm telling you. I'm not an expert on this, so I can only promise now that we're gonna figure out how to do it right. Perhaps I can deal with it procedurally and perhaps also in terms of content in a subsequent progress letter. By the way, I think that with this interruption I have answered all the questions about ventilation. Well, that'll save you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u263	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP. I would ask Members to make the interruptions a little more compact. And that is not the fault of Mr Hijink, whom I see now; I say this in a general sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u264	I was going to say, Mr President, I haven't even started! It is still unclear to me what exactly the Prime Minister has apologized for. Is that communication, misjudging behavior or misreading advice? It's completely unclear to me. The real problem, and that's what the Prime Minister is going through, is that when testing for access at the wrong time, the cabinet put in a wrong system at the wrong locations. Can the Prime Minister go into that? That delta variant already went around like a madman in England and India itself, and was already present in the Netherlands. We already knew there was one. We also knew that there was a system of access testing that was leaking on all sides, and yet the cabinet decided to use it to release all the brakes. There, of course, is the real mistake that has been made. Does the Prime Minister agree? And shouldn't the apology be about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u265	No, not the last one. I think the apology is really broader. It also affects the assessment we have made of the behavior plus the sum of the extent to which you are able to reduce the risks, even in parts where you try to create space again. I have actually answered this earlier in a previous interruption. In our view, the field labs took place in a somewhat controlled environment. That was of course brought to practice, also to a practice in which it happened much more than in the field labs also went to the restaurants and nightclubs and so not only to events. At this point, I think you should just learn that things went wrong there, not so much at the events, the big meetings there too, perhaps, but above all in nightlife. Hugo de Jonge will go into that in a moment, because that is what we agreed on in the division of roles. But that's the main line of our response when it comes to the QR code. That's not the head xcuus. It is, but then I would narrow it too much to one aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u266	I'd like the Prime Minister to take it. For my group, the SP, this is precisely the most important point and the main cause why we are where we are now. Today, again, there are over 10,000 new infections. That's because of the system we have. The SP and other parties were against it; a small majority were in this Chamber before that. It could be through the system of testing for access with private parties doing the commercial tests, with a GGD that had nothing to do with it, with poor enforcement and with a high risk of fraud, whether that's the fault of the young people who did it or of someone else. The system made that possible. I believe that the Prime Minister should also take note of the fact that the real mistakes that have been made are in that system, which has caused the number of infections to increase so rapidly in those few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u267	The lessons that can be drawn from this are also my lessons. Those are our lessons. We only have a division of roles. I just outlined that when testing for access things didn't go well. I have just mentioned a number of key points on which I see that. But it really is the agreement that Hugo de Jonge answers the questions about detailing. He prepared it. We split up. Of course, the chairman doesn't want an hour and a half break either, so I prepared my piece and he's his piece. If he wants me to go into that in more detail, he will have to do so in the second term. But then I will probably repeat what he is going to say in the first term. I'm sorry, but that's a bit of the division of roles. I agree with what he is about to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u268	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u269	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the first reflection and the urgency that comes out of the cabinet to follow this very closely and follow up. The minister has promised to do that scaling again weekly from the OMT. The opinions made very clear: give an explanation of the figures of GGD and RIVM together. I would ask the Prime Minister to send it to the Chamber as well. But I would also like a little more reflection on what was very clear in the OMT opinion of 5 July, namely that we have set up an earlywarning system, so that we can follow the delta variant very closely. We sit here together and think: how did that system work, how did it ensure good reflection? Well, too little, otherwise we wouldn't be here. I would therefore like to hear more about how the cabinet looks back on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u270	I'm gonna ask Mr. De Jonge to do that, because I don't have enough ice under my feet to go freestyling right now. But we'll get back to that in a minute. I have already said that the OMT will review the figures weekly and, if necessary, advise them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u271	Well, Mr. President, I'm sure that interruption will be in the fridge and it won't count for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u272	Doesn't count now...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u273	Even the Prime Minister agrees, but the President is on it. So I'm curious. The second point the Prime Minister was very clear about was fresh air. I fully agree with that, which is very important. But he's keeping what he's going to advise about that a little bit to himself. He is free to do so, but I want to speed it up, so that all Dutch people hear from the cabinet as soon as possible: open the windows. That can be very good with this weather. You can make sure before autumn, before it starts to rain, that all the other adjustments that are very important are also happening and in acceleration. An example of this is Mrs van den Berg's motion, which has been waiting a year for a vigorous approach. But please, today's advice might as well be toss those windows open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u274	Yeah, that's basically what it's all about. Agreed. Fresh air is important. Make sure that there is regular airing at home, in shops, at school and at work. That's the main line I'm reading here. Only here, if we want to learn lessons, I really want the behavioral experts and communication experts to look very closely at the text I have been given here. It also says that it means that we will convey a message that we are fine tuned with all the experts. That is why I do not want to read that message now, but the essence of it is exactly what Mrs Bikker says, namely: open the windows.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u275	So I asked when it would come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u276	I'll check it out. But I'm guessing that'll be Monday already. We're back in the press on Monday, so we're gonna do that Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u277	Thank you. Then Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u278	I would like to make a point of order. I notice that a lot of questions are not answered, but Members of Parliament have lost their interruptions. I would actually ask the President not to count it as an interruption if the Prime Minister or the Ministers do not answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u279	I've barely started answering the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u280	I'm going to say something very simple. I hope the other side's listening. I understand what you're saying. I do think it is right that there should be a more direct response from the rulers. I can therefore support your request, but I would ask the Members of Parliament to intervene briefly and forcefully. If we can make that appointment, I'm gonna send a little more on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u281	Then I have a question. If I'm correct, there are now 74 ICU beds occupied by covid patients. In April there were 400 beds occupied and that was the ideal time to relax. The vaccinations make people less ill. Young people are now vaccinating. I was curious to see how far the cabinet is willing to go to withdraw everything. For although the number of infections is increasing, I admit that, in terms of care capacity, we are actually lower than ever in a positive sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u282	The problem is the delay. You can't say at the moment whether those huge numbers of infections among young people will have an impact on care. All the experts say that this impact is coming. We are already seeing a cautious rise, but you can't see it until the weekend, or at the beginning of next week. There is a delay: people feel bad and get tested, stay at home for a while, and if things get worse, they go to the doctor again, to a hospital or in the worst case to intensive care. There is also a delay because it may take some time for the older generations to be lit by the large group of people under 30 who are infected, of course, slowed down by the vaccines. What do the experts say? The last digit is at least 150, up to 600 ic-beds, most likely 800 beds in total both in ic and ordinary, says Ernst Kuipers. But these are still significant numbers, and that is why we need to reduce them as much as possible and prevent them. To protect care, we must now intervene in nightlife.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u283	I'm sorry, but that wasn't an answer to my question. My question was: how far are you willing to go? I can tell here that we are about to go towards the goal of the number of infections or the number of positive tests. Is that indeed the purpose? Two weeks ago, I asked Minister De Jonge in a committee debate when he said that the goal might change. At that time I asked whether this was the case, but according to the Minister there was no question of it. But now a week later, I thank you for going that way, or are we not going that way and keeping it down from the pressure on care and protecting vulnerable people? Can the Prime Minister make that commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u284	If Mrs Van der Plas helps me with that and if there is a majority of the House standing by, yes. I have heard different groups. But assuming that the majority are behind that, that's our strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u285	So you're not in favour of letting go of that target.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u286	We control care protection, protect vulnerable and keep an eye on the spread of the virus. We don't send in on the number of infections. You can now see that the number of infections is increasing enormously and that can have a huge impact on the care. That's why you need to intervene now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u287	At the risk of losing my interruptions, I'd like to clarify. Last year many elderly people were not vaccinated and the figures showed that a lot of older people ended up in hospitals. This situation is different now, because many elderly and vulnerable people have already been vaccinated. The young people were said last year 'they do not get sick, they can do anything, they do not have to apply these measures'. Has anything changed in there? Now we look very much at the young people, and I understand that they are getting much less and less seriously ill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u288	If what Mrs Van der Plas is saying was true, we wouldn't have had a foot and a half in universities and colleges. We have them because young people may have the chance to get less seriously ill, but still run the risk of lung covid. It is not entirely impossible that they too should be hospitalized. It is a major risk that young people will infect middle-aged people and also older people. That will be less now because a lot of people over 64 have had a second shot, and most people underneath have had their first shot. The fact remains that there will still be a group of people who do not want a shot. I don't know exactly where that comes from, but about 10% to 13%. That's really a lot of people. Plus, the shot doesn't work on everyone. You still run the risk of a few million people still getting infected in the Netherlands. If the R is somewhere around 4 or 5, you could still get a flood of care. That R is high and not at that level, but we're trying to bring it back. The reason we intervene in nightlife and in major events is to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u289	Mrs. Van der Plas? Or...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u290	I'll keep them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u291	Very good. I think you did get an answer, so it was a good intervention. As long as you don't take advantage of your intervention, we're gonna notice. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u292	I think I've got three left. It's fitting and measuring here. It remains a little strange that the cabinet can talk endlessly and that we should confine ourselves to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u293	You've all been talking for four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u294	Two minutes. I always get half the speaking time. Anyway, I'll be brief and concise...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u295	Perhaps a comment on that. The way in which questions are formulated can sometimes lead to a concrete answer. I also note that the interruptions are long, so this may be an incentive. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u296	Yes, but that is why I am interrupting Mr Rutte and not Mr De Jonge, because that is a huge shortening of the debate. You've apologized for all sorts of things, but I think this is about deception. There are two groups that I think have been misled. I don't think the microphone's working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u297	Yeah, he's doing it. Okay, okay, okay, Go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u298	Okay, okay, okay. Children have been vaccinated on the assumption that they could have parties again, that they could go to festivals and travel. The festival entrepreneurs were under the assumption that if they complied with the rules and had rigged up all those testing facilities, they could open up again. Then one day in advance, if you put those people on the spot like that, it's deception, isn't it? I make this appeal on behalf of these two groups. Can you imagine these people just feeling cheated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u299	No. I can imagine them wanting compensation, and we're going to. But I don't think the word "false" is the right word, on the contrary. We are dealing with combating a very serious pandemic. This affects these sectors tremendously. I hate it for every festival entrepreneur, for every discotheque owner, for every pub that is open at night and where can be danced, that we have to do this. I really hate it, but this isn't the word. We are dealing with a pandemic that rages around the world, constantly asking us to find a balance between "what can you release again, what can you open again so that you can safely help the country get going again" and have to intervene again if things are not going well, et cetera. It's just not right here. We need to take too much action here. That means we misjudged. I have just explained in detail where it is in our eyes. But it is part of the pandemic fight that I cannot say to anyone in the Netherlands "it never affects you." And when it happens, we're going to try to minimize the damage in the financial and social sense as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u300	Of course, you have to at some point when you're in charge and think you're doing a good job. I assume you're doing it with the best of intentions. I get that. First of all, the timing is really weird. The day before festivals start, you lock up the whole place. Secondly, this reminds me of the fact-free decision taken at the time to close down the catering industry. At the time, 2.9% of the infections were traced back to the catering industry and yet the catering industry closed. The masks. Everyone, friend and enemy, agreed that the masks didn't work and yet we were given a duty to protect our mouth. Curfew has never worked anywhere and yet we have a curfew. I think it is a repeat of the fact that we are once again dealing with a kind of decisive action: 'we are going to intervene'. I think that's why these groups feel cheated. In any case, this is very strange for these groups, who have done everything in their power to comply with the rules and then, as far as I am concerned, are being set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u301	I am so glad that we have strengthened the selection system within the VVD since Mr Van Haga, because he lives in a fact-free reality for which I am almost ashamed. That's really horrible. That's bullshit! Let's take a look at last year's March and what happened at that time. At that time, we were faced with a risk that health care would become completely overloaded. Did we say for fun that we're closing down cafes? And did we ask shops to be open for less time for fun? The schools had to close too. Did we do that for fun? That was just necessary, wasn't it? If the Germans hadn't helped, we might have come up with code black. We were afraid at some point that there would be 3,000 beds occupied. Should we have said on Sunday: we don't know for sure, we keep the cafes open? Of course not. What a total nonsense this is. What total nonsense! A total reality of its own! I really can't do anything with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u302	I would ask the Prime Minister to conduct the debate on the substance and not on the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u303	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I did not make the first comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u304	Thank you. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u305	Of course, it's not that easy. I make a comment and then I did not make the comment. We're going for group immunity, and I never said that again. Good thing we strengthened the integrity requirements at the VVD and then I did not make that remark. The fact is that facts-free decisions are being taken. 2.9% of the infections were traced back to the catering industry. And yet the catering industry was locked. That's a fact. Then you can say: we do that for the public good. But this is a very bad decision based on very clear facts, which are apparently misinterpreted. The same goes for the mouth caps, the curfew and the lockdown. The WHO has already said that lockdowns do not help. And yet we've gone into lockdown, with all the damage that's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u306	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u307	I'm closing up. I won't say anything about the VVD, because in the end I'm glad I've been a member of the VVD for 38 years, with all due respect over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u308	That's good. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u309	The Prime Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u310	A few more things, because many questions have been answered by the interruptions. Perhaps the homework advice, because at least a question has come from the SP, the PvdA, GroenLinks and again from the PvdA via another line. First of all, homework advice is still valid, but it has been extended. You know, up to half your working hours go to the office, and only if that's safe, and keep a foot and a half away. If this isn't safe in the office, work at home anyway. In response to the latest increases, we have taken a number of very targeted measures to reduce the increase in the specific target groups, hence the nighthoreca and nightlife. We are following these developments very closely. Nevertheless, it is true that we have not restored the fact that we deviate from an earlier OMT advice on working at home. On this point, we do not in itself see any reason to revise that homework advice from our estimation of the figures. At the same time, I note in the Chamber that there could be broad support for this. I do not know whether another motion will be tabled or otherwise, but at least the cabinet will respond positively. Then back to the previous homework advice, which I don't have here for a while. I think that was "work at home as much as possible," I say out of my mind. But I want to get it right on the word level. If we find that with each other, we could also agree that that will be the deal and that we will go back to the previous advice. If you're okay with that, I don't see anyone jumping up mad, we're gonna do that. Then to the strategy. I have already mentioned this in response to the various questions. There was a question from the VVD and D66 about the effects of the measures. Mr Paternotte and Mr De Vries asked when the first effects would be visible and how they would relate to 13 August. It's kind of complicated. Aura Timen of the RIVM said in her technical briefing yesterday that the effect of the measures will only be visible after a day or ten. The measures started on 10 July, so you won't know the effect until 20 July. I am not going to repeat all the measures, but you know that multi-day events had already been postponed to Saturday 14 August anyway. Last Friday's measures are scheduled to expire on 13 August. We are engaged in intensive discussions with the sector in the run-up to 13 August. We will then have to weigh up the epidemiological situation again to see whether we need to extend measures or whether relaxation is possible. Of course, that's a very short day, but it's no different. I'm really sorry about that, and I find that incredibly annoying. Which brings me to the last set of questions that I would actively like to answer from my side. They have to do with the support for the sectors that are now being hit so hard. Several questions have been asked about this. I am not going to read the letter here about the existing guarantee scheme, the supplementary scheme and the pop stages. Maybe I can finish this bit; then I've answered all my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u311	I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u312	I suppose it's known, because that letter was sent this morning. I think that, when I hear the questions from the Chamber, there is such support for them. But a few questions have been asked that affect the adjacent plots. One of them is: can't you go up to 100% in the NOW scheme? Mrs De Vries asked that question. I wouldn't be for that. The NOW 4 runs from 1 July to 30 September. We've narrowed it down to 80%. The reason is that a turnover loss of 100% is expected to occur very little. This is still uncertain for the affected sectors, and we will have to continue to monitor this very closely. If you were to adjust the NOW differently, you'd do it for the whole NOW. You can't make sectoral differences. That is completely impossible in the implementation. That's not for the UWV to do. You should do that for the whole NOW, and we think that is going too far now. The only thing I can promise is that we will monitor closely how it develops with the event sector and whether more is needed there. Mr. Chairman. Members Hijink and Westerveld asked: what does the cabinet do? I suppose the letter is familiar. If you can agree to this, I will not go into further details now. I think the letter was clear. If there are any questions about that, please. Then I'll try to answer it in a minute. Then there was a question about the TVL and the 1.8 million limit on it. It is expected that after the second quarter there will be companies that will reach that state aid limit of 1.8 million and will therefore no longer be able to receive aid for their fixed costs in the third quarter. Here we are truly bound by the European rules of the aid framework, where the maximum amount of aid is 1.8 million. This applies to the entire duration of the temporary aid framework. That is therefore from the start of the corona crisis until the end of this year, 31 December. There was also a question about thezzp'ers. For that, the Tozo remains available to them. If an event for whichzzp'ers have been hired is prohibited and cancelled, the organiser may claim the guarantee scheme, the additional allowance or the pop stages scheme. This enables him to fulfil his obligations towards his subcontractors. That's how the whole chain stays in place, which is terribly important. Mrs van den Berg asked whether the additional allowance could apply until 3 September. It was an incredibly abrupt decision we made last Friday. Of course, you'd have wanted to do that with a lot more preparation time. It means that major commercial events that cannot take place are now eligible for compensation. For many smaller events, such as local music festivals or other festivals and summer parties, this additional arrangement comes. This applies for the period between 10 July and 13 August. We keep a very precise finger on the pulse towards August 13th and also remain in conversation with the sector. The events covered by the Guarantee Fund are generally larger and require more investment and a longer preparation period. For this reason, the guarantee fund has been chosen to apply in advance until 3 September. But, of course, we're not gonna get very tight in this. If it turns out that enlargement is necessary, it will come. There's no doubt about that. However, I cannot undertake to do so now. The letter is as it is now, but of course we will monitor it very precisely and if necessary we will do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u313	Thank you. There are a number of questions. Firstly, Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy, then Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD, then Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA and Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP. And Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u314	More and more people see that it is a big lie that today's corona policy serves to protect our public health. That, of course, raises the question of why all these horrible measures are being taken that destroy our whole way of life and our entire society. Now there are a number of influential globalists, who claim to see the corona crisis as a huge opportunity to reset our world and therefore have the perverse interest of continuing this crisis. One of these globalists is Klaus Schwab, founder and chairman of the World Economic Forum. He has written a book with the catchy title COVID-19, The Great Reset. My question to the outgoing Prime Minister is how he assesses the contents of this book.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u315	I don't know the book. But I would advise Mr Van Meijeren not to believe too much in all these conspiracy theories. I watch them all, too, on YouTube. I always find it fascinating how it is explained, for example, that 9/11 did not happen, or that everything is different. It's incredibly clever, but it's usually what it is: a conspiracy theory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u316	I am surprised that the first question I have asked Mr Rutte since I was sworn in as a Member of Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u317	Congratulations on that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u318	Thank you. But I am surprised that the first question is answered directly with a lie. I have a letter in my hand dated 26 November 2020. That is a letter from Mr Rutte to Mr Klaus Schwab, in which he thanked Mr Schwab for sending his book and called it a "hopeful analysis for a better future." Could Mr. Rutte dig into his memory for a moment? It hasn't been six months, so I don't know how long his memories will last, but it's probably still digging up somewhere. Will he answer my question again and now honestly, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u319	My only answer is that that's a decent letter. Unfortunately, you can't read all the books you get sent from cover to cover. Whoever sent them, you'd like to return a friendly letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u320	So Mr Rutte says that he did not lie to me, but to Mr Klaus Schwab.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u321	I was diplomatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u322	But then I'd like to ask a question. Mr Klaus Schwab argues in his book for resetting our world and replacing our national parliamentary democracy with a global technocracy. He pleads for the end of private property. Mr Rutte is apparently not even aware that he has called this a hopeful message for a better future. How is it possible for Mr Rutte to value a book with a neo-communist message when he hasn't even read that book?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u323	Oh, boy. Klaus Schwab is the founder of the World Economic Forum. The man has spent his whole life in the service of bringing together the private sector, the politicians and NGOs to conduct a dialogue on how to help this world. I have the utmost respect for him. I don't agree with him in everything. I read another book of his, about the fourth industrial revolution. I think that's a very nice book. I didn't read this book. Personally, I have great respect for Professor Klaus Schwab and his life's work, the World Economic Forum, which I think is very important as a platform for meeting. Many young people are also given a chance to discuss major issues about climate, environmental transitions and energy transitions up to and including how to set up our future industry properly. This is done in full openness and visible to everyone. So there is no reason to doubt Klaus Schwab's intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u324	Finally, because I would also like to put a question to Minister De Jonge. I would like Mr Rutte to correct for a moment towards Klaus Schwab that he does not think that his book offers a hopeful message for a better future, that he has not read the book and that he does not think it is a good book, as he says in his last comment. That seems to me to be the least we can expect from an honest Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u325	I'll leave that summary for the speaker. But Mr Schwab closely follows all of the House's debates, so that will be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u326	The mic's not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u327	I keep having that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u328	Apparently that's how it works, but the microphone's working now. Let's check out the support packages. The Prime Minister states: NOW, difficult and technically difficult. Doesn't the Prime Minister find it complicated that the aid package assumes that there are no more companies closed, while we are now making the choice that at least until 13 August a number of companies are closed, so that you can't ask those companies to work with such a turnover ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u329	I get that. I think we should monitor very carefully what is fair in the direction of that sector. I think today's package is important for putting a good soil under the misery that has been done to these companies since last Friday. I also think that we should look very closely at how things develop after 13 August and that we should do more if necessary. Only I would be against adjusting the NOW, because that's what you have to do for all the companies. If we need more, we need to find a way to set it up, for example by extending what we have now sent to the Chamber, if that is necessary. Hopefully that won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u330	I really hope there's gonna be a generous look. Should it not be possible to do so in advance, are there other solutions? Can we then, for example, look at the final bill if companies are actually caught up by such a turnover ceiling? I would find it really very unreasonable that, because we have now made up that companies would not be completely closed, we should decide something else. We must say: this is so unreasonable, you must also find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u331	Yeah, I get that. I just want to prevent us from lifting the whole NOW to 100 for everyone. So I don't want to make that commitment right now. However, I would like to make a commitment that we will monitor very closely with the Chamber, at least with the parties who are now asking questions about it, what is happening and what is needed. I agree that there is nothing these companies can do about it. They are now faced with an incredible thump in the middle of the face.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u332	That gives uncertainty to a company. Can the Prime Minister at least promise that, for example, that ceiling will be taken into account in the final account?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u333	No, I can't agree to that. I can only promise that we will have to look into that. Hopefully there'll be lots of things by August 13th. If that is not the case, there is a different situation anyway, because the package discussed in today's letter assumes that it will end on 13 August. Please let us hope that it is. But especially for the nightclubs, we just don't know that yet. It's all really exciting. Here's what I'd like to say. If it turns out that by then, for all those companies, or for some of them, it simply looks even less than we already fear, then the cabinet will have to come back to the Chamber with an answer to the question of what that means for aid to those companies. I can't estimate the specific instrument of the final statement. I would like to see that in the next progress letter. Then I will ask the troika to provide a piece for that, which will address the question of whether it could be technically feasible. I can't tell now whether that's feasible from the final account. I understand the suggestion, but I can't see it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u334	Thank you. Just check and double check. Do I understand correctly that the Prime Minister says that the additional concession event ends in principle on August 13th, but there can of course also be SMEs that are already engaged in events and have made costs for them after August 13th, so I am willing to look at them with a coulance and a warm heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u335	I can't promise Coulance right now, because I really have to put it back in the troika. I really want to ask him what exactly is the situation and how it is estimated. But it's a warm heart. So I'll take that part. And I fear that we will meet Mrs van den Berg in front of us if that other part is not properly filled in. However, I cannot undertake to do so now. I can't promise more than what's in the letter right now. But I understand that we will have to look at it if it turns out that there is something very unreasonable in it that goes on until after 13 August, and Mrs van den Berg asks us why we do not continue until 3 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u336	I'll just hold this for a little while. Then we would have asked another question. A lot of events have been cancelled now. Would it be possible to turn a few big events into a field lab experiment? That could be a relief, even for the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u337	I bounce that question over to Hugo de Jonge, but he looks with a look: he's not in my set either. Otherwise, I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u338	I call Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP and then Mrs Westerveld, Mrs Van Esch and Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u339	In response to the letter we received, for which we thanked, we have now discussed the remuneration for events. But I would like to prevent us now from feeling that this is defined as: this is the regulation, the concession, for the companies affected by the abrupt measures of Friday. I was thinking, for example, of a catering entrepreneur who, with tests for access, had another wedding in mind and who is in one place with supplies that he can't use anymore. I'm just making something up. What I am concerned with is: to what extent is there room to look carefully, because this has now been put together with speed, which examples are still available of other companies which may be excluded from the existing arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u340	We have said in the letter, even quite explicitly, that it does not include, because the aid packages themselves are also breathing along. If a company is suddenly confronted with major changes in the economic situation, then of course existing arrangements also provide for this. I would like to check it out and deal with it in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u341	I am particularly concerned about the extent to which, as a result of these abrupt changes, there used to be a temporary stock payment, but it has fallen away again, and if there can still be circumstances for companies that are not in the boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u342	I shall come back to that in the second term. I'm gonna get a heads-up on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u343	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u344	I am afraid to give an answer to this for sure. Then maybe I'm gonna be too careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u345	I have a question about the letter we received just before this debate, which I was able to read during this debate. Perhaps that is also good to say for the people who sometimes notice that we are very much on our iPad: that is because sometimes you are still reading letters from the cabinet during a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u346	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u347	What I read in it is that the scheme is being extended but that the costs are only reimbursed for proven or legally compulsory expenditure. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about, for example, the cost of security, the cost of caterers and missed revenue from bands. I've worked quite often at a festival in my student days and then you see what happens. The non-continuance of such a festival not only costs the organizer, but also costs all those people around it who do that important work and who have been preparing for months to have that festival take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u348	The purpose of the guarantee scheme, as well as the additional compensation, is precisely to meet the obligations to subcontractors, i.e. the other parties involved, with that aid. That's how the arrangement was put together. The TOZO is available for thezzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u349	I understand that, but I'm dealing with clearly missed income or legally compulsory income. For example, a caterer standing there who is going to miss a large part of his turnover. It's hard to predict in advance what he's gonna miss. I wonder if that's part of that definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u350	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u351	And I have another question that relates to that, because if I read it correctly in the letter, but I read it quickly, 80 million will be available for this supplementary regulation. There are quite a few festivals that would take place in the coming time and for which it is still uncertain. I wonder if 80 million is enough. If you only look at big headliners on Lowlands, a band often costs a few tons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u352	If there's more to it, it's no big deal. The arrangement is in place and it's not that it's limited to 80 million and you don't get anything else. In my view, the scheme is intended to cover the costs in the chain, so that the whole chain is maintained, because you do not want the whole sector to get into trouble. The specific question about the caterer who doesn't know his sales yet, I'm gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u353	Not just caterers, but security, builders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u354	No, I mean caterer in quotes. It is true that it also applies to security. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u355	I give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party, then to Mrs Simons, then to Mr Paternotte and then to Mrs De Vries. After that, I want a dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u356	I specifically asked about thezzp'ers, those makers, who are now also with their hands in their hair. The Prime Minister says that's what the Tozo scheme is for. We know that the Tozo scheme for many of these makers is not the solution at all, for example because the partner test is done. These people, for example, indicate that they have temporarily worked elsewhere in recent months. They have stopped that temporary job again, because they thought they could work in the profession again where they put their heart and salvation in. They see once again that this is being destroyed. I'm afraid I'm wondering if the Prime Minister shares that. If we don't keep these people for the cultural sector now, they will actually have to disappear, because they just don't have any financial options to keep their heads above water. I wonder what we'll do for them, except for the Tozo scheme. I don't think that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u357	No, it's not just Tozo. If an event organizer has hired people and the event is subsequently banned or cancelled, the event organizer can claim the warranty, the additional scheme or the pop stages scheme. This is precisely how the subcontractors, the others, can be helped. I just said that you still have the Tozo next to it for thezzp'ers, but that's not the only thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u358	I would like to ask the Prime Minister about something that has not been discussed today. That surprises me a bit from the VVD Prime Minister, because the VVD is still the party of law-and-order. It's about enforcement. I haven't heard anything about that. Do I have to be with Minister De Jonge for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u359	Absolutely. He's as right-handed as I am. He's in charge of enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u360	Mr. Chairman. I hear I misplaced my interruption. I would ask you to allow me to do the interruption later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u361	That's totally good. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u362	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u363	I shall then give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66 and then to Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u364	It is about a question I have asked, so I would not like to see it so much as an interruption. I had a question about the fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u365	Yes. Enforcement is with De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u366	So that's gonna be a cliffhanger for after dinner?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u367	Yes. You really need to survive that whole piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u368	Then let's get back to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u369	All right. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u370	I have one more question about working at home. We've just learned a lot of lessons about communication and behavior. It does give us a very confusing picture, let's just say that at the moment this is actually going to be the line. How is this being communicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u371	Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u372	People go on vacation. What's this gonna mean to people? How should this be practical with companies? I think it's important to know how this affects the amount of contamination. Of course, it has to do something about the number of infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u373	The OMT is clear. The OMT has said: keep the homework advice as it is. That is also the point of a number of parties. We have adapted this and said: work up to half in the office, provided that a distance of 1.5 metres is kept. This debate is also to see if what we decide now has support. I'm trying to figure it out. If I get it right and feel it, point one is about ventilation. This is said to be added to the code of conduct. That's what we're gonna do. This is the second concrete commitment. Hugo and I will take both subjects into the press conference on Monday. Then we will formally tell the Netherlands. Of course, it will undoubtedly be reported through the media from this debate, but we are not dealing with that ourselves. They usually report these kinds of things in quite detail. We'll do that on Monday. We do that because I feel that people are saying: stay there with the OMT advice now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u374	I do have the next question. We have just talked very much about the number of lessons learned, including behavior. What does it do with people's behavior when we go from one side to the other? Is this what people are gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u375	My explanation will be that we have no dictatorship in the Netherlands. We have a cabinet that governs, but it does so in dialogue with parliament. Our feeling is that a majority of Parliament, of the House of Representatives, says: you should actually stick to the OMT advice. We'll communicate that way. We'll do that just like we did with the mouth caps once before. We weren't like that back then. In the end, the majority of the House said that we think it should be done. At that time, as a cabinet, we said that we are fighting the crisis together, so we are taking over. This isn't our idea. I think that ventilation really is a point that we are excited about adding. Here it's a little less, but it doesn't matter. If a majority thinks so, then we simply should not be childish about that either. That's the way it should be. It is very difficult to take a very precise look at each measure as to what it does with the infections. It's an advice. You can't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u376	This brings us to the end of the Prime Minister's first term. Let me explain whether there is a need to continue with the Minister of Health or to suspend for a dinner break. We have a short suspension anyway to stand up and possibly wash hands. I'm looking at the members. Is there a preference to continue? I hear going on. Before the Prime Minister sits, there is another interruption by Mr Wilders for the Prime Minister. Then I'll suspend briefly and then we'll continue with the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u377	It is not on this subject, but I hope you will allow me to do so, Mr President. At the moment, I think I am speaking on behalf of all my fellow Members, I would like to draw attention to and express support for the province of Limburg. There is currently a large flood in Hoensbroek, a village or town in Limburg. People there are advised to turn off gas and light and find a safe place in the house, because the rivers are in danger of flooding. The army has been deployed and roads have been closed down. I'd like to support the people. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, on behalf of all of us, to contact the governor during the break to express his support and our support and to say that we will help where necessary and where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u378	It goes even further. Stientje van Veldhoven, the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State, is on his way to Limburg, to understand himself with the authorities. Cora van Nieuwenhuizen, the Minister of IenW, is in the West. Stientje van Veldhoven is on his way. We'll be in close contact with each other and we'll do whatever it takes. I very much agree with Mr Wilders that it is really terrible what you are seeing happening right now in Limburg. We're very sorry. I agree with him 100%. We'll do whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u379	Thank you. I agree with what Mr Wilders said. Lots of strength desired for Limburg. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment. Then we'll move on to the first term of the U.S. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u380	I shall give the floor briefly to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u381	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to comment on Wilders' comment on Limburg. The information I had when I started answering was that Stientje van Veldhoven would go this afternoon. She was also on her way to Limburg, but returned after consultation with the region, because they prefer to receive her tomorrow morning. That's more practical for all kinds of reasons, so she'll be there tomorrow morning, not tonight. She was on her way. She has returned, because the region says: rather tomorrow morning. I'm also going to make a phone call to Johan Remkes and tell him, also on behalf of the Chamber, I think we're all very sorry. So that's what I'm doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u382	Thank you. We're just gonna clean up for a little while. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I call the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u383	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start the answer in a moment with a block about working with tickets and the questions that have been asked about them. Then I come to a number of more epidemiological questions, including how we deal with the preparation of measures that fit in with the current epidemiological picture over the summer. I'm talking about the part that hasn't been answered by the Prime Minister. Then I come to the questions about travel and the questions about vaccination. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the questions about working with tickets. Of course we would have liked not to be here, at least not for this reason. The fact that things have gone so fast and so fast with these contagions has not been anticipated and has not been prevented. The Prime Minister and I also said this on Monday: what seemed to be justified at the time was only a few weeks ago, has simply proved to be an error of assessment. This has to do with a number of elements, but certainly also with the use of tickets. We have the ability to proceed safely, given the epidemiological situation, just overestimated. What was possible in a controlled environment of the field labs and what was justified in the pilots, in the uncontrolled setting of the past weekends was simply an excessive sum of risks, one might say. Too wide an application of access tickets and, as a result, the sum of residual risks that had previously been calculated, but when justified given the low level of contamination, it was simply found to have resulted in a large sum of risks. I would like to look at this type of residual risk, because it is in fact in line with all the questions that have been asked. So I can answer several questions at once. I think that makes sense, also for the sake of time. The first element involved is the element of the false negatives. If you have a low level of infection and have designed everything for the rest in a good, controlled way, then of course you still have some false negatives. You can also afford them with a lower number of tests, so less events and a less wide range of applications. But as the contagion rate increases, the number of false negatives also increases. If the number of tests increases, so the number of events where you work with tickets, then the number of false negatives becomes problematic. That is my first consideration at the moment. The second is the width of the use of tickets, so that is very closely linked to this. We would have thought that the tickets would of course be widely used at all kinds of events. In addition, we had thought that the tickets would also be used in the catering industry, also in the nighthoreca. But such a broad commitment, with such an incredible question, has actually been higher than we thought. On the busiest day, there were 315,000 tests. That's a lot, and that's high. A third point is the duration of the test result. A lot has been said about that, about the 40 hours and the 24 hours. At the time we made that assessment aware, indeed in the context of a low level of contamination and also looking at the consistency with travel. In addition, we have indeed opted for 40 hours. That's actually 48 hours, but assuming that an average event will never last longer than that 8 hours, so minus that. That is indeed 40 hours before antigen tests and 72 hours during PCR tests. Is that something really weird? Well, if you look abroad, you don't. In every country, these 48 hours apply to the rapid tests. Denmark, for example, has been mentioned. There is even 72 hours for the rapid tests, again in another situation, for example in a situation with a much lower level of contamination. That was, of course, the starting point for deciding to do so in the Netherlands. Then the waiting period after vaccination will play. The "dancing with Janssen" is called. That actually applied to a waiting period, which we have said: we do not choose to do so. Not at all after a vaccination, so whether that was for the second shot for another vaccine or for Janssen. We have opted for clarity. We made that choice also in relation to travel. We have said: we are going to apply the same principles, because if we work with tickets, we will only do so in the light of a low level of contamination. Then it's accounted for. Then there is compliance and enforcement. Of course, rumbling at the door, cheating at the door and not maintaining it properly at the door, is never helpful for the safety behind the door. That's one thing that's for sure. In all this there has been a much greater risk in the uncontrolled execution practice than in the controlled environment of the field labs. Here comes the delta variant, which has accelerated all this again. How else? I have already taken a number of measures through these observations and we will have to take a number of measures. The first is that we have severely limited the scope of application to the culture and sport sectors, taking into account the 1.5 metres and only in place settings. The 1.5 metres can therefore only be released in these sectors, not in other sectors. Two is that the validity of the test certificate has been reduced to 24 hours. The waiting period for the vaccination certificate has turned into 14 days. Again, this makes the validity of the test certificate considerably stricter than almost all other countries in Europe, because there really is 48 hours the standard. With the vaccination certificate, we will be joining the rest of Europe again, because in all the other countries there are just 14 days waiting. In addition, I think we have homework to do with the different sectors, with the event sector and with the catering sector, namely: under what conditions can it be done? I share Mr Paternotte's view that I have also heard Mrs Van den Berg and others who have taken the initiative. Of course, we have deliberately started working with tickets to make things safe and responsible again, in a situation where it is not possible to do so without working with tickets. I know that there was criticism and that there is work with tickets. However, I would very much like to be able to continue working with tickets, because I do not rule out the fact that we will really need some time to get things back together, but in a safe way. Only, we can't go through the way we did it. The risk is simply too great, especially in the light of the delta variant. This means that we will have to make some adjustments. We have to learn the lessons we have to learn. We have now narrowed the scope of application very much. We need to see what adjustments are needed in order to be able to apply it a little more broadly. Whether we can do it across the same full width as we did, I'm not going to say yes to that right now. That is what I want to be able to discuss with the researchers who were also involved in the field lab events, and with the event sector itself and also with the catering industry itself, in the coming weeks. This leads to a planned conclusion that we would like to draw, to that evaluation actually of working with Testing for Access. We'd like to present it to the OMT. We want that OMT advice to be involved in the decision-making process on 13 August. Then we can decide on how to proceed with the Test for Access.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u384	Did that bring you to the end of the answer to block 1?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u385	Well, not the whole block, but with the most important questions asked around that Access Testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u386	What strikes me is that the Minister is making himself a bit of a victim of circumstances. That is not right, because we have had the debate, the debates on testing for access here. It has been the minister who has chosen to put it all away, to organize it commercially through a foundation, through hundreds of commercial testing offices that wanted to make a deal out of it. He says: we are surprised by the large number of people who have used this. But that was the responsibility of the minister himself, wasn't it? He didn't get a grip on it at all. He left it to a foundation and put it in commercial hands. He kept the G.D.D. all the way out of it. There was no monitoring of how the rules were enforced and it was very easy to cheat with those QR codes in the app. The Minister organized everything away, away from himself. He's out of control. Then he can't say, "Oops, we've been so mugged by it that it all went wrong?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u387	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u388	He put it away himself, didn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u389	Sure. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I am here to outline the errors of judgment we have made. I made it, because I'm ultimately responsible for it. I'm not putting any of that on others, certainly not. I've checked the errors of assessment with you, but we differ from observation and judgment, the question is whether you can also hire commercial test streets for this work. That was one of the most important differences of opinion. I also believe that the reason why the SP voted against working with tickets was because we didn't ask the GGD. I am still happy afterwards that I did not ask the GGD, because that, given the multitude of tests, without a doubt means that the test capacity had been overasked. I also understand that the GGD says: let us primarily do our work for public health and not for this. I don't think working with commercial test streets on their own is such a point, but I think the way in which control and enforcement has been handled is a point. In any case, the gate should not be tampered with, but if it had been checked better, some of it could have been countered, to a large extent. There is no doubt that we can maintain the question of whether the person at the gate is doing so in a good way. In short, we also have lessons to learn from this before we can take the step of using corona tickets again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u390	The GGD says: let us watch over public health. That is also their job, so that is absolutely right. Only, we now see the consequence of what happens when we watch over public health, give it away to commercial test companies. We have seen that a lot of that has gone terribly wrong. We can just read the pieces in the paper. There are places where test certificates have just been given, where people without a test have received a negative result. That is a consequence of giving it completely out of its hands. A parallel infrastructure has been rigged for testing. There was a complete privatisation of testing and thus of guarding public health. This, of course, has taken a huge risk. I would like to ask the Minister the following. If you want to go any further with this misery, consider taking back the grip so that the politics, the minister himself, hold much more control over how this whole circus is carried out. Because we are now completely out of control and we see that every day in the contagion rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u391	I am afraid that when it comes to analysing what needs to be done better, it is not entirely right for us to pretend that the providers who have provided the tests are the biggest problem. On the first weekend they had real problems doing the job in a good way. That had everything to do with an IT attack, which led to a huge delay because it had to be dealt with. On that weekend they had to come up with all kinds of solutions and that did not go well everywhere. Mr Hijink is right about that. We have also discussed this in connection with an oral question by Mrs Westerveld. That's just true. During the second weekend the performance on the side of the test providers went much better. But the implementation of the test for access did not go much better during that weekend, either in terms of control and enforcement at the gate or in terms of context. That was because the rate of infection had already increased considerably on that weekend. The difference between 24 and 40 hours began to play a role in that weekend, given the increased rate of infection. There was a lack of protection because the waiting period was not 14 days but zero days. This has been particularly problematic on that weekend. We changed that very quickly for that reason. The width of the scope of application was much wider during that weekend than in the first weekend. In short, I very much share that we need to have a grip on the implementation, because that uncontrolled setting of how it went in the first two weekends of actually using tickets was simply not good. And that really is not something that can be repeated. But whether the fact that we are also involving private providers is the biggest problem, I honestly do not believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u392	Of course, that's not my only point. The system is incredibly vulnerable. If you have a setting with 1,000 men inside who don't have to stick to any rule... they can cuddle, they can kiss, they can kiss anything... then only a few people have to walk around who have wrongly gone through the meshes of the net, and you have your superspread event. I think the Minister should be aware of this. With the knowledge that the delta variant in England was already going around like a madman, and even in our country, and that in many municipalities, especially where many young people lived, who were already going around very hard, it should have been assessed differently. I therefore believe that it is unthinkable for us to apply this system before the vast majority of the population will be vaccinated in August. And once we have reached that moment, my group would say: throw that system overboard and make sure that you have vaccinated so many people that you no longer have to organise that division.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u393	I agree, with the exception of the last sentence. But I fully agree with the rest of the argument, for all the reasons I have just mentioned, such as the degree of contagion, which really means that you have to make a different risk assessment of the validity of a test result and that you have to come to a different risk weighting with regard to "dancing with Janssen," i.e. not using a waiting period. I'm with you all on this one. We're not going to repeat that in the same way, especially not because of the delta variant and certainly not because of the knowledge that the wider you choose the scope of application, so also the nighthoreca in the process, the greater you have the chance that it's difficult to organize tightly at the gate. Of course, all these observations led me to say: no, it was just an error of assessment and we should have done it differently. I do not agree with that last sentence, because I think we have also agreed that there will be no vaccination obligation. I think we should want to stick with each other. That's one side of the story. The second side of the story is that at the same time we can't say that we don't allow nighthoreca or events up to the length of years and that we stay at 1.5 meters all the time. I don't think we can say that either. Because we don't know exactly where we're going to be in the fall, we're going to need one of those systems of ticketing. You can see throughout Western Europe that this is what is being done. Our task is therefore to ensure that this can be made possible safely. I don't think it's a good idea to make that possible with vaccination certificates alone. By the way, it is also questionable whether this is the safest way, because there is always a transmission risk after vaccination. Of course, epidemiologists warn of that. Also when working with tickets, so where you might only be working with vaccination certificates, that's not to be preferred for legal reasons, but imagine that you would, though, still have a transmission risk at the back of the gate. If these people are vaccinated and come back home, and possibly come into contact with unvaccinated people, it will be a more risky setting. So we will have to re-assess this whole thing and see how we get it safely behind the gate, but I would not like to opt for vaccination certificates alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u394	Mr Hijink's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u395	Four, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u396	No, six. This is your sixth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u397	Yes, but thanks to Mrs van der Plas' interruption, I have recovered two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u398	I was afraid of it. But the agreement was also to interrupt briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u399	The Minister gives a completely wrong picture here. I did not say at all that the SP is a strong supporter of vaccination certificates for nightlife or whatever. In fact, we've been saying that you shouldn't work with these kind of tickets. You must have patience and society so high... what do I say to this crookedness? You have to vaccinate society so well that 80% to 90% of it has eventually been vaccinated. Then you're going to relax carefully one step at a time. That's always been our line. On the contrary, you should not work with all kinds of test certificates or vaccination certificates. But now that the Minister raises that question, I do find it interesting to know what he thinks is the time when you might be able to get rid of it. If we are going to do so, I assume that at the end of August we are going to be at a point where up to 90% of the population is vaccinated, is the Minister still planning to keep those vaccination/access cards in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u400	First of all, I apologise if I had misunderstood your last sentence in your speech. It is indeed a different choice. It's possible. It's another choice if you say: we're just gonna stay careful until the end, and once we can all let go of those 1.5 meters, there are also things possible within that 1.5 meters; until then we're not gonna work with a pass system at all. It's possible. That's a choice you can make. The cabinet has made a different choice, and I would add this because we are not sure how long we have to keep that 1.5 metres. In the last few weeks, I have only become twice as cautious in this respect, knowing what has been caused by the use of tickets. That is not only because of that, of course, but it has indeed contributed to the no longer actually handling that 1.5 meter. Of course, we've seen it everywhere. Of course, this has also contributed to an important part, especially in the context of that delta variant. So that makes me cautious in the prediction until when we will need it. I've had the pleasure of being here for the third time this week. Yesterday, I was in a debate with the First Chamber. Then Mr.Van der Voort gave him back to an earlier motion of D66... that he wanted to have a lower limit for the handling of those tickets. I told you that once you can let go of the five feet, you won't have to work with tickets. In principle, that is the lower limit, albeit that I cannot completely rule out, for example, for nighthoreca or for nightclub-like settings, that even after releasing the 1.5 meters above an x-number of visitors, it might still be necessary to work there with tickets. That's one way. On the other hand, I think we should also consider an epidemiological upper limit. If you see where we are now and how we have gone from 500 to over 10,000 infections in two weeks, that is such an astronomical growth that you must also say that there is an upper limit to what is epidemiologically justified in handling tickets. Because you know you always have a residual risk, no matter how good you do it. We have not done well now, but even if we had done well, we would always have left a residual risk. This is justified at a lower level of contamination and not at a high level of contamination, and so you also have to set an upper limit. That was my commitment yesterday to D66, although in the First Chamber, and I will come back to that in the early autumn, because we will actually have to know that on 13 August. So this is one of the questions we are simply trying to answer, also in consultation with the experts who have been involved in working with tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u401	I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1 and then to Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u402	I probably have more questions than allow my interruptions, Mr. Chairman, so... well, okay. I'm going to ask some of the same questions as Mr. Rutte. I would very much like to know from Minister De Jonge what he thinks is the definition of the care that has been so protected in recent times, and why it seemed a good idea at the end of June to reduce that protection and to open it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u403	I think it is quite right to raise that question. I also think that in the answer to that question there is an important explanation for the choices we made on the 26th June, or at least on the 26th June, which we decided on a week before. We also discussed these choices with the Chamber during the week of the 26th of June. That's what's in here. What has always been our great goal is to protect the care and protect the vulnerable. In order to do that properly, you need to keep an eye on the virus; we have often mentioned that as a third target. Why did this aim justify all these measures of recent times? Because, as a society, we cannot afford to put vulnerable people in a vulnerable situation. And for that we have to say that we did indeed put a lot of what made our life so worthwhile, for a moment beside us and for a moment distanced ourselves from it. Of course, we have also discussed this very regularly in the Chamber. It's always a group of people who suffer from the virus, but the group of people who suffer and suffer from the measures against that virus, to keep that virus underneath, became as the crisis lasted longer and time passed. As the vaccination rate increases and you have brought the goals you have, namely protecting vulnerable people and protecting care, ever closer, you have to make that weighting in a different way. Then perhaps we should see if we can relax these measures in such a way that the people who have suffered very much from the measures suffer less. Of course, you make that weighting different when the vaccination rate increases. Where were we on June 26th? It's only been a very short time. All signals were then green, whether it was the hospital occupation, the ic occupation or the level of contagion. Of course we saw the emerging delta variant, but nevertheless all signals were green. Then you will also be faced with the weighting of proportionality: is it even proportional to do less than what you consider possible and responsible, partly on the advice of all experts? Or should you simply abandon these measures in the proportionality weighting, which we have also talked about here in the Chamber more often? This shall be without prejudice to any mistakes made in the use of tickets. I don't want to run away from that, because that was just a mistake of ours. Period. That weighting can explain why we took such a big step on June 26th.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u404	Then I'm actually still curious about the definition of "care." Because it sounds to my ears like Minister De Jonge is talking about hospital care. That's only 40% of the care. I insist that if you just focus on hospital care in this case, you miss 60% of the care that doesn't take place in the hospital on the ICU.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u405	Sure. I very much share that. But take a look at the care. We had about 400 deaths in the nursing homes at Christmas. We just started vaccinating there. The number of deaths of corona in the nursing homes has been extremely reduced since then. We are the first in Europe to start vaccinating disabled people in disability care. The number of sick people and deaths has fallen enormously. So we are precisely with the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them started to vaccinate, in such a way that in the second half of May we grossly modo all 60-plussers, all people with increased medical vulnerability and all people who work in care had vaccinated with direct patient contact. That also means that these figures were all in the green, so that we could do that extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u406	Mrs Simons, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u407	That will then be in two parts, namely first a response to what I have just heard and then my last question. That also means that I think you can conclude that what you focus on, namely getting the ic-figures down, causes a blind spot for everything else that still plays. Since this is my last interruption, I have to ask Minister De Jonge a question about enforcement. My question really is whether Minister De Jonge also received the letter from the Association of Dutch Municipalities, which says that they are getting in a lot of trouble with enforcement at the time when measures are being rolled up in this way. You're actually asking them for something they can't deliver. They make that very clear. Correcting the measures taken at that time will also pose an additional problem for the municipalities. A lot of measures are being taken and proclaimed and then corrected, and then we are going to change our mind again. That all seems very flexible. But the people who have to do it, they're really running after the facts. In what way does Minister De Jonge think that the measures that are now in progress, which again pose an additional enforcement question for the municipalities, are real?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u408	I believe that the measures we took last Friday require less enforcement capacity. The 1.5 meter was, of course, a measure in force. I have to say, however, that I did not see it as strictly observed everywhere. Then I did not see it maintained either. That's the other side. Mr Grapperhaus is always in contact with the presidents of the security regions and she is again with the mayors in their region about what enforcement should look like. It is absolutely true that the enforcement capacity of municipalities is, of course, not unlimited. That's absolutely true. We shouldn't go to a society where you put a police officer next to every citizen. We shouldn't want that with each other at all. Take the test for access. There really is a question of enforcement. Of course, we always said it was a three-stage missile. First of all, people shouldn't be shuffling at the gate. People just shouldn't do that. A few will try, but that is precisely why the control at the gate should be just right. It must be sound and well arranged. That's really on the entrepreneur's side. But even then, sometimes a few slip through. I'm sure you do, but that's what entrepreneurs really have to do. The municipalities will then have to take care of this again. That's a kicked-out way of monitoring. I know mayor's got a thing for that. They have also said that precisely because of the breadth of the application of working with tickets, they are concerned that they can still check everything. That is just one of the aspects that we need to discuss with them in the coming weeks. We also need to consider the conclusion to be drawn on the width of the scope of the access testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u409	Thank you. Mrs. Van den Berg from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u410	I had asked in my contribution whether it would be possible for some of the events that are all cancelled to continue as a field lab experiment in the coming weeks anyway. The Prime Minister indicated that the Minister would reply, but I only heard from the Minister the answer: we are going to look at it and we will return to it on 13 August. I just want to get an answer that might be a little more hopeful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u411	Well, I actually thought that was rather hopeful myself, also because I looked at it differently when I said this. Of course, we're not just gonna look at this. What we are going to do is make a better assessment of the risks on all fronts on which we had made an error of assessment. We are also taking these sectors to the table to see how we can solve it. On Monday we are at the table both with the event sector and with the Royal Horeca Netherlands. We look from the research glasses at what is best, given the circumstances and given the lessons of last weekend. How can you be safe? I think it's a little early to go ahead and do field labs. Those field labs were at the very beginning when we still had incredibly high hospital rates and an incredibly high level of contagion in the broad, in society as a whole and not just among young people. In February, we started with those field labs to see how you could do it safely. Then we have had the pilots in trying out the system of testing for access. That was quite a lot, but not nearly enough to actually draw lessons as we unfortunately had to draw that last weekend. We need to learn those lessons now. So another field lab isn't the art, we know that. The art is: how can you translate the lessons learned in the field labs into actual implementation practice in a good way. Due to damage and shame we have unfortunately learned quite a bit from the past two weekends. We need to apply those lessons by re-establishing arrangements for access testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u412	Then I conclude that the answer to our question is whether certain events in the next few weeks can be converted into a field lab, the answer is njet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u413	In this translation it sounds somewhat unfriendly, but we do so just to be able to start again on 13 August, but in a safe way. Let me put it this way. On Monday, we'll have a meeting with the sector and the investigators. We're going to share with them the observations I just shared with you and add their observations and see how it could be safe. Suppose until August 13th is the solution to do one or two extra field labs, then we'll do it. But I am hesitant about that right now, and I am honest with you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u414	Maybe it's useful that the minister finishes the whole block. Perhaps then questions will be answered in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u415	I have a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u416	Perhaps it would be useful for the Minister to finish this block, then Mrs Kuik, Mr Paternotte and Mrs De Vries will have the floor. And Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u417	Then I'll get right on to the enforcement side of it. How many fines have been issued for cheating on test certificates? The entrepreneurs are, of course, the ones who have to see whether someone is breaking the rules or not. When finding that infringement, the entrepreneur will initially refuse anyone access to the location. Screenshot QR codes were shown to the people at the gate. You can easily catch someone on that, because you can see the conveyor belt at the bottom of the picture. Then it is up to the entrepreneur to find out and then the entrepreneur sends the person away. If you want to fine someone for that in the context of fraud, then you have to file a report and so on. That's not gonna happen, of course. I can't check it, but I'm assuming that the shuffling didn't lead to fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u418	Mr Paternotte, I asked the Minister if he wanted to finish the block first, then Mrs Kuiken and then Mr Paternotte, Mrs De Vries and Mr Wilders will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u419	Then the question about dancing with Janssen. I have just mentioned it as one of the errors of assessment we have made. Let's get back to why we did that and how we went about it. In the spring we talked a lot about the use of vaccination certificates. Finally, in May, following the advice of the Health Council and the OMT and following the discharge of all medical, legal and ethical and technical conditions, given the epidemiological conditions in June with all the figures on green, I considered that someone who has been fully vaccinated could apply for a vaccination certificate to use it directly as an entry ticket. Of course, there is no medical basis for that. Medically, the vaccine needs two weeks to work. This is the information provided to Janssen in the context of the informed consent. That is also in line with what the OMT said about this. We have considered, in a context of a very low epidemiological situation, a very low level of contamination, whether you could also go to zero. We shared that with the Chamber in our letter of 8 June. That was in the government's juice appreciation of the committee's proposal on the Council recommendations. That's what we talked about. There's been an arrangement. What has happened on the Dutch side is that we have also applied the considerations we had about traveling to working with tickets. Thus, the choice has been made not to apply a waiting period. Indeed, we have taken the view that young people, who are tired of testing, could be an additional motivation for vaccination. That is, of course, the best protection on the longer term. Was it the fact that the increasing contagion rates are wise to keep doing that? No, and that's why we came back from that last Tuesday and let your Chamber know. Then there is Mrs Van Esch's question about lawyers and liability. I don't know. I can't check that now. I don't know what business they're planning to build. We'll just have to wait and see. These were the questions that were asked. No, festivals in the open air. A number of questions have been asked about this. I believe that GroenLinks, D66 and the CDA asked: couldn't it be in the outdoors? I could imagine that would be one of the lessons. Mr Paternotte mentioned a number of international lessons. I think we should include them in the next few weeks. What strikes me is that we are now connected with what is being done abroad in terms of waiting time. In terms of the duration of the test results, we are now very much stricter than in other countries. I don't know what kind of development there is going to be. Denmark even uses 72 hours for antigen tests. I think the rest of the country is at 48 hours, but I would also like to check that out. In Denmark, for example, I think that an event can never be larger than an x-number of people, I think 500 or 1,000. One has a rather limited perception of it. And in Germany, it seems that Mr Paternotte is saying, and I like to follow him in that, because I do not quite know that, if there is to be dancing, it should be done outside. We have to learn from that. Indeed, I can imagine that it might well be after mid-August that a number of things could be done and a number of things that we would have wanted have not been possible. We shouldn't be doing that for a while. I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u420	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u421	We're gonna get another explanation on how things turned out. The fact is, we've been in a lockdown for months and it's been screwed up in two weeks. This means that entrepreneurs are in pockets and ashes and that we are all wondering where we are going in the coming months. Hospital infections are on the rise again, there are many people with quite serious complaints and the pressure on care is only increasing. And that in two weeks' time. There were indeed signals about the delta variant, from the United Kingdom and Israel, from the experts, from the Red Team, but also signals from the Chamber after the first experiment in Enschede showed that there were so many infections after one weekend. Then the minister said they were childhood diseases and start-up problems. Does the Minister also recognise that the cabinet has not been sufficiently aware of the signals that were indeed there and the warnings that were there around delta? And why wasn't that seen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u422	Sure, delta was already there. Delta's not new. By the way, the speed with which delta has gained ground in the Netherlands is, of course, very much increased in the past few weeks. But back to the moment we made that decision, because I think this is a fair question. Of course, that question is haunting my mind, observing what has happened in the last few weeks. That's the way I reverse the movie for myself: where did we get here today and how did we do that? We had the open plan. In that open plan we have formulated a number of steps in a row. We then made the choice, given the successful outcome of the epidemic, to merge steps 4 and 5. We asked for advice on this first, and that opinion did not prevent us from actually doing so. Then we looked at whether we could take this step, this new step 4 of the open plan, responsibly. We have been advised on this, not only from the epidemiological point of view, but also from the behavior side and from the various planning agencies that weigh the social, social and economic effects. For example, we have been advised from different sides. Eventually you have a weighting of all those advices to do and you come to a choice. Then we discussed it with the Chamber. Were there any signs at that time that the meters weren't green, but orange or even red? Of course, but you always do. We are at a stage of the epidemic, where the opinions are not always consistent either. Of course, there are always other sounds. But the communist opinio at that time was real: what we do as a cabinet is logical and what we do as a cabinet is justified. But I can only come to the conclusion, after all, of course, that what seemed justified has turned out to be an error of assessment. I just said that and last Monday. There are several aspects involved. I've explained to you the errors of assessment we've made about working with tickets. So the answer is no. It is not that there were no dissonant sounds, but the communist opinio was that it was justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u423	Before relaxing, the R-value was already above 1. Two days after relaxing, the R-value was already above 2. In England things have been very bad and in the debates we have repeatedly asked: why don't we take some more time for the relaxations; why don't we have a pass in place? Look what happens to the delta variant, take an example. Look at the models that predicted truly exceptional growth. My question is still: what makes the Minister have an eye and an ear for that in the next explosion? Which means we don't stare at it blindly and we don't look at the advice through a tube, because that's what happened. It happened on a number of occasions, not just now, but last year as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u424	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u425	No, I wasn't finished, Mr. Chairman. Why am I mad? Soon we'll have a ventilation icon and we'll be able to work a little home again. Those advices were there last year. Last year, we also said, "Get that involved." Previously, we also said, with motions: involve behavioral experts in your advice. And now the lesson is that we need to listen better to behavioral experts, we need to introduce a ventilation icon and we need to get back to work at home. If that is the aftertaste of this debate, have we really learned anything to prevent all these infections, to prevent the suffering and to prevent hospitalizations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u426	I'd like to respond. First of all about the R. Just the meter of the R was in the green. How is that possible? Because you can always calculate the R only two weeks after the actual time the infection takes place. You can't calculate an actual R. It just can't be. That is not possible for a year and a half, so it is not new. When we made this choice, the R was well below 1. It was just an R from two weeks before. By the way, an R that comes just above 1 in a situation where you have a very low level of infection, is not immediately something to panic about. An R of 2 is a reason to immediately step on the brake. We did. That's one. Two. I simply do not share the observation that we would look through a tube or a straw through advice, because I think it is factually incorrect. Like we're preoccuped reading the advice and picking out just those things that are pleasing to us. After all we have learned over the last year and a half, we are not just weighing the epidemiological advice of the OMT, but we are adding the social and economic advice of the planning agencies. We also add the advice of the behavioral unit. And we share everything with the Chamber. The Twm is a great improvement in that respect compared to the Wpg as it worked before. Before measures go into effect, we share the arrangement with the Chamber. He'll be looking into it. That is what we are holding the debate on, so that the Chamber can check whether we are doing our job properly as a cabinet. That's the way it's supposed to be. This is without prejudice to the fact that we have made a number of errors of assessment. That is not because we did not like to include some of the opinions, or because we did not want to listen to them. No, the communist opinio of two weeks ago was: under this stellar is the step you make logical and responsible. But at the moment we can only come to the conclusion that it has proved to be an error of assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u427	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u428	Two weeks ago, I had the debate with the Minister. Then I said: I think it is unwise, it is going too fast and too unfocused, why do you want to implement all these measures at this rate? That's when we were talking about delta. We were then bonjoured away, sedated away. It wouldn't be so bad, and it didn't go that fast here. But now, only two weeks after the relaxations, there are already more than 10,000 infections, all kinds of entrepreneurs who are in sacks and ashes, and suppliers, singers and singers who are out of jobs again. And the whole concern is already in her hair, because she already sees it coming. I can only conclude that the signals were there, from abroad, from the experts in the Netherlands, that there was a real growth coming. I can only conclude that the cabinet has stared too blindly at the beautiful summer, at all freedoms and at the beautiful story, and has insufficient regard for what was actually going on under our eyes. All I can conclude now is that we now know what the consequences are. I really hope that now the scales have fallen off the eyes and that it will not go the same way in the autumn, because then we really have the dolls dancing. There will also come a time when it's just finished, that you really have to dare to learn lessons and not accept this anymore, because it's not nothing. It's about society as a whole, it's about a lot of money and it's about a lot of entrepreneurs. We were so close, but we just dropped it from our hands. I'm really charging the cabinet for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u429	That's what the Cabinet's charging itself with. But that is without prejudice to the fact that, when I turn the film back, we have come to the choices we have come to under the guise of the green signals. We have been advised from every angle. We have weighed those opinions and we have shared with the Chamber the outcome of our weighting of opinions as we have. That is what we have laid down in an arrangement, which is also formally related in the Chamber. I note that some critical remarks have indeed been made, but neither has the Chamber said: no, cabinet, ho! On the brake now! That wasn't the choice the Chamber made. I'm not blaming the Chamber for that. I only note that the choices we made, given the circumstances at the time, were not illogical and were also considered justified by our main advisers. And I also note that two weeks later you can nevertheless see that those choices may have proved to be a miscalculation. Of course we are going to learn from this. We learn from this for working with tickets. Of course we have this in mind when we think about releasing the one-and-a-half meter rule. We see how incredibly treacherous the virus is. We do not therefore make the choices as they are made in the UK, namely: just go on, boys, because we see that it stays quiet in hospitals. We're not so sure about this yet. I share the concern in that regard. Of course, we are going to see something about hospitalisations in the coming period, which is inevitable. How many recordings that will be, it's completely insecure, but we're gonna see them. We are currently in uncharted territory. That must lead to caution. We have already thought so, but that has proved to be an extra matter in the last two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u430	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66. I would like to ask the Minister to respond a little bit more succinctly and to repeat a little less. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u431	Mr. Chairman. It is also important, of course, to answer the questions properly. As far as enforcement is concerned, I heard the Minister say: we do not know how many fines have been paid. I cannot imagine that it is zero and that the entrepreneurs are actually about enforcement. This morning we received the figures of the festivals from the RIVM. GGD Hollands Noord: a village carnival with several hundred visitors, 102 infections. There's people climbing the fences. GGD West Brabant: a festival with 423 cases. QR codes were barely checked. Then there must have been fines handed out? Then something must have happened in that area, mustn't it? Can the Minister, if necessary in a second term, indicate whether those fines have been issued and how he looks at enforcement? In these access tests, too, we have really created a basis for this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u432	A few things, first of all about cheating: I thought your question was meant to be about cheating on tickets. You have to report this first, then you have to find falsehood in writing or fraud, which can then lead to a fine. I don't know if that's what happened. I can't imagine, because if an entrepreneur finds out someone's messing around, you just send them away on a Saturday night and then you're not gonna press charges. When it comes to jumping the fences, two things: if you catch someone in the act, you will fine it, but of course there is no fact code at the D.A.'s office. It will always be a 1.5 meter violation or otherwise from which you can trace that it has been jumping over the fences when working with corona tickets. I can't automatically verify that. I should be talking about the stories, and I don't know those stories about fines. On the other hand, when I hear these stories and of course I know them, I think we should say two other things about them. The first is: don't let it be pars pro toto for the way entrepreneurs have dealt with working at festivals and for the way they've dealt with access tickets. There are a lot of entrepreneurs who really did it in good faith. At the same time, and that is the other side, there is hardly any system for dealing with a ticketing system in this way. We can make this work with each other, and we can make this work with each other. We really will have to make some adjustments. But also in August it continues to arrive in the way we deal with it. We have to make it work together; a minister can't do it alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u433	Just those places where things have gone completely wrong and where the organisation has completely thrown the rules overboard, have ruined it for the others. That is also why I am asking how it is possible that there does not seem to have been any sanctions, or at least that is not known to the Minister. I hope that can still be looked at. Which brings me to August 13th. We did those field labs, the minister mentioned some examples from abroad and he also had a good analysis of what went wrong. I think we know that, too. Is it really necessary to clarify what can be done only on 13 August? I think people are looking at the introweeks, Lowlands is on the agenda on 20 August, we've done those field labs, we've had those experiences, we've just decided that the OMT is meeting every week, so we can also get their advice on this pretty quickly. Can't you do that a little sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u434	A small correction about the OMT: the OMT has decided to meet each week. We don't decide how often the OMT meets here. I'll get back to you on that. But more substantively responding to the question, I think we need a few weeks to learn lessons. Even if you are a catering entrepreneur or a festival entrepreneur, you have to check with the observations of the past few weeks how it could be safe. That's one thing. And then the whole context of: how much residual risk can we afford given the width of the application range? We will really have to recalculate that and we need our researchers to do so. If you look at the lead time of the research on the field labs, it took quite some time before we could draw any conclusions. When I hear the date of 13 August and I see what date it is now, I hope that we will be able to learn all these lessons in time and that we will succeed in putting those lessons in the lap of the OMT on the eve of our decision on the 13th August. I think that's an incredible amount of work in a very short time. Of course I understand the problem of the festivals in the second half of August. You also know that we did not start the whole work with tickets to stop now, even after it went very badly on two weekends. We have a lot to win and we also have a lot to give people a lot when it does work. Let's make it work, but we need some time to make sure it actually works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u435	Thank you. Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u436	I think I heard it wrong, but I got a bit of the impression that the minister indicated that he was just about to discuss the experience of the field labs and get involved in the follow-up. I hope that is not the case and that it has already been done. My point is also about that 13th August. I think it is important, especially for the event sector, that these lessons are learned more quickly. There's been experience with field labs. I really don't think you can let them swim in the dark until the very last moment about what's going to happen after August 13th. There's got to be a way to do that sooner than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u437	Yes, of course. When it comes to the field labs, here's the thing. Those lessons have been learned, but those lessons are involved in the design as we designed them. The point is that this did not work out very well. In short, I think there is a lesson to this: the controlled environment of the field labs is different from the uncontrolled environment of actual application practice. It is about the width, the number of tests and therefore the prediction of the number of false negatives in the situation that some of the people have been vaccinated and some of them have not, et cetera. All those lessons from the field labs we have involved in the design, but it did not go well. So we're gonna have to do better. We will also have to learn lessons from the past two weeks. It is not the case that the event sector is in the dark, such as: what lessons are these and what is the cabinet thinking about? After all, we want to draw these lessons together with the event sector. A meeting is scheduled for next Monday. We will see how we can learn these lessons quickly, but also together. That's gonna help. We're not really gonna make the decision until we get a new opinion from the OMT. I think we really should do that, given the circumstances of the past two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u438	I think we all know what went wrong. The Minister doesn't have to explain that. That's pretty clear. I think you can also distil out what else should be done in the short term. My point is that the sector is simply uncertain. He's had a hell of a punch. You want to give that one a little perspective, too. We need to talk to them, I assume that this will also happen on Monday to see if we can see a little further ahead. I understand that this is still surrounded by uncertainty, but I believe that we are obliged to do so in this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u439	Sure, but "give a little perspective"... We will have to translate the lessons of the last two weeks really well into how they can be done. Of course. The approach is that we're going to try to make a success of working with tickets. Anyone who doubts that, I can help right now. We must also include the lessons of the last two weekends, in the context of a fast-growing delta variant and a high number of infectious young people at the moment. That means I can't just say: at the events it might work, you know. In the last two weeks it has been shown that this is complicated, so I cannot say that. That wouldn't be justified. So we really need a couple of weeks to do that. Then we go together with the sector that presents articulate lessons to the OMT. On August 13th we make our own decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u440	Thank you. There are a number of follow-up questions. First Mr Wilders, then Mrs Gündoğan, then Mrs Westerveld and then Mrs Van der Plas. Mr. Wilders first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u441	Here's what I'm gonna say to the minister. The point of my speech was: do not panic so quickly. I am sure you have also read Professor Kroes, a virologist, this morning. That's kind of the story. Of course, the numbers are rising. If you had asked for more attention to ventilation in time, it would probably not have happened or at least less. I'd still like the Minister to reflect on it. The infections will always remain. We now have a limited influx in the hospitals and the ICUs. The occupation on the ic even drops slightly. The Prime Minister said, I do not think wrongly, that this will probably increase to 150 to 600 in the coming weeks. Perhaps the occupation in the clinics along with the occupation on the ICUs will rise to 800. That is 800 too many, but that does not lead to an unmanageable situation in healthcare. I predict that there will be many variants of the virus. There will be more vaccines, because the other vaccines do not comply. There will always be infections. I'd be so sorry. If we panic every time the number of infections increases, reverse things or take other measures, then we will never get our normal lives back, as far as we can. I would ask for a brief reflection on that. Mr. Chairman. My second point. What does this mean for the vacationer? Again, the Chamber passed that motion last week. Colleagues have also talked about it. You need to base those color codes not on the number of infections, but on hospital care. 17 million people live in the Netherlands and there are 74 people on the ic. We're gonna get code red. Next Thursday it will even be dark red if the numbers continue this way. It would be very sad if the holidays fell into the soup. What can you do? Have you been to that ECDC, that body of the European Commission, in Brussels since the adoption of that motion? I think they're somewhere in Scandinavia, but it's an agency of the European Commission. Have you already managed to get them to look into hospitalizations, vaccinations, or a combination of them, and that the holidays of the Dutch can continue? Many people at home who are following this debate are really looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u442	As far as the question of travel is concerned, I have devoted a whole block to it, so if you will allow me, I will go into it in detail. I have heard that question and I think it is justified. In fact, I honestly think that this question concerns most Dutch people at the moment: what do these figures mean for my holiday? It is not a goal of the policy, but it is of course very nice if we can go on holiday for the next summer. Then about the panic. I think it's very good to be very nuanced about that. I think that 'panic' is not the qualification that fits the response we gave as a cabinet last Friday. If we had done that, we would have said: look at these contamination rates; we are now at risk level 4 in all regions and so we need the same lockdown that we had earlier with 10,000 infections, to get that virus under control. Then the qualification "panic" would be justified, but we did not. We just figured out what it's all about. One of the analyses is at least: the 1.5 meters and our behavior. Another analysis is the delta variant. And yet another analysis is that working with testing for access is not going well. So we've intervened where we have to. What is the real risk for the coming period? The real real risk will have to be discovered in the near future. We're gonna have to be honest about that. We're gonna have to be a little bit unfamiliar. Where we could first look at Israel and the UK, because they were far ahead of us, we can do so to a decreasing extent, not only because the countries are a little different, but also because our own vaccination rate is now moving in that direction. Then we see some elements, some uncertainties, towards the autumn, and now we see some. Firstly, the level and homogeneity of the vaccination rate. It's all about what you can do. Second of all, you know it's never 100%. That means there's always people at risk of contamination. Those are the people who haven't been vaccinated. Let them assume that at some point they will be exposed to that virus and that they will get sick, especially with that delta variant, because it is so much more contagious, so that's just going to happen. Some of those people could get pretty sick. That depends a little on the age. Then there are a number of people who have been vaccinated, but whose immune system is not responding enough. It is estimated that between 5% and 8% of the population are affected. This means, of course, that they are still at risk after infection. So people stay at risk for that virus. What could happen? You could say that 10,000 was among young people. But of course that does not remain among young people, because they also encounter older people. So that virus is going to walk through the generations. That virus is gonna walk through the neighborhood. I'm talking about the low-level neighborhoods, as you yourself mentioned. That may mean that hospitalizations do come out of it. The question is, and we cannot answer it now: how much then? There's just a model limitation in that. We must simply experience this in the coming period. Let me say something about the models, how they work and also about their limitations. But the range, the margin of uncertainty, is just big right now. To be honest, I do not always hope so, but in this case I hope that reality will develop according to your prognosis. Only, I think we should also look not only at reality with those soft glasses, which I think is the core of your line, but also at the possibility that quite a few people are at risk of infection. This means that we need to be cautious at the moment and be sure for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u443	That's kind of my point, too. You are under the necessary political pressure. Mrs Kuik and other esteemed colleagues on the other side of the political spectrum only ask "why did you do it so quickly and should you stop doing so?" And all that crazy. Of course, with all due respect. But let's look at it objectively. You and the Prime Minister have held the Chamber for a year and a half. I am referring, among other things, to hospitalizations; I will not repeat the whole racket. Then we also have to be able to take a punch, no matter how annoying that is. You yourself mentioned the example of Prime Minister Johnson, who has about the same figures when it comes to hospitalisations. They're a little higher, but it's not a big difference. They are therefore also relatively low in the United Kingdom. He's just gonna keep going on the line. It was hospital care. Okay, they have a slightly higher double vaccination rate than the Netherlands, I'll admit that right away. But they come, as you said, with a Freedom Day, a day of freedom. So I'm deliberately going to hang a little bit on the other side of the world than the Chicks of this world, to make sure we don't panic about whether you do or not when the numbers are too high. Then I had a second question. It was about the color codes. I didn't hear the answer to that. Did you say you'd come back to that in a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u444	I even devoted a whole block to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u445	There's gonna be a block of travel coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u446	You'll get back to me in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u447	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u448	My main message is: try to get those holidays... Once again, if our hospitals were full, I would not have asked you to do so, but now that we are not, I say, do not spoil people's holidays.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u449	I'll be right back at the last. And as far as the first one is concerned, we always have to weigh in risks, risks that you consider responsible, risks that you dare to take. Now that we have entered the unknown, with a very high degree of protection, also in international terms, but not yet high enough to really be in the clear, we really need to be sure, I think, and not too quick to think: well, those infections do not affect us anymore. They can actually hit people who do end up in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u450	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u451	I'm on the other side of the spectrum, because Mr. Kroes was wrong twice. I think that we can see with each other about this virus that we don't know a lot and that a lot of experts don't know things either. In the base you have two choices. Are you gonna make sure or are you gonna take more chances? Together with more colleagues on this side, I would indeed argue that we should be more on the safe side. I think that's what this is all about. With that very big question as to how things will proceed, which many people don't know about, and with the chance of a mutant in or outside the Netherlands, we better put this pandemic behind us as soon as possible. I would therefore like to ask when you will come up with the model in order to be sure. What are the figures, then, and what is the situation in which you opt for a different approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u452	It is interesting to see these two interruptions facing each other in this way. I think this has been the normal distribution, the bell-shaped distribution in the Chamber for a year and a half. Part of the Chamber says: "Oh, you can do much harder; you can't lock up the whole society for the limited group that is actually at risk of getting into the hospital or even dying." Another part of society says: beware; don't take a risk, rather no risk than a risk that might prove irresponsible in retrospect. The point is, we can't do that either. I want to be clear about that. I get that a lot when I hear these observations. Maybe those are also the observations that Mrs. Kuiken just referred to, who asked: why didn't you take those signals? Let's say you really want zero covid. That's the concept that often goes with that. And if you really mean that in the Netherlands, then the measures that you have to take for that are so all-encompassing, that we are going to suffer a lot more from the measures against the virus than from the virus itself. Throughout the last year and a half you can see that the extent to which we suffer from the virus and the extent to which we suffer from the measures against that virus have shifted. The group suffering from the measures against the virus has grown, I think. This means that measures must always be proportionate, as the Second and First Chambers have said on several occasions. We are dealing with this weighting of proportionality, because they are restrictions on freedom. Inevitably, they are restrictions on freedom, but that must not go beyond what is strictly necessary. We always have to take that test with each other. That makes our business so beautiful, but sometimes so difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u453	Yeah, I get that. I understand that very well. At the same time, this yojo policy of driving and still, driving and stillness makes no one happy. That's what I said before. So I think we should just do what the Germans and the Belgians have already said to us: don't so much and so quickly. If you relax, let go of one measure, see how it works for two weeks, look at the statistics and the data, and see if there's anything more to it, instead of letting go of a lot more immediately and then thinking afterwards: we shouldn't have done this. Now we have an R that is above 2 and more than 10,000 infections. It is now praying and asking the gods to please ensure that we do not immediately have a Dutch variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u454	Others have already made a joke about this: that Dutch variant can never be very contagious, because it is meeting with itself all the time. But much more serious: I think I actually agree with you if you say you want to relax step by step. Hence the open plan, which consisted of several steps. So we didn't run down the mountain. We have been in the situation in which we considered a very big step to be logical, and also to be justified. Let's do that thought experiment, that we had done that very, very step by step on the 26th. So let's think back for two weeks: all meters in green, very few hospitalizations, everything is in the last level of risk, and that's even separate from the whole vaccination rate. So where you would have said "you can relax" without vaccination, you would not have done so, or just with a very small step, while your vaccination rate is now one of the highest in Europe. I think your Chamber would then have adopted all sorts of motions, from 'here it has to be harder' and 'there it has to be better'. That would have become some sort of Veronica Guide, "more, harder and better," really. So, of course, what we always try to do is to weigh the risks, but also, of course, how it lives, how it is, not only in society, but certainly in the Chamber: what is political support for? Then we know of course the two sides of the Chamber, where one would like to be very much stricter and the other would like to be very much wider. That is true, of course, but what we are heading for is on the large, broad middle, which says: all things considered, with our advisers, we consider this to be logical and responsible, and we come to that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u455	It's not about harder, it's about more responsibility. That's all I care about. I didn't think it was justified at the time. I often wonder if I shouldn't have been a little brighter in the debate then, because something also told me: this is too much, this is really asking the gods, this is just going to go wrong. It has gone wrong now, so my question to you remains the next one. I don't know that you wouldn't, as Volt would like, send for infections. You're gonna keep steering on hospital capacity. Of course, we regret that. But when are you going to turn your strategy into sending out infections when the signals are red?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u456	We're not going to do that in absolute terms. Of course not, because then you would really change your strategy. Then the measures you have to take to make that happen would also be so universal that anyone who would really see it as disproportionate would really be so. If under the current conditions you close the entire catering business, close the entire shop, the curfew, everything we've done... that would certainly help to get the infections down, no doubt. Only, the social costs and the actual costs too, so the economic damage you do with them, are so renowned that you can't afford it at all. We shouldn't do that at all. That's not the society we want. We don't do that in case of flu. Every year we have a lot of flu infections. That's annoying, very annoying. But because that doesn't burden the care, at least in most years at least, in such a way that other operations have to be postponed completely and so on, you can afford it. But, of course, we're far from there. We are only there when there is an endemic situation. We're not there. So we will need measures, but they must be proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u457	Can you talk a little less into the microphone? Then you're clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u458	Sure. Like this? It's easier for me, too, actually. You give answers like it's black and white. I'm just looking for the stable gray tint of measures, so that we can still have a cup of coffee on the terrace things, but society doesn't go completely into lockdown again. I think all 150 MPs agree with you: no one liked that lockdown. So what we're looking for is a second or a third gear, which means that until the world is vaccinated and the danger has finally passed, we're going to come out of here with minimal material and immaterial damage. That's what I'm looking for. I would ask you, then, what are you going to do to ensure that we keep moving in the second or third gear in order to get out of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u459	If you really take the end point that the whole world has been vaccinated, then you have arrived in 2022. I think you're overestimating our perseverance. That has been put to the test in the last year and a half. There's no need to do that either. I'm in favour of looking at the proportional weighting over and over again. So that's what we did last Friday. Of course we could have said: 37% of the infections in the catering industry, restaurants closed. But we deliberately didn't do that because of the reason you mention, namely: can there please be a gray hue and can we see what can be done? Well, what we can do is just a half a mile in the hospitality business. It's possible. That does require a sense of responsibility from all of us, namely that we actually keep the 1.5 meters and do not do so only at the moment when Uncle Agent comes around the corner. This also requires a sense of responsibility from the hospitality industry. Well, we've seen for the past two weeks that we can ruin it for each other, too. It's possible. So let's not do that. Let us indeed use that 1.5 meters as a basis, until we are sufficiently protected: either because we have been vaccinated or because we have experienced the infection to such an extent that we have built up antibodies along that path. If we're sufficiently protected, we can do more. I very much agree with that, but that does not mean until the whole world is vaccinated. That's such a crazy perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u460	Your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u461	That does not seem to me to be a perfect prospect, because as long as the world is not sufficiently vaccinated, there is a chance that there will be a variant that our vaccines will not be able to cope with. Then Corona is laughing at us again and the pandemic begins from the beginning. I would ask you to give everyone the following: until the world is vaccinated, we are not definitively safe. 80% of the Dutch believe that the measures should be reinforced again. I think a lot of people understand what it's like and that this is a whimsical virus. I would ask you, however, to call for support and the capacity to last longer. I think a lot of people find that gray, whatever can still be respectable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u462	Sure, sure. By the way, his opinion polls on what should be as erratic as the virus itself, so I do not think that can be quite the measure of things either. We're gonna have to weigh it up over and over again. That's the complicated part. But I fully agree with you that we need to move on for a little while now and make sure that we are a little further on building up our degree of protection. We will have to look at what can be done step by step over and over again and we will have to do everything we can to help the rest of the world to get itself vaccinated as quickly as possible. In the Netherlands, we have to talk to the people sitting at the table every day at every kitchen table and at every restaurant table where we find ourselves and say: let yourself be vaccinated, for your own health, for each other's protection and to regain the freedoms that we have missed so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u463	Mrs Westerveld's last question from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u464	I have an addition to what Mrs. Kikkie said. I find the imaging a bit annoying sometimes. The cabinet sometimes pretends that there was a package of measures that we all voted in favour of as a Chamber, but of course that was not the case. On the 18th, relaxations were announced. At the next press conference we received a letter containing the OMT opinion and then the Chamber had a debate and tabled a number of motions. Also in the weeks after that we have asked critical questions a number of times, for example about testing for access and that everything went wrong during that first weekend. I would like to ask the cabinet what is actually going to change in communication, because that has, of course, gone badly in recent weeks. It is not just a question of the measures that are laid down on paper. It's also a matter of communicating. I call it "dancing with Janssen" and the song of Minister Grapperhaus. These are all matters on which we have not voted in the Lower House or had a debate. We didn't say "communicate," but you can dance with Janssen. But that has of course played a huge role in the imagery. My specific question is: after the last few weeks, what is going to change in concrete terms in the form of images? How is the cabinet going to give concrete expression to the urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u465	First of all, let me repeat what I said about this. What seemed justified at the time was simply an error of assessment. That's how the cabinet sees it and how the cabinet reflects on its own actions. We did not have the strongest press conference in our series last Friday, which is why we felt it necessary to do it again last Monday, because, of course, that reflection was rightly requested by the journalists present. That was the reason for the reflection we gave there and that we give today. We do so here in all openness and honesty, where the chambre de réflexion usually meets. Therefore, this is a suitable setting. But there may also be something of reciprocity in it, if I may afford it in the direction of Mrs Westerveld. As Mrs Westerveld points out, the cabinet has received opinions with all kinds of perspectives. On the basis of these opinions, we come to a package. Then we'll put that whole package in front of the Chamber. The Chamber has the possibility, through the Twm, to vote that package away. It has happened that a group has voted against a proposal. The Group of the Party of Labour did so the time before. Then we took a step in the open plan and said to Mrs Kuik: I do not think that is justified, so I am voting against it. It's possible. That's just become an opportunity with the Twm. The Chamber has said that we want to fulfil our co-executive responsibility or our controlling role. So it's not like... Yes, the cabinet has come to that reflection. The cabinet has also made an important error of assessment. That's what we said. But it's not like the cabinet has the responsibility and the rest is free. Of course, it doesn't work that way. We are putting forward a package and that package can be voted down. We are laying down all the opinions openly on the measures we are proposing. And at the end of the day, the Chamber is in charge. It always is, and it always is here. Again, that's not a reproach. Let us at least say that we then did so in committee. We have, of course, proposed these measures on the basis of all the opinions. We also defended them in the debate on the basis of all these opinions. In short, it was our decision. We are primarily responsible and also ultimately responsible. We're not running away from that. What are we gonna do? Well, for example, we're gonna improve working with tickets, because we've seen in the last two weeks that that didn't work. I think Mrs Westerveld doesn't like it, but I'm going to ask her to do some reflection on that point too. For it was precisely Mrs Westerveld who said, when she dealt with the law, what she was for, that she could not add self-tests to it? I don't think that would have improved the situation in the last two weeks. In short, we all have to do that reflection. Really, that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u466	I'm giving Mrs Westerveld the opportunity to reflect on that as well, because you're addressing her directly. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u467	On the contrary, my point was not that everything that is happening now is all the result of policy, but that it is also partly the result of communication. There has been communication and the atmosphere seemed a bit: well, we can all go again; go ahead. Of course, that is not something we in the Chamber are officially voting on or doing anything else about. That is indeed so communicated by the cabinet, where all smart people are in it and around which they really think about words, about what is going to be said and what is not going to be said. So that's my question. How is the cabinet going to communicate that it really has to be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u468	I think we did that at least last Monday, better than last Friday. Mr Rutte has just taken on board a number of suggestions which we will be putting forward again next Monday. In any case, we want to continue all summer on the Mondays. We have several administrative consultations or transfer directors with the most involved directors per week. On Mondays we also want to connect a communication moment to that. In addition, let us advise ourselves. I don't promise it'll only go flawless in the next few weeks. Things are gonna go south someday. But, indeed, communication matters and communication contributes to that. If we had known where we would be today, we would of course never have used the joy that has occasionally been used, so to speak. Of course, that's part of the reflection. In communication we will occasionally make mistakes, but it is quite a complicated subject. Well, I think we have a pretty complicated subject together, but we're doing our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u469	I understand we're going to the cup later. But I still miss some answers to my questions. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u470	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u471	I had asked what is the status of the vision of a society with covid, rather than continuing to focus on a society without covid. Another question was how many people and of what age are those, especially those with covid in the hospital and on the ic. Another question was how many people are included in the covid recordings that have secondary covid, so they have a different condition but are eventually tested and appear to be infected. And how many covid patients were vaccinated? I understand by now that that is 14%, I think, but the supplementary question was: what vaccine have these covid patients had?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u472	I believe that these are also a number of questions for the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u473	We work together so smoothly as a team that I got those questions answered by my colleague right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u474	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u475	I can respond. If you will allow me, Mr President, I am going to use this moment to finish the block on the epidemic, which I have already answered a number of questions about. That was the block between tickets and travel. Well, then we were right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u476	I would like to ask the Minister to answer the questions sec, so without an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u477	Yeah, I'd love to. At the moment there are 74 covid patients on the ic and 138 covid patients in the clinic. According to the LCPS, most of the patients aged between 50 and 70 are still enrolled on the ic. Many elderly people are also in the clinic, but there the proportion of patients under 30 is slowly increasing. It is not known how many of the intakes of covid patients are primary or secondary covid contamination. I hear that this question is sometimes asked on the assumption that a patient will then be brought in for something else, that it will then be labelled as a covid patient and that this will apparently be used as a reason to take further action. So there's some kind of conspiracy-like thought behind it that you don't mean, but that I sometimes hear, from the suggestion: do they actually come in with covid, or do they come in hit by a car and then turn out to have covid? We do not keep track of whether it has been a primary or secondary infection, but you can assume that if we label 74 patients on the ic and 138 in the clinic, those are patients who have been admitted for covid reasons. Then the vaccinations. Having an insight into the vaccination status of people who are admitted to the hospital with covid is of great importance. On 13 July, during the technical briefing, RIVM indicated that there is no direct link between the source systems at the moment, so we cannot get a clear picture of it. But a Kuzu motion has been adopted, which I have also wholeheartedly supported, in order to get that view in that way. Right now we're just calling hospitals every now and then. As a result, we also know that most of the patients who have been admitted have not been vaccinated and some have had the first shot. Completely vaccinated patients are either not at all or almost not present. So we are going to set up this link between the source systems in a good way, so that we can also give these answers automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u478	Let me see if you have answered all of Mrs van der Plas' questions now, because that might be useful. And then I give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u479	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u480	Yeah? You've answered everything? Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u481	Well, I don't think the question has yet been answered about the status of the long-term vision of a covid society. Because I really think we should go there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u482	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u483	So I like to get a vision of a society with covid. I hear a lot of saying here that the virus must be contained and eliminated, but I think that is a utopia. So I'm just curious about that. Is that being worked on and what's going on with that? I also understood, but I would like to take a look at Mr Paternotte because I may have misunderstood that 14% of the people admitted to the hospital have been vaccinated. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u484	Well, that's... I tweeted that this morning, so I'll use my own tweet as a fact check.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u485	Always handy, Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u486	This is about the infections. 84% of the number of infections over the last week had not been vaccinated, 10% had been partially vaccinated and 6% had been fully vaccinated. But in that last category, we don't know how long after the second shot it was. So that's what we know about the infections of the last week. As far as hospitalisations are concerned, the figures are still different, and that is in fact entirely in line with the knowledge we have from the clinical trials.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u487	Maybe it would be nice if you... the first question is answered, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u488	Yes, of course, I have answered that first question quite often and very regularly in letters and debates: yes, in the end we are of course on our way, hopefully at least, to a situation where the virus will get endemic status in our country and in the world. That means that you will still be sick of it, but that it doesn't work out as disruptively on the occupation of care as it has done in recent times. Why can we get there? Thanks to vaccination. But are we there yet? No, not by a long shot, because we really still have quite a transitional period to go. That's the exciting thing about the time we're in. We're no longer in the alarm phase we're coming out of, the epidemic phase with the huge outbreak risks we had. But we certainly haven't landed in a safe haven yet, witnessed the last two weeks. The contagion rates are now very high, but the problem is going to arise at the moment when these contagion rates go through the generations and the neighbourhoods. Then we really have a problem with each other. Then you'll see that hospital admissions are starting to get a lot worse. We don't know how that's gonna work out yet. That's what we're all gonna find out in the next few days. But we're really not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u489	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u490	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I do consider this to be a question that is not answered properly. It may also be that the Minister misunderstood me. What matters to me is that I have indeed asked this question many times before. It is that we must have a long-term vision of a society with covid. 'Cause how are we gonna do that when the virus just stays between us forever? I think we should all assume that. So how are we going to decorate society? Are we gonna keep scaling up and scaling up? Or will there be generic measures? I don't know. I'm just asking the question. I mean, that vision, so not that bite snap vision that there are one time more infections, then less, and then we're gonna see what we're doing. That's one. I will finish my question at once, because then the Minister can answer at once. I also said that I would like to know what vaccine the people who have had either in hospital or have been tested positive or infected. I think you can get those numbers straight up. Because it is known which vaccines people receive, at least, from people who register. So I'm gonna put those questions down for a while. They may also be answered in the second period. I just want to respond: I really don't see it as a conspiracy theory, really. That's not my point at all. I'm absolutely not conspiracy thinking, but I just want clarity. That's why I'm asking for facts and figures, because then I just know what they are. If I don't have it, then I can't control my own thoughts or the own decisions I take here or not when I vote, or whatever. That's all I care about. That has nothing to do with conspiracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u491	Clear. You made your point very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u492	That is why I say: the recording figures that are being communicated are those of the people who lie there because they have corona. Otherwise, they would probably not have been registered as such, but as a "car accident." That's one. Two is that the clutch isn't there right now. We can probably be the first to be able to see to what extent the people who are in the hospitals have been vaccinated or not. What we know about this now is that it does not actually prevent them from being people who have been fully vaccinated and where the vaccines have been fully incorporated. Actually, that doesn't happen. Maybe it's just a few. It happens occasionally in people with one shot. But in fact, most of the people currently in hospital are not vaccinated. And they're still people between 50 and 70 years old. So what people are they talking about? The people who didn't choose vaccination. That is the reality. This will increasingly be the reality. We see that there are also a number of people on the regular beds who are not between 50 and 70, but grab it around 30. Of course you can. Especially with a very high level of infection, there can always be a single person who does indeed have a serious course of covid infection. In large numbers of infections, that's possible. But then the most important question. If I remember correctly, you asked that question in the previous debate. Let me try to respond as consistently as possible, including in this debate. Now that we are right to be in this transitional phase, we need to re-determine the criteria on which we are taking action, and we also need to re-define what measures are appropriate to the indicators. We shouldn't want to change the targets. I think that is an important point from Mrs van der Plas and I share it. Protecting vulnerable people and protecting them from overload continue to be our main objectives, of course in the context of no unnecessary social damage. These remain our main objectives. We will therefore review our roadmap, because we do see that the indicators to steer change. The hospitalizations remain very important. But the way in which contagion rates, such as pre-announcement of the number of hospital admissions, relate to those admissions, becomes different. How different, we have to find out. In the summer we take the time to look with our advisors and the Security Council at what the measures look like. They're outbreak-oriented anyway. If there is a major outbreak in a slaughterhouse or in a catering establishment, then the GGD must of course do so with source and contact research, with testing and with the spray can. But when are you going to take measures like we had to do last Friday? We can move quickly if we need to, but I have to come back to how we are going to resume this in a new roadmap in September. For the transitional phase, we will learn lessons for the Roadmap from what we can learn nationally and internationally. That applies to the transitional period. By the time an endemic phase would have been reached thanks to vaccination, we will not have to take any more national measures, except, for example, an annual vaccination programme. I can, but I don't know yet. I could, but I can't see that right now. First of all, we will have to review our roadmap for the transition phase. That's what we'll be talking about in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u493	Mrs van der Plas had the question of what vaccination the people in the hospital have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u494	I already answered that question: you can't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u495	Okay. Fine. We're gonna finish this part now, and we're gonna move on to the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u496	Yeah, I'll come on the trips. Mr Wilders' question, and indeed Mrs De Vries', is the question that I think we all have: what influence does all this have on our travels? First of all: ECDC is an independent institute and simply creates its own colour codes. It is indeed an agency of the European Commission, but it makes its own colour codes. On the basis of these colour codes, national Member States themselves have the power to take travel measures. Those entry measures are national competences under the colour codes. There has been a recommendation from the Council, which is a recommendation from the European Council to the Member States to act. But that's not mandatory. What we have to do about this is to have very close contact with all my colleagues in the cabinet, and they again with all their counterparts in the holiday countries to which many Dutch people go is to find that we have the contamination rates. We understand that you are looking at this with some concern, but we are also seeing those contagion rates rise in the rest of Europe. At the heart of our policy is the policy of the whole of Western Europe: how do we prevent vulnerable people from being unprotected and how do we prevent them from becoming overburdened? So shouldn't we let the rising vaccination rate that takes us where we want to be, namely that we protect our vulnerable people and protect our care in all the Member States, be far more important than the infection rates? That's our conversation with our colleagues. All colleagues are reacting in the same way: we understand that the discussion that is taking place in the Netherlands is also taking place in our country. But we're also a bit on unknown ground. We also see that with the rising hospital rates you are not quite comfortable, look at England. Colleagues react calmly in a way and do not panic by saying that the borders should be closed to the Dutch, not at all. But everyone is going to follow the figures as is happening in other countries. So there is no automatism between getting red or dark red from the Netherlands on the ECDC card. That gives you confidence. It's the intention of many countries to double vaccinated with a two-week waiting period with the CoronaCheck app, or if you've been tested negative, just let people go on vacation in that country, even if you're red. But we are also going to rethink what is going to happen in Europe. That makes us saying to our colleagues: do not do it alone. That is what Mr Keijzer does with tourism, that is what Grapperhaus does with his colleagues on JenV, and that is what Mr Kaag does with regard to foreign affairs. And if it's really necessary, the Prime Minister will do it to his colleagues. If necessary, we are all ready to ensure that the borders for Dutch people remain open during the holiday periods. But each country goes beyond its own borders, as Mr Wilders will address.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u497	Are you at the end of the trip?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u498	I had some more about Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u499	Then I give the floor to Mr Wilders. Are you at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u500	Except for testing on Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u501	Okay, if you'd like to wrap that up, there are a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u502	Returning travelers we would like to test. We do this with the airports by agreeing with the points of entry that there is intensive communication about the need to test you, and to underline that and to make it easier to pass self-tests. That's what they started today at Schiphol. That is what we are working on with great enthusiasm. Both Schiphol and Kennemerland and the other airports will do so. Last time we talked about whether we could also offer a test street in addition to the self-test. We talked about P4 and whether Mrs De Vries could get there on her stilettos. There is something to settle between Schiphol Airport and P4, but I know that your wish is to provide a test street at Schiphol Airport. Schiphol itself hesitates very much. I get that too: before you know it, you'll get a huge congestion of passengers at Schiphol Airport. It's a lot more travelers than last year. Now you will say that that only increases the need for such a test street, but we do so through the self-test. We will continue with Schiphol and Kennemerland to see how we can accommodate that wish. I understand your desire to make it as easy as possible, but we have not yet found a really good solution. But as soon as we have it, I will be happy to inform Mrs De Vries and Mr Paternotte. Then test it to get away. That was JA21's question: testing before departure. A considerable test capacity has been built up there. There have been some troubles with the labs and that means that one has had to wait a little too long for a result. That is, of course, a problem and that is why these providers are assured of it. Of course, that only helps half. You can get something of your expenses back, but of course you'd rather just go on the plane. I hope it's start-up problems. We are working very hard to prevent this from occurring more frequently than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u503	Thank you. I call Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u504	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. When I sum it up in my own words, he says we don't have that much control over that ECDC. Well, that's not really gonna change anything. The cabinet is now trying to do it directly with its counterparts in the countries. My first question is about the ECDC. Is it really not possible, because that would be the fastest solution to influence them anyway so that they also look at vaccination and hospitalizations and not just at infections? And are you alone in this, or are you able to support it with other countries that are members of the ECDC and the European Union? That's my first question. My second question is: how do we know the results of your proposal, which in itself does not seem unsympathetic, that you are going to approach your counterparts and the countries of the European Union to do so? Moreover, I would like to ask whether anyone other than yourself can call Mr Orbán and not Mr Rutte, because that will keep Hungary closed for a very long time. Maybe you can still try. But how do we know that? How do Dutch people know if they can go to France or Spain? We all know that there is a good chance that the Netherlands will turn red tomorrow. If you look at the figures that are only about infections, unfortunately there is also a good chance that next week or the week after that we will color dark red. Those two-week averages don't look good. I understand it gets dark red at 85,000. I can hardly see how we can avoid that. That would be next week. For countries red and dark red also makes a difference. There is also a hurry, because a lot of people have booked their holidays after a difficult year. They're going with the family; they've saved up for it. Again: not the country they are going to is on red, after which they could get money back from the insurer, but the Netherlands is on red. Then it is exactly as you say: then other countries decide what Dutch people should do. But there are millions of Dutch people who may still be on the road. When will they know where they stand and what the consequences of your efforts and the whole cabinet for all these countries, Spain, France and Germany? People are watching TV now and thinking, can I go or can't I go? And what does it mean if in a week's time the Netherlands might turn dark red? How do you ensure that the information to the Dutch is in order and that they are not somewhere at the border or in a country and are suddenly in quarantine or have to go home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u505	A very fair question. I understand that very well. That's why we've been working with the website schoopreis.nl for a while. It provides the very latest information known to us each time. That is the way we inform all travellers. We've been saying for a while: look at that and keep looking at it, right before you leave and also when you come back, at the moment when the country where you happen to be on vacation comes in color. All this can happen in the coming period. That is one and that is very important. The second is the effort that we are very keen to make, namely that with all those holiday countries, popular holiday countries like Hungary I do not know if it is in the list, but go ahead and check it out bilaterally to explain what the situation is in the Netherlands, what we are doing to ensure that these infections are under control again and that we are not in the situation in the Netherlands that our hospitals are going crazy. We also point out to them the increasing vaccination rate, although for those countries it will be much more decisive how things stand with the vaccination rate and with the pressure on care. I see the will of all countries to ensure that borders remain open for vacation. Freedom of movement is also worth something. That's what we agreed on. Two. Countries are also a little concerned about what is happening, with rapidly rising contamination rates: we were just off and are we actually far enough vaccinated? The Netherlands really is a bit more vaccinated than most European countries. They are wondering: are we already sufficiently protected that we can afford to let those Dutch in or to let those Spaniards in because they are of course also on red... or to let those English in? The tendency I now see among colleagues is to try to keep free movement open. In the direction of Mr Wilders, I say that I cannot give a guarantee. I can guarantee our commitment, but not the result. That's why we say to everyone: keep looking at zoekopreis.nl. One more thing about ECDC. ECDC is indeed an independent institution. I think we should keep it that way. What they're actually doing is taking the photo we ordered. Namely, make us an epidemiological map of Europe. That's one. Two. We also asked for the vaccination rate. Yes, they can, and they do. On ecdc.nl is the vaccination tracker. It shows the vaccination rate of the various Member States. For some reason, I look at it three times a day. In addition, there are the hospital rates. They're a little harder to compare, because the care systems are different. In any case, vaccination rates are used. Its translation into policy is up to Member States themselves. They do so partly on the basis of the Council recommendation. My plea to colleagues is therefore to amend that Council recommendation. They say that we should indeed do so, but the Netherlands is still a little more eager than colleagues. But the summer's still young.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u506	Thank you. Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u507	That's right. Finally. There's a rush to do this. The Netherlands will soon be on red and perhaps next week on dark red. How's it going in all these capitals? They all have parliaments and people who put pressure on ministers, just like we did, with: should we still receive those people from India and England? There will therefore be enormous pressure in those countries to ensure that their inhabitants are as safe as possible. You can't blame them for that either. People often don't know that our hospitals are empty and that the population that gets infected is mostly young people. That is quite apart from what you rightly say, namely that we have a high vaccination rate by now. Those are all things that argue in our favor, but red is red. Of course, the best thing would be that the ECDC would look more closely at vaccination rates and hospitals, and that we wouldn't even come on red or dark red. Because we're not a country that comes on dark red because we almost have code black in hospitals. Then I'd understand. So my question is: can you see with allies within your party and with the European Union so beloved in the cabinet if there is anything left to settle? And if it isn't, please be quick with all of you. If we stand on red, the mechanism will work. Red is, what are we gonna do with these Dutchmen? Well, then you must have called all of them by now. Then you must have already had your counterpart on the phone. Otherwise, it's gonna go wrong. A lot of Dutch people are waiting for that. So my question to you is, first of all, whether you can do something through the ECDC. And if not, we can then via the website opreis.nl, or whatever it is called...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u508	Wijsopreis.nl, of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u509	Wijsopreis.nl Very important; everyone has to look at that. Is that website being updated every day? How can we see the results of your work? A lot of people at home are asking: do I have to go to France or not? Can I still go to Italy on Monday? Can Tuesday my trip to Greece, with a ticket or by car, continue? They're not going to look at that website all the time on the way. How do you ensure that this is updated so that people have certainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u510	The website remains as up-to-date as possible. It is updated every time with the very latest information. We're getting that information from our own embassies there. They shall always translate the measures taken by the Member State concerned. We try to keep the information up-to-date as best we can. That's the responsibility of the State Department. We know it's a very widely used and very appreciated website. Apart from the website, you can also install the Reisapp. You can have the Travel App update via push messages, so that you are up-to-date again and again. That's what people have to do. That's the perspective for people themselves. What we have to do as a cabinet is indeed to be on the line with our colleagues all day long to explain where the Netherlands is and to say that we would like to spend our savings for the past one and a half years with them. But we have to be allowed in. Then at least the first answer will be: you are welcome if you have a DCC. This means that the people here either vaccinated that way leave with a waiting period of fourteen days; let me say that they leave either tested. Which exact requirements are there, you can also find in the Reisapp. The second thing our colleagues will say is that we are going to watch it very closely. We understand that, and that makes sense. It could perhaps also be said that the Netherlands should therefore look at its own travel policy. If that's the case, I'll be back in the room. Because the Dutch travel policy is that you have to quarantine in dark red, whereas it is not currently in Spain and Italy, and not in any country. At least, in most European countries, that is not the case. In short, perhaps we should look at that as well. Take the travel advice, for example. If I ask the Spaniards if the Dutch can please just come to Spain, then perhaps Spain will say that we also need to change our own travel advice towards Spain: if you are all so horribly vaccinated in Holland then just come to Spain. Those are conversations we're having. They'll say it much more diplomatic than I do right now, but that kind of conversation could be on the table. If it's on the agenda, I'll report back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u511	I thank the Minister, also for mentioning very often zoekopreis.nl, a website that has been very improved, I think. Congratulations to all the people who are working hard on it. At the same time, I hear non-stop people making holiday plans: what happens when the Netherlands shoots red and we are on our way, or what happens when we sit there in the next few weeks and the Netherlands shoots dark red? This is precisely where the uncertainty is high and the website offers much less answer, because it is based on the current colour codes. Somewhere that can be understood, but it is also very complicated for people to estimate how to view it. There are people who always see life positive and who just go on the road. The minister might know them. There are also people who are very insecure about it. I would like to ask them to make an effort to do so, so that there is a little more clarity. For example, for Europe, you can expect this globally. That would help a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u512	I understand that very well. That uncertainty doesn't help people. If people really don't want any uncertainty in life, they just have to book a cottage at the Heihaas holiday park in Putten. I think that's the surest thing you could do in life. That's one. Two. If you want a little more living on the edge, I would always look at zoekopreis.nl and assume that those countries, when they make a decision, always apply a transitional period. The current travel advice, which is on zoekopreis.nl, is really the current travel advice that you have to take on at the time, but you have to relate to changing circumstances. What, for example, could apply? Count on it that you need the DCC, so being fully vaccinated when you go on vacation is a really great idea. Or make sure you make a test voice on time, also a super good idea. It's okay to assume that you have to relate to that kind of thing. If the colour code goes far in the country where you are, so where you are on holiday, it may be that there are additional requirements before you can come back to the Netherlands. That's what you have to relate to when you go camping in France or when you go camping in Italy. Once you get there, that's not the most exciting thing that can happen. Then you can also relate and otherwise you can always call the helpdesk in the Netherlands, with the ANWB and with everyone to advise you. I think this is going to be all right for an enterprising people like us. I cannot rule out or prevent those changes. The only thing I can do, as I have just said to Mr Wilders, is to ensure that not only myself but also my colleagues are talking to their counterparts. We already are. Yesterday, Sigrid and Ferd had contact with their colleagues. I've called some of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u513	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u514	And if I'm not in a debate with you, I'm on the phone with colleagues abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u515	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u516	Mr President, I have not yet touched on all my interruptions, but you are well aware that they will not all be at this point. I'd like to ask the Minister something. He explained it very well, and it's great that he's getting in touch with colleagues. But now just taste the feedback in here, very quiet and in all kindness. When people look at that site, they don't find it easy what happens when the code passes. In fact, the minister gives a very reassuring answer for most Dutch people who are travelling and it is time to find out how you deal with the uncertainty for the Dutch who are still here and want to go. But he already knows exactly how to act for Spain when the Netherlands shoots at dark red. At least he gave that example. If he, or the people at the State Department, knows that about countries, mention that on the website: this is the roadmap that this country has proposed. If there isn't, then it's clear. Just let me know how it's done. I think the Minister can do that very well. He doesn't have to explain it to me again, because I'm sure the Minister knows it all. But I think it is important that Dutch people who want to go on holiday and have that uncertainty, find the way things stand and what it means just as easily and in clear language on the site.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u517	I understand that very well. I am going to ask Mrs Bikker for a little understanding, because sometimes I do not know what the consequences are either. An example. Yesterday I called Roberto Speranza, my highly esteemed colleague in Italy, for the whole crisis. It has simply said that this is currently the travel policy in Italy; we do not currently have a quarantine obligation for intra-EU; we do so for India, the UK, Brazil and so on, but not for intra-EU; that is our line at the moment. He also said that it may well be that this will change in the near future, but that he has no intention of doing so at the moment. But he can't completely rule it out either, for example, if the development in the next few weeks in the UK or in the Netherlands, but let's hope this doesn't happen. He said: then, of course, my parliament will be restless, and it may well be that I am being asked to impose further restrictions on red or dark red countries within the EU. But, he said again, I have no intention of doing so now. How can I display this on the website wijopreis.nl? I don't think so. I can only say that these are the current travel rules; if they change in other countries, they change here too. That's what we can communicate right now. Otherwise, maybe I'm gonna make people a little happy with a dead sparrow. Of course, I can't do that. So what I think we should do right now is just communicate the current travel policy, knowing that things could change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u518	There's one more block, the block of vaccination. I'd like to ask the Minister to wrap that up, because I really want to go to dinner break. I'm just asking him to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u519	Vaccination. It has been said by more parties, and I very much agree that the degree of vaccination, its level and its homogeneity, i.e. in every neighbourhood and group, will ultimately help us. You could be very comfortable about that if you look at the surveyed vaccination readiness. It has now risen to 89% and that is also very high internationally, but I do not know whether it will actually become reality everywhere in every age group. We see at this moment that a single time slot is also beginning to fall free. This also has to do with the fact that vaccination readiness and the actual choice of vaccination sometimes also take time for people. That doesn't make any sense. People want to be properly informed. But as the age of the people you invite is lower, it also gets harder and harder to convince them in a good way. The injury in disguise of the past week is of course that people see because of the increasing level of infection that the virus is not yet gone and can house. They have also seen that if you are vaccinated, the chances of you getting infected are significantly smaller than the chances of getting infected are not zero, but significantly smaller. In short, that is an additional motivation to proceed with vaccination. But none of that is going to happen on its own. Mrs De Vries asks what we all do on this point. First of all, we monitor very well. We monitor the actual vaccinations in the CIMS and the actual willingness to vaccination in the agreement line. We're also linking that to data on neighborhoods. For example, we can derive from this what that means for the target groups. We know that vaccination is lagging behind some target groups, which means that you have to make extra efforts for those target groups. Part of that commitment is national, when it comes to age groups. The communication aimed at young people is mainly national. But you can't do part of the communication nationwide at all, which is really area specific. The GGD Amsterdam knows best what is needed in Amsterdam-West. It's very difficult to propagate that from here. We therefore identify a number of rural target groups for which we develop nationwide materials and so on. In addition, we have a number of regional jobs for the GGD. We try to organize it in such a way that the health services also learn from each other. So the GGD goes into the neighborhood and the GGD chooses customization. Think of pop-up locations in community centers and markets and the vaccination bus in Fryslân and in the G4. The use of key figures in the neighbourhood also works great. They also opt for flexibility. That too is something we are increasingly discovering. The phenomenon that you get the chance to make an appointment, that you then turn yourself on to call the GGD or make an appointment on corona-vaccination.nl and that you also appear on that appointment, seems to be something for old people, our kind of people. Among young people we see the more instant possibility, Mr Van Dissel would say, and that is actually much more practical. Offering the opportunity that you can get stuck somewhere, without having to make an appointment, means that you are apparently experiencing a threshold that is bad. That's what we're all learning and discovering right now. That's actually going very well, but the GGDs also need to share their own lessons and experiences with others. That is my answer to Mrs De Vries' question: target group, district-oriented and based on the analyses and monitoring we are doing. That is actually my answer to Mrs Bikker. She asks: what are you all doing now to actually get pricked by poorly accessible or hard-to-reach people? When it comes to hard-to-reach people, we really need to do it locally. The GGD's are very good.This is a special course in how to reach homeless people and how to do the communication, but also in the Bible, where you can see that the vaccinations are sometimes left behind. By the way, that is much less than we initially feared, but they are still below the average. This means that you have to take a very different approach to the neighbourhoods in the big cities. The use of the imam doesn't work very much in the Biblebelt, for example. So there are all kinds of lessons to learn, and we learn them too. We hope, of course, to achieve the highest possible vaccination rate. Is the Minister prepared to scale up mobile busses to reach young people in particular in the region? Sure, the minister is willing to do anything, but the GDs are already doing it. Fryslân is a good example and in the big cities you have some of those examples. But actually all GGDs have in any way a pop-up location or a pop-up bus. There are a lot of such possibilities. So the answer is yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u520	Are you almost at the end of your block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u521	Well, a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u522	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u523	Mr Van Meijeren asks, and others also had questions in that direction: why these young people? We have already had a very intensive debate on this. We are not going to do that all over again, but I still want to underline it one more time. That's because of the direct health gain. It is true that young people become much milder and much less ill, but it is not true that young people do not get sick. If you were to vaccinate young people, the chances of them becoming ill will be considerably reduced. That means fewer hospitalizations. In the last year of school, there were 100 hospitalizations. There were 80 cases of that inflammatory syndrome. We must also have an eye for lung covid among young people. Of course, this does not occur when young people would be much less infected. The direct health gain is therefore the first reason. The indirect health gain is perhaps even more important. Young people have suffered incredibly from interrupted school days due to an infection in the classroom. In any case, far too little school and far too much online education is not good for young people. The indirect health gains are therefore enormous for young people. In addition, there is the health benefit as a whole. The models are unbearable at that point. It's really the difference between being able to keep the R below 1 in the fall or not. That difference is the vaccination of 12- to 17-year-olds. Then of course you have to reach a fairly high vaccination rate, hence our commitment. At least you have to touch that 65%, preferably towards the 85%, but if you were to end up in the middle, at 75%, then you've actually done very well. That helps great in protecting all of us and thus also in regaining our freedom. I think that Forum should at least appeal. What does the Cabinet say to all those young people who get the vaccine to get their freedom back? We say: let yourself be vaccinated, because that is the very best way to get your freedom back. Then I come to Volt's question about scaling up vaccination capacity. We are doing everything we can to do that. In any case, we have ordered incredible amounts of vaccines for this year but also for next year. We don't expect to need all of them, and we'll donate them, too. In addition, we agree with all the initiatives that could scale up production capacity worldwide. Then there is the freedom of choice with regard to vaccines. Mr Van der Staaij pointed that out. I have had to learn over the past period that one of the hesitations of conscientious objectors is the technique used. You have the mRNA technique of Pfizer and Moderna; there is less ethical-medical objection to that. Then you have the protein vaccines; there is no huge ethical-medical objection to them. In the vector vaccines, one, AstraZeneca, uses the chimp adenovirus, but in the other vector vaccine, that of Janssen, a human cell line is used. I know there's hesitation in that. By the way, I do not think this is always right. In any case, you must give good information and freedom of choice. We now also offer this freedom of choice, because all the target groups that depended on AstraZeneca now also have the opportunity to be vaccinated with Pfizer, where these objections do not occur. 60% of the elderly aged 60 to 64 years have been vaccinated. The good thing is that yesterday's vaccination figures show that 87% had the first shot in any case. More than 60% have now been fully vaccinated. Mrs Den Haan asked that question. 87% had the first shot. When those figures weren't sharp, it was a concern if the figures weren't very behind on the rest, but they are very similar to the rest. I think this is just a compliment to the general practitioners who had to work hard for it. The people who didn't want to choose Astra already have the opportunity to choose Pfizer. Mr Wilders and I have had an intensive debate on this. If they have had the first shot, but doubt about the second shot and do not want that second shot from Astra, then you can also get that second shot from Pfizer. From 16 July an appointment can be made at the GGD. The Health Council said it's not necessary, but you're still reading a newspaper and you can have doubts as a human being. Mr Paternotte says that in the near future some time slots may fall free. That's right. We had about 1.5 million shots a week. We're now back to about 1 million pricks a week. That has to do with the deliveries that dropped back. Not all million shots are made every week, at least if we look at the extent to which the agreements, slots, are filled. That's why I say to everyone every day: make an appointment. It is necessary to make an appointment. It's possible. You're gonna be there real soon, too. That is also why we are indeed looking to shorten the interval. The first appointment I made with the GGD is that the 60- to 64-year-olds who didn't want to get their second shot from Astra can get a Pfizer prick from next Friday. We can fill some of the slots with that. As of next Monday 19 July, a new appointment will apply to the GGD, namely that a shorter interval will apply to the appointments made from then on. The target interval is now 35 days. It's gonna be 25 days. That's a good three weeks. The interval goes from almost six weeks to over three weeks. No, I have to say, from five weeks to three weeks. That's two. Three. In addition, I would actually like to give the people who already have an appointment the opportunity to bring forward their second appointment. However, we now notice that people who want to do so because of the holiday, are going to call the GGD themselves. That makes it a bit of a mess, both on the phone at the GGD as well as if the GGD and masse were going to reschedule that kind of appointments. We simply have two or three weeks, in particular, in the agenda for the next two or three weeks. That's a million second shots. If everyone's gonna call asking for the appointment to come forward, it's gonna be a mess. Here's what I want to do. First, as of next Monday, the standard is that the people who make an appointment from then on get a shorter interval. That's just the new standard. The standard interval at the GGD is 25 days. I'm still trying to figure out how to reschedule, but I'd like to say to everyone: don't call us, we call you. We'll come back to how that could be arranged. Don't call the G.D.D. yourself, 'cause it's such a mess. Then the non-mobile elderly. Mrs Van den Berg is asking for that. She asked about that last time. Fortunately, the number of people who still have to do so is very small. I find it very difficult that they haven't been long. I share that very much with Mrs van den Berg. Others said the same thing. I want this to be completed in a couple of weeks. Initially there seemed to be too little capacity at Thuisvaccine.nl. That's the company we asked to prick these non-mobile elderly people. General practitioners have the opportunity to vaccinate themselves. They can collect a drawn syringe from the GGD. Then they can drive to the people at home, put the vaccine on, and that's it. That possibility has been used about 450 times. I also agreed that general practitioners can report it to the RIVM if they are unable to do so themselves. RIVM will then make the appointment with Home vaccination to do so. Practice shows that about 1,000 people still need to be done at home and some 390 people in 200 institutions. So I think there's only one very small job to be done. That is why I am also saying that it should be possible to complete it within a few weeks. Mrs. Den Haan asked for the third shot. We'll get an opinion on that at the end of the summer. Then I'll inform your room about that. In any case, we have made an agreement with Germany to look at it together in order to learn from each other's scientific advice. I have agreed that the Health Council and the OMT will jointly advise on this in the autumn. Then it's about the booster shot in the fourth quarter. Then the Health Council will advise on the annual vaccination programme we expect to do. That was also an answer to Mrs De Vries' question, which referred to Israel. We have a whole disinformation approach. It's taking too far to list all that now. But we do a lot, for example via the website coronavaccination.nl, via the think tank disinformation, with experts in this field, via the coalition TechTegenCorona, which has a lot of tech companies in it, through the prebunken.I have learned that this is so called "famous" of all kinds of disinformation that you see coming along and by promoting a disinformation process on bad news.nl. You can't think of it that crazy or we'll do it. We also have contact with the type of companies mentioned by Mrs Gündoğan, namely Facebook. She asked how we deal with Facebook. I will also do so in consultation with my colleague, Mr Home Affairs, because I believe it is necessary to call on companies once in a while to make a contribution to countering disinformation. Finally, urge and compulsion. Mrs van der Plas said: without vaccination, you are not really part of it; we should be concerned about that. At the same time, we see that vaccination offers a possibility of freedom. We must therefore always highlight the importance of vaccination. At the same time, we made the appointment here in the Chamber in the First Chamber, and we made that agreement with ourselves as a cabinet, that we are not in favour of a vaccination obligation or an indirect vaccination obligation. In fact, we said that we should do the work with tickets in such a way that you are not required to prove that you have been vaccinated. In addition, we have set the bar very high for ourselves. That's not easy. But it is our belief that this is ultimately the best way to achieve the highest possible vaccination rate. We have to tell everyone: it's really voluntary. Some of you do this very consistently when it comes to vaccination. We must always point out that it is voluntary. It is. I will use every day of the year to convince people of the need for vaccination, but it will be voluntary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u524	Thank you. I believe that you have answered all the questions. There are still a number of people who would like to ask a question. I would like to propose that we really ask one question, which can then be answered briefly, because then we will be able to make it before 8.30 p.m. Mrs. Kuik asks what we do with questions that haven't been answered. I'd put it in the second term, if that's okay with you, otherwise we'll go on. It's good to make a point. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Paternotte for a brief question. A short answer will follow. Mr Van Meijeren, Mrs Bikker and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u525	The Minister points out that flexibility for young people is so important because they want to have that shot instantly. I'm glad there'll be more flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u526	What's your question? Just a question and then an answer. We're gonna do it a little faster, so without an introduction, if you'd like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u527	I waited until I could ask this question. So I don't want it to fall out of the sky and the Minister thinks: where did that question come from? Anyway, it's 25 days. That's really good. But if you want to make it flexible, I would say that we have to give people the space to say: I do want it within 25 days, or I want that interval to be a little wider. It'll make it easier for them to plan around their vacation. Then more people will. And then make sure that they can also be vaccinated at the place where many young people visit this summer: Schiphol. They know by now that they can't immediately dance or scramble in France, but it can still be easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u528	That's very flexible. As I said about Schiphol, I know that the GGD Kennemerland is considering whether they could actually offer a flexible option there. That's one. Two. The flexibility in the term is there anyway, but the standard is then 25 days instead of 35 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u529	Excuse me, Mr Van Meijeren, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u530	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. We agreed that we could use six interruptions in total with the rulers. I've got two left. This is a very fundamental point, namely the vaccination of children. If you say, at once between your nose and your lips, 'you may only ask one short question, without introduction', then that is your right, but now I will refrain from this interruption and then I will go into this again at a later date, because this is not a good thing to go around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u531	I respect that. An interruption is a short question or comment. Everyone has had six opportunities for a question or comment, but it takes quite a long time. So if you make a different assessment, that is fine, but you will have the opportunity to ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u532	Then I'll come back to this at a time when I have the space to use my two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u533	Yeah, I get that. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union. There's just some cleaning to be done. Apologies. Maybe you could go to the other microphone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u534	I asked some questions about the vaccinations. I will come back to the section on vulnerable neighbourhoods in the second term, because my group is really concerned about that. But the second point I asked about was the group of 60- to 64-year-olds who receive AstraZeneca, of which people in Gelderland, but also in Drenthe and Groningen, as I hear now, are still waiting for the second shot. When they call the GGD, they still get all kinds of formal answers there, while we know that that combination is still possible, even after the advice of the Health Council. Can the Minister ensure that this group is given priority and that the GGD is also aware in all these places that this more vulnerable group can obtain that second vaccination as soon as possible? With the interval, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u535	Yeah, July 16th. Plenty of places. No, but still. I know what Mrs. Bikker says. First of all, it is not the case that generic people in the provinces you mention have had to wait so long. The last GPs were delivered on 17 May. That was a really long time ago, wasn't it? We have had time, including the general practitioners, to put that second shot. Most of them have been very flexible, but I also see that a number of general practitioners have said: no, I had made that appointment, so I will leave that appointment; I do not want to change it. Well, I'm sorry about that. I'm really sorry about that. I can't see it any other way, especially for the 60- to 64-year-olds. The delivery has been done, so I can't speed it up any further, except to make an urgent appeal to all general practitioners to do so as soon as possible. Of course, that urgent apple wasn't done for the first time. We did that very intensively. That's one. Two. The people who have not yet had the second shot of AstraZeneca and who would also like to choose Pfizer have the opportunity to do so from Friday 16 July. We had to fix that. We know that there are actually quite a few time slots left open in each region to get to it quickly. So there is a good chance that the people who are concerned about this and who say "I really think I should wait too long for my GP; I'm going to call the GGD now" can get there very quickly, I think, when they call next Friday. That can only be done next Friday, because then the systems will have been reformed in that way. So the GGD does not give formal answers; the GGD simply gives the right answer, namely: next Friday 16 July we were going to do this. If the GGD is called by these people on Friday 16 July, then the GGD will probably say that they can turn up quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u536	When is it possible for anyone who wants to be vaccinated to say "like that or that vaccine"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u537	If you want Pfizer, that is actually now, except for part of the group, for them that is July 16th. But that's actually possible for everyone. But if you want AstraZeneca, for example, it's a little more complicated. But I don't think that's the issue either. So it's not a perfect freedom of choice, it's not a cafeteria at the GGD, but the freedom to choose a mRNA vaccine is at least there. I think that will remove your main objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u538	My question was very brief. It concerns me: for whatever reason. There are people who are involved for medical reasons or who are involved for ethical reasons. Once it has been said: at the end of the line there is the possibility to be able... I was actually looking for the moment when there is a completely free choice for people who want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u539	That moment has come. It had already arrived for the people between 60 and 64 who for example did not want AstraZeneca. Before that, the time had already come for us to say: people who actually would have preferred Pfizer can already go to the GGD for that. For Janssen it is a separate line of choice at all. People who want to opt for Janssen, who can choose to do so, anyone may choose to do so with informed consent. For AstraZeneca not everyone can choose. I think there is also a limited need for this. Not everyone can choose that. It's a little more complicated to settle. And for those who have already had one Astrarik but want their second shot of Pfizer, the moment has arrived next Friday. Indeed, I started very strictly: pricking what the pot buys. After that, I said, "Oh, man, it's actually pricking what's coming your way." That was the second line. And by now, there's actually just freedom of choice. It's not quite a cafeteria model. Not all choices are equally easy to realize, but if the choice happens to be a mRNA vaccine, it is quite easy to realize.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u540	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I shall suspend the sitting until 9.15 p.m. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care. And then the second term comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u541	I will give the floor to the Minister of Medical Care for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u542	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three questions remain, and I have a point I would like to give to the Chamber as a cliffhanger on a point made by Mr Van der Staaij. But let me start with the two questions about long covid, an important subject, especially for the people who hit it. Because we know that people can get long-term complaints from a COVID-19 infection, but we still don't know much about it. We know by now that you can also get long covid in case of very mild complaints. I can very well imagine that, in particular, the lack of clarity, that you do not know how long you keep those complaints, creates great uncertainty for people. That's exactly why we're doing research. We want to gain more insight. I've talked about it before. This is done by RIVM and ZonMw. RIVM is conducting research to find out more about the number of people suffering from long-term complaints after COVID-19, which are the type of complaints and whether they occur more frequently in certain people. We sometimes see that diseases are more common in certain groups. ZonMw's research looks at what happens in the body and what the risk factors are of persistent complaints. The profession is working on a multidisciplinary directive, a post-care treatment plan. Among other things, the Long Alliance and the Federation of Medical Specialists are involved. It is my hope and, given what is happening in the medical world, also my expectation, I say very carefully, that new insights quickly lead to more effective treatments for patients. In the meantime, I say to Mr Hijink, also because his party is part of the basis of the motion that led to this, various arrangements have been made and initiatives have been put in place. I refer to the conditional admission of paramedical recovery care, which has been extended until 1 August 2022. A number of amendments requested by the motion have also been incorporated. I also refer to C-support, established as early as autumn 2020, to support patients who have more than three months of complaints, with attention to aftercare. They look wider than just the medical domain, for example also at issues of work and income and the psychosocial domain. What I see in the media, in the messages that we receive, and the messages that your Chamber receives, I also understand from the contributions of Members of Parliament, is that there is a growing focus on this issue. That is also necessary, which is also important, because there is still a great deal of unknownness, including among other things in the case of arborists. I have indicated, and I will go into more detail later in response to Mrs Van Esch, how I look at that research. I also recently indicated in a committee debate to Mrs Paulusma, who came up with a ten-point plan, that I would give her a response for Princess Day. Mrs Van Esch has also tabled a motion to that effect. She wants to know more about long covid and asks: can there be a central registration point? I said in the appreciation of that motion how important it is for us to find out more about this disease, but I also indicated that it has a lot of feet in the earth if you want to set up a central registration system. Among other things, it places a great deal of burden on healthcare professionals, and I know that the administrative burden is also a very important issue for the Chamber. I indicated to Mrs Van Esch at the time that I was going to get my head straight and put it in a letter. She asks me today: "The research that is now available is voluntary. People have to sign up for themselves. Consider such a central registration system." I would like to propose to Mrs Van Esch that I inform the House of Princess' Day of her request. Because I understand, but there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it, including the administration I was just talking about. I would also like to tell the Chamber what has emerged from the RIVM investigation so far. It is on a log-in basis, but I think what we know so far from the research is already of great added value. We already have, even though it may not be representative, because people could sign up, some 2,800 people who participate. More than 1,700 of the participants had long-term complaints at the time of registration. 95% of participants had mild symptoms in the acute phase of the infection. Only 5% of the participants were hospitalised because of covid, so very interesting results come out. I would like to ask Mrs Van Esch, in answer to her question, if I can get this straight and ask her whether I can provide for a central registration system. I know that the Chamber often has questions not only about the administrative burden, but also about privacy. The same applies to the Wegiz, which I recently sent to the Chamber. There were a lot of questions about privacy back then. These are all issues that play a role in this. I can't promise that right now, but I'd like to find out and report it to the Chamber for Princess' Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u543	Thank you. Did that bring you to the end of the reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u544	At least as far as the questions about long covid are concerned. I had another question from Mr. Van der Staaij about the people in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u545	Thank you for the commitment to look further at it. In other countries such a central registration point has indeed started, so also look at how other countries have done so and to what extent this can be done in the Netherlands. This must of course be done with due regard for privacy. I still have some doubts about "before Prince's Day." The commitment in the previous debate was: I will return to it in a stand-of-business letter. I have the feeling that it has now been pushed a little further forward and I would like to know why that is the case. Prince's Day still feels pretty far away to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u546	Maybe it's good to keep those two points apart. I told Mrs Van Esch last time that I would go into long covid in the next stand-of-business letter on corona. Yeah, it's coming in August. That's not gonna happen. In addition, I appreciated her motion and said: if I may take the existing RIVM investigation for that, I can give her judgment Chamber. But now Mrs Van Esch says: I actually want more; I want to see if such a central registration point is possible. As a result of her input, I had contact with the Ministry. Because many experts are gone during the summer it is not possible for that request to be included in that letter. That's why I'd like to say Prince's Day. But the passage on long covid goes with the next stand-of-business letter anyway. Mr Van der Staaij asked: how do we support the healthcare workers? I'm glad he made that point today. Let me also say what it does to me, in addition to all the reflections that have been exchanged here today on the increase in the number of infections. I do think about the people in the care. Of course, this applies to the people in the hospital, to the ICU departments, but certainly also to the general practitioners, who indicate how busy they are now, to the doctors' assistants, to the triagists and to the staff in the hospital. We all want them to have a summer where they can recover from what they've been through. As I have said before, we have asked the professional groups themselves to think with us and to provide ideas. We said, "What is going to work on restoring your supporters? Because we can think of it, but it's about you. Map what is needed to get healthcare professionals to recover." That's important because you can't work on catching up if people haven't recovered yet. It is therefore also important for this purpose, regardless of the intrinsic value of the recovery of the people in care. With every step we take and that we have taken, it is important to include the control of the people who work in the care system in the decisions we make. Think, for example, of what we have had to develop plans to scale down care. The people are involved in that themselves. If all the dikes of Mr De Jonge, which we have talked about today, such as the sewer water, the contamination rates, the self-tests, the PCR tests and all the other tests that are there, were not to work and it would reappear in the hospitals, then of course the people there would have to be ready again. That will be a very difficult task. In the coming weeks, hospitals expect to be more crowded due to the large increase in the number of infections, but they do indicate, also because they do not yet know how big this crowd is going to be, that they are certainly able to cope with a greater influx of covid patients. But of course we are all motivated to the bone not to let it come to this. That is one of the reasons why we have taken the measures we are discussing with your Chamber today. But what if... 'cause that's what you have to do, of course. You always have to prepare for a worst case scenario. So that's what we're doing. I have already reported to the Chamber on this matter. But then, of course, we will do everything we can to continue to support the people in care, for example through Extra Hands for Care. For this autumn, Extra Hands hold a facility in the air that they can also quickly scale up, with which they are also available to match people with organizations, if needed. Then, for example, there is the grant scheme for corona jobs in healthcare, where health care organisations have made applications. That arrangement has been extended until the end of the year. I also refer to the National Care Class, where over 3,000 people have been trained in the most basic care skills. For example, we have set up a number of facilities together, in addition to a number of support facilities that are more focused on the mental well-being of the people in care. But as far as I am concerned, it is above all all on deck to prevent us from reaching that point, so that people can use this summer to work on a well-deserved recovery themselves. Mr. Chairman. I'm at the end of the questions. In response to Mr Van der Staaij's comment on the way in which the Ruijs de Beerenbrouck cabinet shaped commemoration and considered what was happening in such a pandemic, I would like to say a few words about the signals we ourselves received from society about the need for remembrance. This has also been demonstrated by a poll. We also talked about this in the cabinet. I can tell the Chamber that we want to shape this by setting up a committee that itself has a great deal of control over how such a memorial might look like, so I use some English terms 'bottum-up' and not 'top-down', not 'you will' and 'there they', but: how would you see this? So we want to set up a committee. I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible too, I suspect in mid-August. To indicate that we are also working on this is perhaps a nice conclusion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u547	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the cabinet side. I think there is a need for a second deadline. I hope it all worked out with all the motions. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u548	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope I can read my colleague's handwriting. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current system of access testing failed to organise festivals and events in a safe and responsible manner;]] [[Whereas the event sector needs a perspective for the period after 13 August;]] [[Calls on the government to test for access to events and festivals as soon as possible before 13 August, based on the lessons from the field labs in recent weeks and talks with the event sector, so that they can be organised safely;]] [[calls on the Government to provide this proposal with an OMT opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Paternotte and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1361]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u549	My second point concerns generous compensation for damage to entrepreneurs. After all, we really want to ask the government to look at the possibilities in the case of the NOW and the TVL, if necessary afterwards. Finally, the OMT opinion. A number of groups want to follow that very closely. We believe it is really important that economic aspects for entrepreneurs and welfare aspects should also be taken into account for people in the country and that decisions should be taken on this basis. The final point is working at home. I think it's kind of weird that this is being called between the nose and the lips. This must now be read through messages in the media. I really think that's a lesson we should learn. As far as we're concerned, communication shouldn't be like that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u550	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u551	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for the equestrian recognition that it went wrong, for the description of what went wrong and for the fact that lessons have been learned. I think it's very important that that's on the table. A number of movements have also been made. The homework has just been mentioned. The Prime Minister did give the impression that this was at the request of the Chamber, but I would like to say that the OMT has advised this. Yesterday, the secretary of the OMT said that it is even conditional for getting under one of the R's and for bringing the infections down. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister will take note of this and acknowledge it. The movement on ventilation in the basic communication is nice. Minister De Jonge has already written that they are also looking at CO-meters in the catering industry. That's a very nice step too. In Belgium, they have actually said very concretely: we just hang them up in all the indoor areas of the catering industry. On the terraces, they don't seem to make much sense to me. Is that what we're gonna do? I hear we're going to focus on young people much more flexibly in the vaccinations. We had a motion with the Labour Party and the PVV on vaccination at Schiphol. We have adapted it slightly and I would like to put it to the vote in a moment. I will also sign with two other motions, because it would be nice if there was a perspective for the festivals. Mr. Chairman. The last two weeks have been a very expensive lesson. Let's make sure it's learned. I am glad that the OMT will meet again this week to look at the latest figures. Let us make the summer as beautiful as possible for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u552	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u553	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for the answers given. It is good that the issue of ventilation finally, finally, finally comes high on the agenda. When will you come to the Chamber with the documents you have not read? I ask the Prime Minister to state that in the second term. I have two motions on this: one to make it a top priority and one to make it clear. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that aerogenic transmission, respiratory contamination, is the main route of contamination of corona;]] [[calls on the government to make the transition from ventilation top priority and demand the right ventilation in the catering industry, schools, businesses and shops, and to provide good advice for home ventilation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1362]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u554	That was motion one. The second motion concerns something that I think we should also vote on as a Chamber. A lot of people listen to this. The Prime Minister said it his way. Open those windows! Ventilation is, especially this summer and also afterwards, extremely important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Speaks: "Open the windows!',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1363]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u555	Mr President, I have 15 seconds left. Finally, something about the holidays. I really hope that the Minister for Health will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. I just read in the news that TUI is shutting down all flights to the Spanish islands from tomorrow for a month. This is not because the Netherlands is on red, but because Spain has put the islands on orange. For a lot of people, a lot of Dutch people, that comes as a surprise. Once again, that is a decision by Spain and TUI; I cannot blame you for that. But this kind of thing can also happen if the Netherlands immediately turns red. I just want Dutch people to be able to go on holiday and be informed about it in good time if they can't. I'd like to make another commitment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u556	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answers and for the commitment regarding ventilation. I have also indicated that I think it is important that small events should be compensated if they have already incurred costs for the period after 13 August. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the existing guarantee scheme for larger events is extended until 3 September, with the reason that uncertainty also exists in the weeks after 13 August;]] [[Whereas this uncertainty also applies to smaller events;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the additional concession events until 3 September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Aartsen and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1364]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u558	Then also a motion on the importance of the spontaneous, "instantaneous" as Minister De Jonge said, can make your appointment. This is particularly important for young people. In this case, I would say that we are coming to you this summer. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that both the vaccination rate and the spread of vaccinations are as high as possible;]] [[noting that the use of mobile puncture boxes and mobile or pop-up locations is successful in neighbourhoods where vaccination readiness is lagging behind;]] [[Whereas vaccination readiness is also lower in young people and this is due, inter alia, to large travel distances to puncture sites;]] [[calls on the government to scale up the deployment of the number of mobile pop-up buses or mobile or pop-up locations where a vaccine can be obtained without an appointment and to focus specifically on reaching young people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Aukje de Vries.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1365]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the great peak of new infections that we are seeing these days and also about the fact that, unfortunately, this is going to mean that a large proportion of young people, but also the less young ones among us, will soon be faced with long-term covid complaints. The Minister has said useful things about this, I think, but we think it is taking a very long time. People who are now sick and fear that they will be for months now need a look at treatment. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a growing group of people is dealing with long-term covid complaints and encounters various problems with their treatment and work;]] [[Calls on the Government to develop a multidisciplinary treatment offering for people with long-term covid complaints and to compensate through health insurance;]] [[calls on the government to come up with solutions on reintegration, sickness compensation and loss of income for this group of patients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Van Esch, Mr Kuik and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1366]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u560	Mr. Chairman. "Open the windows!" I think that's a wise advice. But we can also learn from the explosion of infections in two weeks. From a carefree summer to a summer full of worries! It can only be different if we really learn, because many of the proposals that are being made today have been made a year ago. Many of the basic measures we still do not have in order, such as tests for access or source and contact investigations, because people are simply flooded. Mr President, for that same reason I shall table this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the error of assessment could have been avoided;]] [[whereas the RIVM itself indicates that behavior is not now included in the modelling;]] [[calls on the Government to demonstrate that decisions on tightening or relaxing measures in the COVID-19 pandemic are based on both the OMT's opinion and on the advice of behavioral experts, and to inform the Court of Justice in good time of the consideration before decision-making,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1367]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u561	Mr. Chairman. Actually, I didn't want to file this motion. I'm just hoping for a clear commitment. My final point is that the question about mouth caps is still open. Will the request to reconsider this for vulnerable groups, hospitals and other busy areas still be submitted to the OMT? I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u562	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u563	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a motion on ventilation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona virus spreads more rapidly in poorly ventilated spaces;]] [[Considering that in August 2020 the Asscher/Klaver motion was already adopted asking the government to ensure that the ventilation systems of all schools are monitored and improved where necessary;]] [[noting that this has not yet happened or is about to happen in all schools despite the subsidy scheme in place, and the government itself indicates that adequate ventilation in all school buildings cannot be achieved before this autumn;]] [[noting that the government has made available EUR 360 million to address ventilation, of which 260 million will only be operational in 2022 and 2023;]] [[calls on the government to make the 260 million available for this year;]] [[calls on the government to take urgent action to solve ventilation problems in schools and to make an extra effort to this end this summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1368]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u564	Then the second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the extension of the guarantee scheme for events applies in principle only to festival organisers;]] [[Whereas it is vital to ensure the viability of the sector that the entire chain can be reimbursed for the costs incurred;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the entire chain in the event sector is entitled to the event guarantee scheme so that technicians, suppliers, security providers, artists and caterers are fully reimbursed for their costs;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1369]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u565	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u566	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I have made it clear that the main concern of the Christian Union Group with the increasing infections concerns in particular those who have not yet been vaccinated or who have not been vaccinated sufficiently when they would like to, or who are lagging behind in information. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the increase in corona contamination occurs to the highest extent in urban areas where vaccination rates and average health are low in some neighbourhoods;]] [[Whereas this means that residents of these neighbourhoods are more at risk of corona contamination and a more severe course of infection;]] [[Whereas GGDs can only reach groups that are difficult to reach together with municipalities, community teams, general practitioners and local key figures;]] [[calls on the government to make additional efforts with the GGDs and local partners to offer voluntary vaccination in these vulnerable neighbourhoods as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1370]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u567	I would also like to thank the Minister for the promise that the OMT will meet on a weekly basis. At the same time, my question is why the OMT opinion is not being fully followed, including with regard to the eight people. That question hasn't been answered, but I think it's very important. We're at a crossroads. As far as homework is concerned, such a commitment has now come from the cabinet, but I am much more concerned with the balance that I want to make. To be honest, I continue to find this a concern in this debate, a lesson that we have not learned enough with each other. Finally, I can only underline: open the windows wherever you are. And in Gouda, with a screen for it, because there's mosquitoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u568	Thank you. I don't think it's just there. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u569	Thank you, Madam President. In my first term, I pointed out that the corona policy is based on the great lie that all these measures would be necessary to protect our public health. When I asked for this during this debate, I noticed that the answer to this question was, with the greatest ease, a lie. What scared me is that this is happening with a shamelessness that is unprecedented. It seems as if these rulers, who are greatly damaging our society from lying, have made a second nature. In order to be able to come to the truth really well, FVD will continue to fight it until the truth comes to light, it is necessary to organise a parliamentary inquiry so that we can hear these responsible people under oath and really ask them through. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[decides to conduct a parliamentary survey on the corona policy of the Dutch government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meijeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1371]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u570	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volgt for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u571	I've got three motions, so I'm gonna have a quick talk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the relaxation of the corona measures announced on 18 June has made R-value and contamination more explosive;]] [[noting that it exposes vulnerable and (incomplete or unvaccinated) young people disproportionately to potential health risks, including lung covid;]] [[noting that the cabinet has apologized for this;]] [[Whereas we will be faced with a recurrence of the virus over and over again as long as the required global vaccination rate is not reached;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure maximum containment of the virus and thereby to minimise the level of infection;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen its constitutional duty of care, as set out in Article 22 of our Constitution, in order to minimise the risk of future outbreaks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Simons and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1372]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u572	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers and patients find it more pleasant and especially safer when oral nose masks become mandatory under the precautionary principle in health care institutions, hospitals and other places where care is provided, such as in general practitioners, dentists, etc.;]] [[Whereas they are struggling because of the lack of uniform operation of the security regions;]] [[calls on the Government to make this uniform and compulsory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1373]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u573	And then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several behavioral scientists have warned that in its reflections and opinions on the fight against the coronavirus, the cabinet has not taken sufficient account of the aspect of behaviour among the population;]] [[Whereas the aspect of behavior of combating the corona crisis is essential in the control or containment of (the spread of) the virus;]] [[calls on the Government to give more weight to the opinions of behavioral scientists in its considerations and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1374]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u574	Thank you. I would ask you to stick to the time from now on, because you didn't really have time for the third motion. It's recess now, so I'll give you the opportunity, but I'll be happy to do it in time. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u575	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. It's good that ventilation gets more attention in the future. Secondly, I agree with the comments of the VVD on working at home. I thought things were a little messy this way. In any case, it was not clear to me that a majority of the Chamber asked for it. It was a comment from a number of political groups. I think it would be a good idea to look again at the mid-August review. I can also imagine that it fits in with a phased approach to make the choice that the cabinet made earlier, to give a little more space there. Nor should it be the case that, if there is a higher contamination due to festivals or discotheques, companies suddenly face additional measures. That's the second point. Finally, I had asked about support for companies about entrepreneurs who could just fall between shore and ship. The Prime Minister might come back to that in the second term. I also saw in the letter that a further letter was being discussed, for example, for pop stages. If it were taken with that letter, I'd be happy with that, too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u576	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK. The Den Haan Group has signed off on account of private circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u577	Mr. Chairman. I thank the directors for the answers they have given in the first term. I'm gonna change things for a change today. I shall not table any motions today, but I shall read out two motions which have already been tabled by the Chamber. I do not want to say that we have been the only group in the Chamber that has stressed the importance of aerogenic transmission in a distant past. A number of other colleagues have done the same. The debate today has led to the need to open the windows. On September 2, 2020, a motion from Azarkan: asks the government to consider how good ventilation can play a greater role in the corona strategy to be implemented. The VVD, the CDA, D66, GroenLinks, the SP, the PvdA, the Christian Union, the Party for Animals and the SGP voted against. A second motion of 5 January 2021: "calls on the Government to recognise the aerogenic transmission character of SARS-CoV-2 and then to adjust its policy accordingly'. A roll-call vote. Who voted against? The VVD, D66, the CDA and the Christian Union. Nevertheless, it is a good thing that this decision is being taken today and that it is really going to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u578	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the messengers, who are here again in the recess. They too might have wanted to do something else tonight. So thank you very much for that. Then there's the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that testing for access did not prevent many infections;]] [[noting that testing for access costs hundreds of millions of euros;]] [[calls on the Minister to stop testing for access immediately and to invest the money saved in hospital care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to provide financial assistance to the affected event organisers;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to compensate 100% for the damage suffered by all the organisers affected, without exception, including those of village festivals and the like, even if more than the amount reserved has to be allocated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the number of people tested positively despite vaccination;]] [[invites the Cabinet to provide an overview of the number of people vaccinated per age group tested positively on COVID-19, classified according to the vaccination mark compared to the total number of vaccinations placed on that mark, and to report to the Chamber every week the number of people vaccinated and hospitalised with primary COVID-19,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1375]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1376]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1377]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u580	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today it was another debate in which it became clear that the cabinet strategy was unethical. But I look at my colleagues and say to them: do not let this be another debate in which we want to be bought off with an excuse, a trick to give this cabinet free rein to continue this policy. This policy is at the expense of many Dutch people. It's important that we draw a line. A frontier against anti-scientific policy, against more financial and health damage, against a policy that weighs up whose life and health matter and whose life and health do not. That's why one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet agreed that the policy strategy on corona had opted for the "controlling" of the virus;]] [[noting that "checking out" means that the virus should be able to spread for as long as the ic capacity allows, with group immunity as therefore;]] [[noting that the aim of the policy strategy is not to contain as much as possible and prevent contamination;]] [[noting that this strategy has seriously harmed public health, resulted in more than 30,000 deaths and potentially made hundreds of thousands of Dutch long-term ill;]] [[noting that this strategy has caused enormous physical, financial and mental damage to the economy, working people, people at risk, young people and many others;]] [[noting that this strategy has prevented the cabinet from controlling the virus and that we are in a fourth wave of infection;]] [[rejects the corona strategy of the virus;]] [[calls on the government to break this strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1378]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u581	I talked to Mrs Simons earlier about the strategy. I think that we can very well discuss this, also thinking about what is good for the Netherlands. But in this motion I hear Mrs Simons saying that the cabinet has 30,000 deaths on its conscience. When we look around the world, we see that every country actually struggles with corona and that every country unfortunately has to regret losing and killing. So I think it is a very rough statement, as Mrs Simons cannot say that there would have been no deaths in following another strategy. Honestly, I don't know what question to ask now, but I do want to express my discomfort with this statement. You can find everything from the government's strategy, but it has worked hard for a year and a half, also because of all those people in the care who have said about this strategy, from the OMT, that is how we should do it. That's why I'm uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u582	I would like to thank Mrs Bikker for her honesty, her openness and for her displeasure. I get it, too. I make bold statements and I stand for those statements. It has not been said that the same strategy has been followed in all the other countries of the world and, therefore, many deaths are exponentially regrettable. There are countries that have done better. Those are countries that have intervened hard from day one and have been committed to curbing. Embarrassing is not the same as flattening and living in the illusion that you can completely banish it. Indeed, we cannot see whether other choices had led to better results. What we do know is that these choices do have disastrous consequences. In particular, we can see that very clearly in the choices that this debate is about today. The moment you choose to do so and gradually see the strategy that there are many deaths to regret, there are many sick people to regret, and long covid becomes our next big hurdle, then I think you need to intervene. That's what I'm trying to do with this motion. But I appreciate the openness and the open way in which Mrs Bikker asks me to explain it again and whether I myself think it is a bit boud. I think it's boud and I'm standing in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u583	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u584	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas festivals do not have an on-off switch;]] [[calls on the government to provide clarity to the entertainment industry and to indicate well in advance what should and should not be done,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas young people hardly notice anything about corona;]] [[Whereas most young people have already had corona;]] [[calls on the government to exempt young people from the "test society" so that they can simply return to festivals, to parties and travel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Kuzu/Van Haga motion, which was adopted and asked not to be sent to 'infectities' but to hospitalizations, was ignored;]] [[Whereas the VWS Minister has misled young people by claiming that they would be free again after vaccination;]] [[Whereas the Minister of VWS has misled operators in the catering and festival industries by stating that they were allowed to reopen, subject to tests for access;]] [[declares confidence in the Minister of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1379]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1380]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1381]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u585	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u586	Mr. Chairman. There are a few more questions. Let's talk about working at home. Mrs De Vries said, messy. Mr Paternotte also had a question about this. The tricky thing is, we must also think about how we do this, which is provided for in that legislation, that this type of debate is intended to see where the approach decided upon by the cabinet should be strengthened. This is not the place where we communicate about such a tightening up. It has to be separate, of course. It will be scheduled next Monday when we are back together with the most concerned rulers. But of course it's going to be in the media. That makes sense, because this is a public debate. The same goes for the point of "open the windows," which I will come back to in a moment. How does that work? Let me just clarify the dilemma of this. We have, of course, prepared the debate in advance and looked at what we might see in the light of various reactions, which we could go with the Chamber, which we do not really feel that way and where we see major objections. This is one of the things we thought: if this is a wide-ranging life, it might be possible to do so, also because it is an important opinion and there are different views on it. That is why, at some point, I was almost aware of whether I could understand the Chamber in such a way that there is wider support for it. In any case, there is no VVD, I understand from this, so I have to write that down. But that's kind of how it works. I'm really looking. You can also do it by motion at any time, but then there must be a motion on everything. So I'm just gonna make it homey. I don't have a solution for it now either. Maybe it's something to think about, but the point with that temporary law is that we finally have to look at how we're going to change that further. That is not the communication about it, because of course it has to be separate. That's scheduled for next Monday. Then we'll ride it out in one go, but it's inevitable that it'll come out in the reporting of this debate already. In any case, I am already impressed by how the news of 7.30 p.m. and the eight-hour news report we have told can be reduced to an understandable list of measures. On the same point of the OMT opinion, that is correct. That has already been said: hold this up. So that's what we're doing now. I'm just in favour of that, too. It's just not something we thought of in advance. But it's not like I'm gonna say grudgely, we're gonna do it. It's not like that. So we're really gonna take this seriously. I also shared with the Chamber the struggle of "how do we make our views know?'. Then there's the point of fresh air. That too will come Monday, is the intention, when we have it all finished. I hope that we will have the text very precise. Then over the CO-meters. The Cabinet will examine this and will examine with the RIVM whether this can be properly applied in practice and, if so, how. Well, that's still going on, isn't it? Then the question of the VVD about stretching the NOW limit at the final account. That is what we discussed in the first term. I figured that out for a while. But first there is a question about the previous point, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u587	The Belgians, our southern neighbours, now have six weeks of experience hanging up CO-meters. We've just figured out that we're going to take lessons from abroad. My request is whether we can switch this with the Belgians and whether we can take their experiences with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u588	Yeah, we're gonna take it with us. Sure. Absolutely. RIVM's gonna see if and how. We therefore ask them to take the Belgian experience into account. Then the NOW. Maybe this is what we can talk about. I didn't even think about it. My initial reaction was a little too hesitant because I just didn't have what I threatened to promise there. If it turns out this autumn that companies have not been able to make sales due to the restrictions for a whole quarter, then we are going to take a very serious look at whether there is anything that can be done to increase the turnover loss limit. We're not going to assume that's necessary right now, but we're going to keep the finger on the wrist. So that'll come back. Well, that's generic. You can't just do it for the event sector, but it was known. Then there is Mr Van der Staaij's question about the weddings. I'm just gonna take it back to the planned weddings. He himself said in his second term that it is quite a difficult question. It is. He also had a suggestion, namely to include it in the elaboration of the pop stages and the extension of the scheme. We'll take that with us. So we're gonna take a serious look at it. I can't say yes or no right now. We really need to weigh his request just as well. Mrs. Kuik asks: why didn't you take the advice on the eight people at home? We have talked about this internally for a very long time. The OMT advice is to limit the visit at home to a maximum of eight people or to give the urgent advice not to organize parties at home. In the end, after a long discussion, I should like to say that I too honestly decided to call in the communication to limit those meetings at home. Friday we literally said: keep your parties small and manageable and keep 1.5 meters away. That also has to do with consistency. If you say something about the group size inside, at parties at home, then this also has consequences for group sizes outside, but also in catering establishments, for example. That would all have wrinkle effects. We also had the discussion, like, "Do you have to make it all so complicated? You could also say: you know, eight at home, if at five feet. Does that immediately affect all those others?" You have to try to put those knittings through every time, because if you do something in one place, it will also work for the whole thing. That is why we have chosen the urgent advice not to organise parties at home or at least to keep it small and manageable, keeping 1.5 meters away. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u589	There's another question from Mrs. Chicken, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u590	Something really good's gonna come, but that wasn't my question. I asked a question about the nose masks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u591	Yeah, that's what Tamara van Ark's gonna say. Is that right? Hugo de Jonge goes into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u592	That's good. It was a question from Mrs Bikker and not from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u593	That's right. I had the question, too. I just asked who's gonna do it. Ministers are both going to answer: one about mouth caps and the other about nose masks. Look, you'll see the experience of directing. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 1362. Wilders says top priority. If I can just think of it as a high priority and not as a top priority, then you'll get discussion again. The motion in part No. 1363 of the PVV is a "pronounced." So I won't give you any advice on that. The motion in part No. 1364 requests that the supplementary scheme be extended until 3 September. The motion gets judgment Chamber. At the motion in part No. 1367 plays the following. Actually, this motion is unnecessary, because we're doing all this. Judge Room, then. These things are really all taken away. It'll come back in another form later, so judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 1368 about the ventilation in schools I have to advise against. That 260 million is for 2022 and 2023 and is additional to this year's 100 million. I said that in my first term, too. The results of the ibo on educational accommodation and the experience of the SUVIS scheme are taken into account. This will first assess the scheme's effectiveness. From education we hear that there are ideas about improving the scheme. One of the options in the ibo on educational housing is to use the resources more widely than just for ventilation. I have already said that there seems to be an overrun this year. We're trying to find a solution to that. I can't make a firm commitment to that right now, but there seem to be some tens of millions more needed than that 100 million. Then I think, as a simple soul, take that out of the 260 million. I see Mrs Westerveld thinks the same thing. However, that seems to be too simple a thought. Anyway, I have to discourage this motion for the reasons I have mentioned. The motion in part No. 1369 requests that the whole chain should be entitled to benefit from the guarantee scheme. I'm afraid I have to discourage this motion. By compensating the organisations of events through the Guarantee Fund for the costs incurred, they can respect all contracts there are with subcontractors. Any payments they have to make, they can just do it. This will help not only the organizers, but also the others in the chain. With that, I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. I don't think it's up to me to respond to the motion in part No. 1371. I think that's a matter for the Chamber. As a Member of Parliament, I find all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u594	There is another question about Mrs Westerveld's previous motion, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u595	About the event business. We see the risk that a whole lot of that money will stick with the organizers alone, while I said that earlier in this debate, a festival is organized by a lot of parties. Then how do we ensure that all these different parties, from catering to security, are also compensated? Because these are also people who have much less work from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u596	Then do the following: hold the motion. I'll do it through you, Mr. Chairman, because you texted me about it. I am therefore saying, through the chairman, that please hold the motion. We are going to continue to work on this regulation. It is intended precisely that all payments that subcontractors have to make can be made simply. You say: yes, but you're not quite sure; how does it end up working in the chain? Let me then ask the troika to involve this motion in the elaboration. Then perhaps you could hold the motion for this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u597	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u598	Yeah, that's good. Then we'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u599	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (25295, No. 1369). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u600	I have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 1367, so that we can determine our vote for the votes in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u601	This is what I said. Prior to any decision-making, advice is sought from different parties, including the behavioural unit, and communication experts. They are always part of the decision-making process. The advice letter of the Corona Behaviour Unit of the RIVM is always attached to the stand-of-business letter. The behavioural reflections are taken into account in the communication strategy, for example in communicating the measures and national campaigns. You see how careful I am to tell you how we're gonna do that window-open communication. I want these experts to be able to really weigh every word. In other words, we do. That's why I said that motion is unnecessary. But you can also say: Judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u602	I was mainly concerned with the following. I have just stated in my second term that we think it is important that the economic impact on entrepreneurs is taken into account, but also on well-being.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u603	Yeah, that list isn't complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u604	It seems a little like this motion is excluding that, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u605	No. We also, of course, have the whole cross-cutting test on economic and social impact. That's why we always have the CPB and the SCP at the table. No, it stays that way. The motion is therefore not complete in the list, because all of them are also included. But it does make sense. It is also so silly not to give the motion a ruling Chamber. For the motion in part No. 1374 of Volt actually applies exactly the same as to Mrs Kuik's motion, so that too gets the same explanatory opinion Chamber. It may not be complete either, but that does not mean that we are changing the policy. The motion in part No. 1376 of BBB, who asks the cabinet to compensate all affected organizers, I must advise against. The organizers of village parties can call on the additional concession events. This also concerns 100% of the costs incurred. But we do not intend to reimburse more than the costs that have been incurred. The letter lays down certain conditions for the feasibility and possible risks of abuse. As a cabinet, we would like to hold on to that. I need the motion in part no. 1376 thus dissuaded. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1378 by Mrs Simons. I'd like to think about that a little bit longer. Words can hurt. We have been deeply touched by this motion. We have become really emotional, all three of us, and of course all those people in the country who have been fighting corona for a year and a half. I really don't think you can say everything. You can say anything, because there is freedom of speech, but civilization and inner censorship set limits to what you say. It actually says that there's death because of 30,000 people, and a lot of other things. I really think it's a terrible motion. I got really hit by that, all three of us. Again, we can take a hit, but this is also seen by the people who work day and night in the OMT, who work day and night in the behavioral units, who work day and night in the hospitals and who advise us. It actually shows me that this whole strategy has harmed public health and resulted in 30,000 deaths. Then I'm almost inclined to defend myself and say that there are relatively fewer deaths in the Netherlands than in other countries, but then I think: no, I'm not going to defend that at all! This is so ridiculous! You just can't do this. I also believe that there are limits in the relationship between Chamber and Cabinet. I'm pulling it right here, really. So I'm going to dissuade that motion, of course, but I'd like to add that. Mrs Simons is also fully entitled to her freedom of expression. I'll always defend it. But I have every right to say, on behalf of the cabinet, that we really think that this motion is completely, but completely, flying off the bend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u606	There are all those who are doing everything they can and who have been working very hard for a year and a half on what this policy tells them to do. They do that with the best of intent. Nowhere have I written in the motion that I doubt the Prime Minister's intention. But do you know who else is watching? The next of kin to these 30,000 people. The next of kin to the people who died. Nowhere in the motion says Mr Rutte is responsible for 30,000 deaths. What it does say is that we have chosen a strategy that we can conclude after a year and a half that there is a great deal of suffering to be regretted and that it may well be that another strategy will lead to a different outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u607	It doesn't say that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u608	And if Mr Rutte wants to talk about civilisation and implies that I would be deprived of it, then it has touched me lightly. Slightly, because I'm not easily irritated. Mr. Rutte knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u609	I find this motion uncivilized. You don't do this between decent people. It says literally 'I can't read it any other way 'that the cabinet, the policy 'that' are us, but also all those people behind us; that's a lot of advisers, a lot of people working on it day and night have caused 30,000 deaths. This country, this whole world, is facing a pandemic in February, March last year. There are a lot of deaths to be regretted all over the world. That's terrible. Mrs Van Ark has just explained how we are going to try to show respect for this too. But to give the impression that the chosen strategy is to regret 30,000 deaths here, and all the other things in this motion... As far as I'm concerned, it's far off limit. I find this impertinent and uncivilized. You don't do this between civilized people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u610	If I may say so: I think it is not done that you hold on to a policy of which we must conclude after a year and a half, especially after the weekend that is under discussion here, namely the release of all kinds of measures, with disastrous consequences... I find it uncivilised not to want to take responsibility for that. If a motion points to 30,000 deaths to be regretted in this country, then I find it uncivilised to say: you cannot say that, because that is a shame for all civil servants. I don't think that's civilized. I have just said to Mrs Bikker: it is a bold motion and I stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u611	Mrs Simons can stand here and make bold motions, but that does not mean that that motion can be made. Sure can. You have every right to freedom of speech; I will always defend it. But then I also have the right to say that I think this is impertinent and uncivilized, that you do not do this between decent people, and that this is not just a blow to the face of us, and we can take on something like this, but against thousands of people in this country who have conscientiously tried to manage a pandemic that has happened to us all in the past year, with falling and standing up, with making mistakes, in the right direction. The strategy followed by the Netherlands is the strategy followed by the whole of Europe. That strategy is maximum control of the virus by keeping an eye on the spread, by protecting the vulnerable and by protecting care. That's what all European countries do. We've done nothing strange, nothing different. In the Netherlands, the number of deaths is high, 30,000. Relatively, if you look at a lot of other countries, fortunately, the number of fatalities is even more limited than in many other countries. We're gonna have that all evaluated, exactly how it is. But it says here that this strategy "has seriously harmed, resulted in more than 30,000 deaths and potentially made hundreds of thousands of Dutch long-term ill." You don't do that. So I'm done with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u612	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u613	Mrs Simons, I haven't given you the floor yet, so I'm going to do that now. Finally, Mrs Simons, very briefly. Then we'll proceed to the other appreciations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u614	That is exactly what it says, because that is exactly what happened in the Netherlands. And the excuse that all European countries do it doesn't make it right. That doesn't make it right. There are countries, perhaps outside Europe, that have done it differently. There are larger countries, with larger population numbers, which have fewer deaths to regret. That's what this motion says. Again, I think it's... Well, let me just say that to you, Mr. President. The filing of a motion isn't tough. I don't feel tough. I feel sad. I feel sad that this is necessary. I feel sad that we are having another debate here and that there is another reaction to 'it is up to you, because your motion is too boud', or too bold, or I do not know what I just heard. This is a motion in which there is no false word. In fact, no letter! In fact, no point! If it comes down to it again, I'll file another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u615	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u616	I don't think that's tough. I think that's sad. I find that sad, especially for all those people...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u617	Mrs. Simons...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u618	... who have had to lose their loved ones in the last year and a screen on their computer at the funeral! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u619	The level's sinking pretty good here. Motion in part No. 1379, from Haga. I must discourage it, referring to the debate. We would like to clarify as soon as possible, but I regret to say that I have to advise against this motion. Motion in part No. 1381 is a motion of censure. It's not my call, but I'd have advised against it if I hadn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u620	Thank you. Then I give the floor... Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u621	I'm gonna get involved, even though it might not be my share. I really don't want to end this debate like this. Because Mrs Simons may use firm words, but of course she is concerned that a strategy has been chosen and that she would make a different choice. The cabinet now almost cares about this at a personal level. We're at the end of a long night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u622	Have you read it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u623	Yeah, I read it, but I don't think this is the way we should break up right now. So, in other words, whatever Mrs Simons writes, I don't think she's saying you're personally responsible. She just wants to make another choice. I am making a very modest attempt here, although it may not be my role, to see if we can end this evening in a slightly different way. 'Cause nobody in the house says people are personally responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u624	As long as in the fourth observation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u625	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u626	I will always discourage the motion because we support our strategy. The other observations contained in it would not have affected me. Then I would have discouraged the motion and said: difference of opinion. But it says in the fourth remark: "that this strategy has seriously harmed public health, resulted in more than 30,000 deaths and potentially made hundreds of thousands of Dutch people long-term ill." [[Sentence could not be parsed: Zolang die constatering erin staat, kan ik niet anders dan reageren zoals ik heb gereageerd.]] I'm not changing that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u627	I want to end this discussion now. Mrs. Kuik, you've had your chance to say something about it. The Prime Minister has responded. I want to end this discussion now. I will give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u628	Mr. Chairman. First a number of motions and then two questions, and finally a correction. I have been too short of substance and have therefore gone too short in the response to Mrs Bikker and also Mr Van der Staaij. I have to keep the confessional part of this Chamber to myself, so I will have to correct it later. Not just the confessional part, by the way, Mr President; this is to reassure you. First of all, the motion in part No. 1361 of the VVD. It invites the government to return to testing for access for events as soon as possible. In the light of everything I have said about this in the first place, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. Then motion to part No. 1365 of the CDA, Mrs Van den Berg, and the VVD, Mrs De Vries. It calls on the government to scale up the number of mobile puncture boxes where a vaccine can be obtained without agreement, especially in reaching young people. I would also like to leave the judgment to the Chamber in the light of everything we have discussed on this subject in the first term. Then motion to part No. 370: calls on the government to make additional efforts with the GGDs and local partners for vulnerable neighbourhoods. Here too, I should like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, referring to the first term. Then motion to part No. 1372. That belongs to Mrs. Gündoğan, Mrs. Simons and Mrs. Chicken. That's about strategy and steering to maximum containment. I would advise against this motion, referring to what has been discussed in the first term and all the other corona debates. Then the motion to part No. BBB 1375 on stopping testing directly for access. I wouldn't recommend it. The motion in part No. 1377 I would advise against in exchange for a commitment. Let me explain. I think this motion by Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga is asking for very interesting things. The point is that I can't deliver that tomorrow or next week. But of course we want to know as much about the patients who are hospitalized. Have they been vaccinated or not? That is why we want to have a central registration of it. A motion has already been tabled by Mr Kuzu. We're implementing that motion. It is quite a puzzle in terms of data linking and in terms of what you may or may not share with information, but we very much want to know. We would very much like to know the same thing about the people with a positive test result. That is something we can use in the data link, even though it is not yet complete. I am going to discourage the motion because I cannot deliver it, but I will admit that I will be able to deliver everything I can or will deliver in the short term, in the next progress letter to Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga. Then I'm going to deliver it, because I think we're all very much in favour of optimal transparency about which part of the people who are in the hospitals have actually been vaccinated, once, twice, etc. This is probably not going to work by brand of vaccine, but it will when it comes to the question of who is or is not in the hospital. Then motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u629	Excuse me. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u630	Can you also promise that, as far as that information is known, you will let us know which vaccine these people have been vaccinated with? I would also like to know when this progress letter will or may be forthcoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u631	It comes after the decision of the 13th, so probably on August 13th. With regard to the brand of vaccine: I would like to know that, but I think there is a limit in questioning people. You should imagine that if people are admitted, you should actively ask them at the check-in of the intake: what vaccine have you been vaccinated with? Then you have to check the file and then it has to be linked to the RIVM data. I think that's a lot to ask, but I want to know as much as you do, so if I can, I'll do it, but I think there's some limitation in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u632	As far as we know, yes. It may well be that some people are registered with what they have been vaccinated with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u633	Sure, but it's also possible that people are barely contactable. Then you just really don't know. Whatever I can get upstairs, I'm gonna get upstairs, because we all want to know. In the letter from the 13th, I'll let you know what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u634	I will look at Mrs Van der Plas to see if she is prepared to hold the motion after this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u635	At least I'm holding the motion. Then we're not gonna treat her right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u636	At the request of Mrs Van der Plas, I propose her motion (25295, No. 1377). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u637	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u638	Then the motion to part No. 1380 by Mr Van Haga. I'm going to dissuade them, because of course we're not helping young people with that at all. That would mean that testing for access is no longer possible or safe for them. Then I'll come to two questions. First of all, Mr Wilders' question about travelling. We just have to do that. We need to make sure people are well informed. Anything we can do better in terms of informing, we're going to do. That's what Mrs Bikker called for. We do this on the website of wise travel and via the travel app. We will make every effort to keep the borders open, because I believe that this will be of great benefit to everyone. Especially for Mr Wilders, I'm going to have contact with his favourite holiday country Hungary to see if the borders can at least stay open there. Mr Wilders' plea for open borders is, of course, something very beautiful at all. That you can just experience that on the threshold of summer in the Knight's Room! It's nice. Really nice. Then the masks. Mrs. Kuik asked: how do we deal with the mouth caps given the increased level of infection? First of all, there is an OMT opinion, which is mainly intended for care. If the level of infection increases outside, you will certainly have to work more with mouth caps in the care of vulnerable people. That's what you see everywhere. If you enter a nursing home now in one of the big cities or in Groningen, you will see mouth caps there again. You'll see them in the hospitals, too. This is also logical and in line with the directive agreed by the OMT and the Working Group under the OMT. That's what health care institutions use. Two. Of course, we still have the mouth cap obligation in public transport and on the platforms. This means that we need to maintain it better. That's, I think, everyone's observation. Three. The OMT meets weekly, and does so at a time when the conclusions that one draws, if they are different from just monitoring the epidemiological situation and also requiring additional measures, are presented to us at a time when we can decide on them and then communicate on Monday afternoon. There is, of course, the toolbox from which one can draw. I am not going to say here that we are going to explicitly ask the OMT, because of course it can also be advised to us if one considers it necessary. I now come to two other points, first towards Mrs Bikker and then towards Mr Van der Staaij. Because I've gone too short. First of all, the 60- to 64-year-olds. Mrs Bikker asked me in the first term about the possibility for people who want a second shot of BioNTech/Pfizer after a first shot of AstraZeneca. I indicated in my response that this possibility will be created at the GGD from Friday 16 July. So far, so good. In addition, however, it is good to say that this possibility is offered by year-by-year. So don't call like 60- to 64-year-olds and masse on that Friday morning. There are a million of them after all, and we know that 40% of them have not yet had a second shot. That means a lot of people could start calling at the same time. Don't do that, because first of all it will be opened up before the 1956 year and earlier. The people of 1956 will thus be the first. If that turns out to be little, but we just don't know that, it will open quite soon afterwards for the other construction years as well. But that's really up to the G.D.D. I know that all 60-64-year-olds are on Twitter, so they have to follow either the GGD's account or Mr Paternotte's account, or mine, of course. Then they'll know. But it's really up to the GD to communicate about that. First the people from 1956, then the rest as soon as possible. Well, I'm glad I got that straightened out. Secondly, Mr Van der Staaij's freedom of choice. What I have also said about this is, in fact, broadly correct. I just said that you can choose Pfizer. Of course it is, but one can choose mRNA. It's either Pfizer or Moderna. It doesn't make any difference to most of us, by the way. It really doesn't matter to anyone, but the choice is not for the Pfizer brand but for mRNA. This is how the option of choice was created.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u639	Thank you. That's how we almost got to the end of it. I shall give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66, and then the Minister for Medical Care will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u640	I am still responding to the Minister's enthusiastic response to the suggestion that the prick cans should be sent to young people. I am also, of course, looking at our earlier commitment to Schiphol, on which I believe we are increasingly agreeing. I have therefore put the motion we tabled with the Labour Party and the PVV on the voting list. I do not know if the Minister has been able to take note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u641	No, but I do know a little what Mr Paternotte wants. What Mr Paternotte wants is that we offer an instant opportunity at Schiphol Airport...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u642	In consultation with the G.D.D.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u643	... so that if an instantaneous need were to arise among young people in order to get caught up in the first place, that is also possible. I happen to be visiting the GGD Kennemerland on Friday. I know that people are thinking about it and I'm going to hear from the GGD Kennemerland on Friday about the planning, and whether they're planning to create something on site. But I'm really gonna leave it at the GGD Kennemerland. I'll just get back to you. That's how we're supposed to do it, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u644	Judge Room, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u645	Okay, Mr Paternotte tweets about birth years that are next with stings and gives judgements on his own motions on behalf of the cabinet... That's self-reliance!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u646	By the way, it is good to know the appreciation of the motion. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. What is the appreciation of this motion, which was held and which is now being filed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u647	Of course, every day I read Mr Paternotte's motions that have already been tabled, but I do not think they are very clear, Mr President. So if you'll allow me, I'm gonna take a look at it. Do you want me to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u648	Yes. In the meantime, I will give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u649	Mr. Chairman. There are two motions I must appreciate. That's the motion in part No. 1366 by Mr Hijink, Mrs Van Esch, Mrs Kuik and Mrs Westerveld, who know two requests. On the first request, namely to develop a multidisciplinary treatment offer, I would like to say that this is not something the government itself is doing. If I could read "Let work," I could give that part of the motion judgment Chamber. However, I would ask that this motion be held because of the second request. I would like to ask my colleague from SZW to write a letter in response to this request. I would ask him to come up with solutions on reintegration, sickness compensation and loss of income when it comes to this group of patients. However, we must first look at whether there is a problem, because, of course, we have a social security system. And then we look at the possible solutions. I would like to make that request to my colleague from SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u650	We're talking about the motion in part No. 1366. I'll take a look at Mr. Hijink. Is he willing to hold his motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u651	I say that, of course, I will not wait to pass on the request to the next sitting, if it is after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u652	I think that's very good. I think it would be nice if... These people are in a hurry. It's not like they're gonna wait another six months for those treatments to start. It would be nice if we had that reaction for the next debate we are going to have here. I don't know at all whether that's going to be mid-August or later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u653	Let's do this. In the next state-of-the-art letter, published around 13 August, I take stock of these two issues. Mr Hijink may then decide to put his motion to the vote if he does not agree with what I am writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u654	At the request of Mr Hijink, I propose his motion (25295, No. 1366). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u655	And otherwise I also like to hear it, because it's also fun if it's okay. Then the motion to part No. 1373 by Mrs Gündoğan and Mrs Simons on the nose masks. That's not what we government are about. The healthcare professionals make the guidelines. That's why I'm deceiving this motion. They were, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u656	Thank you. We clean quickly and then I give the floor to the Minister for his appreciation of the motion that has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u657	The self-reliance of the member Fathernotte really knows no bounds. I have just just been given the motion on which it was addressed in all service. Now that I see the signature, I could have left the judgment to the Chamber because of the signature. But the operative part says: "Asks the government, in consultation with the local GGD, to offer a vaccination facility at Schiphol Airport this summer, and if possible other travel nodes, where people can go for a corona vaccination without an appointment." That is quite in line with what I have just said about what I am going to discuss with friends in Kennemerland on Friday, albeit as an obligation to explain the motion rather than as an obligation to achieve results. 'Cause I think the G.D.D.'s just the boss there. So I'm going to pass on the suggestion, but the GGD is going to see what can and can't eventually be done. If I could read the motion as an effort, I would leave it to the Chamber and therefore follow the suggestion that Mr Paternotte himself has already made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u658	I see that Mr Paternotte nods and therefore agrees with the interpretation. Mrs Gündoğan had another question for the Minister for Medical Care. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u659	Let's go back to cleaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u660	Then we go back to cleaning, yes; it's no different. Ms Gündoğan
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u661	The reason I tabled this motion is that I have been told by nurses that they find it difficult in the health care institutions where they work. There is a struggle to introduce it, because they run into security regions that all deal with it differently. That is why they are looking for a uniform directive in order to be able to re-introduce it. That's what's behind it. So the idea is that you might be able to think along with what we can do, because there seems to be a need for care and care for nurses and also for patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u662	That's a thought I understand very well. I had a meeting this morning in which the inspection was present, and that was also where this subject was raised. They indicated that in regions where the virus is on the rise, talks with the major organisations in the region in particular are beginning again. That is in line with the directive. I've sent several letters to the Chamber. When you work in healthcare, you always have the right to say: I want to use this in my professionalism. Then employers will have to make it available. In fact, it's in the extra-cost scheme, so you can always do that. Indeed, employers' associations and professional groups also say that there are sometimes peer pressure that does not allow people to do so. That's the time, so they advise, to talk to your employer or report it to the inspection. Occupational groups and trade unions also have hotlines themselves. I still dissuade the motion, but I can bring this issue to the attention of the inspection and ask them to pay attention to it. They are constantly in conversation, including through the security regions, with the healthcare organisations. If we hear it's a broader problem, we can take action on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u663	The motion is mine, to put it bluntly. It is my concern that it is resolved in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u664	I'll get on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u665	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u666	I thank the rulers. The Members of Parliament will remain seated for a while, because we are going to vote in about ten minutes. I thank the viewers at home and I also thank all the supporters and staff of the First Chamber who have made it possible to have the debate today in the Knight's Room. This includes the messengers, the technical service and the facility service.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u667	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting until 11:00 p.m. Then we'll vote.
