ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the joint debate on legislative proposals 35807, Temporary Corona Access Cards Act, and 35808, Amendment of the Public Health Act due to the introduction of additional temporary measures for international passenger traffic in connection with the fight against the epidemic of covid-19, as well as the debate on the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing two new legislative proposals in the Corona approach, the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 (Twm). We are also looking back and forward at the way in which the government is tackling the covide epidemic. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I will discuss the extension of the Twm and the Quarantine Act, while Saskia Kluit will be discussing the Test Act shortly. The covid virus has been among us for almost a year and a half. It has had a major impact on those who died as a result and their neighbors, on those who have been seriously ill, those who still have serious residual complaints, on employees in care, on patients whose other care was delayed and sometimes too late, and the impact on society was also great. Restrictions in social interaction and social contacts hit us all, but some harder. I am thinking of young people who couldn't go to school and couldn't see each other, of elderly people who couldn't have a family to visit, of parents who had to teach for months at home. The economic damage is also great: for our country, for companies and for people. Much has been done to limit that damage, but that was not enough for everyone. It's good to think about this. On the other hand, we can see that the vaccination campaign is now on steam, that the levels of infection and intakes in hospitals and ICIs are falling, and that we are re-opening society. With the cabinet, my group believes that it is too early to release the measures from the Twm as of 1 June. The question arises as to whether an extension of three months is necessary. Has the government considered extending the law by less than three months, for example until 1 July or 1 August? The law is now extended until 1 September. We may then be able to let go of the only measure directly laid down in the Twm. Can the Minister give an estimate? With all the fuss about curfew, mouth caps and the Test Act, we could forget that the distance measure itself is already a serious violation of our freedom of movement and our right to engage in physical interactions with other people. The fact that the rule is in any case only occasionally enforced outside does not alter that. It is still forbidden to walk hand in hand with a lover you don't live with, to fool around in the park with a group of friends, to walk with your grandmother on the arm. This measure should also expire as soon as possible. We hope that will be on 1 September. The question is what will happen next. In the opinion of our group, we need to think about this now, both procedurally and in terms of content. Processically, because we are dealing with a summer recess of both Chambers in the months before 1 September, because on the one hand a number of temporary measures probably need to continue to apply a little longer and, on the other hand, we also need to consider what legal bases for action might need to be permanently incorporated into the Wpg, in order to better deal with both the endemic situation and any subsequent pandemics. After all, the outbreak of covid has shown us that the instruments of rapid and adequate response to a pandemic were not in order. This includes legal safeguards for the protection of fundamental rights, such as freedom of movement and privacy, and a clear balancing framework. It should also include a proper parliamentary involvement in the deployment and deployment of measures. I would like to ask the Ministers whether they agree with my group that it is important to start thinking about this now and whether they can promise us that they will send a plan to our Chamber well before the summer recess on how they see this route ahead, both procedurally and in terms of content. Mr. Chairman. We must also talk about the implementation of the Janssen motion, which calls for decisive control of the States General in the event of the extension of the Twm, and the De Boer motion, which gives a preferred option for how that could be arranged. The government has shared this preferred option with the committee for JenV of the House of Representatives, which has adopted it for notification and who subsequently has discouraged a motion from the TK to regulate control in a different way, because the First Chamber wanted something different. That's not gonna make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mrs De Boer said two intriguing things: shorten on the one hand and extend on the other. How am I supposed to understand that? Does she want to extend a bit in the middle of the summer, so it takes longer? What's the idea behind that? What measures do you think would be wise if they were to last longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u5	We are not concerned that the measures should last longer, because we hope to get rid of them as soon as possible. We are concerned that the whole of Twm has shown that the legal infrastructure was not in order to take action if a pandemic broke out. I do not now have the answer to the question of which ones they should be, but we all have to ensure that when a next pandemic breaks out, we are better prepared and that there are brackets in the Wpg when measures need to be taken, including the systematic way they can be put into effect, with the involvement of the States General. This way, you don't have to start again from zero at a next pandemic and you don't have the imperfections that the Twm has, for example about the involvement of the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u7	No, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u8	So it's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u9	Yeah, I get it. I'm limiting my number of interruptions, in accordance with the informal agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u10	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u11	I'm moving on. I note that we are no longer going to regulate the implementation of these motions in the Twm before that law expires. In any event, in order to satisfy the spirit of the two motions, can the Government at any rate promise that any intention to extend the Twm will be sent to the First Chamber at a time when it will be able to hold a debate on this matter with the Government if it so wishes and to take a position on the matter by way of motion if it so wishes? And can the government promise that, in shaping possible permanent legal bases, the position of the two Chambers of the States General will be secured in the setting up and setting up of measures? During the debate in this Chamber on the previous extension, my then colleague Mr Bikker and I were promised that a wide-ranging consideration would be made, taking into account the social, social and economic effects in addition to the health risks, and that this consideration would also be made clearer. I would like to congratulate the government on the improvements that have been made in this area, but with a number of comments. As far as we are concerned, for example, the balance between measures and measures is still not sufficiently clear and some choices are incomprehensible. For example, you may go to the IKEA, but not to a museum and there is still no practical education. We also note that the information from the Catshuis consultation is limited to the opinions issued and the conclusions of the consideration. There is no balance between the pros and cons per measure, as well as the expected effects per measure, both in terms of health and well-being and the economy. Are these trade-offs made on a measure-by-measure basis and can these trade-offs be shared? In order to gain insight into this, the minutes of the Catshuisberaad might help. Are those minutes made and could they be shared? Mr. Chairman. I'm joining the quarantine bill. The Council of State found that the necessity, proportionality and effectiveness of the law were not sufficiently substantiated and denounced the absence of a hardness clause. The latter has been dealt with by an amendment from the House of Representatives. However, the need for the law is still moderately justified as far as my group is concerned. The figures used are old and come from a different situation than they are today, and a lot is being worked on with assumptions. With regard to proportionality, we see that the quarantine obligation can be more precise and less stringent than a flight ban. A flight ban is a rude instrument. It absolutely limits the freedom of travellers, without being able to offer customised services in terms of exceptions. A quarantine obligation is a restriction of freedom of movement, but leaves travellers the choice. They can't come either. It also leaves room for exceptions. The government states that a flight ban only works for direct flights and not for people travelling by transfer. That would be different before the quarantine. Can the government explain exactly how the quarantine obligation will be implemented in relation to travellers travelling with a transfer? Because we still have some questions about that. The most serious question is the effectiveness of the law. For example, many exceptions to situations with a high risk of spreading: weddings, funerals or a farewell to a dying family member. How does the government weigh this? The enforcement that is deployed is minimal. It is estimated that only one in eight people will be called. Whether there will be follow-up to suspicions of non-compliance is doubtful, as this is not a priority for municipalities. The amount of the fine is also very limited. The effectiveness of a sanction is determined by a combination of the probability of taking it and the level of the penalty. If both are low, as in this law, the effectiveness is generally low. Does the government see this as well and does it see the possibility of doing something about it? A low fine can also have a different effect. If you don't have to quarantine by paying a relatively small amount, it can mean that wealthy and business travellers can easily come out under duty. It doesn't work for the less well-off. The relatively low fine can thus be discriminatory. We understand that the fines for violating the quarantine obligation in other countries are much higher. Can the government say anything about that? For example, about France, Germany and Belgium? My group has no major objections to the introduction of a mandatory quarantine for travellers, if this is an effective means of preventing the spread of new or non-new variants of the virus in our country. If it is not an effective means because of too low sanctions combined with insufficient enforcement, then we are in the process of introducing symbol legislation. My group does, however, have major reservations about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u12	Actually, I was already standing in front of the comment you're making. Because in the previous debate, you indicated that you would consider the coming of a quarantine obligation. Now, in the second part of your speech, you indicated that you had no objection to it, but you raised a great many objections to the proposal now before you. So perhaps you can still indicate a framework within which a quarantine obligation according to GroenLinks could work and within which there are sufficient foundations to introduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you for this question. A quarantine obligation for travellers can be a means if it is effective. That is actually our most important consideration. I have previously asked for this in debates, which is also contained in the commitment statement on the need for a legal regulation of the quarantine obligation. At that time, I believe, Minister Grapperhaus promised: we are working on an arrangement. In doing so, I really meant a completely different quarantine obligation, namely a mandatory quarantine for people who have been tested positively. There never was. So I'd like to put that question to the government, too. Thank you for this interruption, because that means that I could do it outside my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u14	There's a trade-off between a quarantine obligation and a flight ban. I heard Mrs De Boer say that a flight ban would be more drastic. I do not quite understand that, because if we were to introduce a flight ban for non-essential travel, and we are keeping, for example, the exceptions that the law now provides for quarantine also apply to the flight ban, how can you say that a flight ban would make a more serious breach than a quarantine obligation? A quarantine obligation means that people who have no symptoms, who are not otherwise ill, who are only suspects, are locked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u15	Because you can't make that exception with a flight ban, because then nothing flies. I think that's the essence of a flight ban. But perhaps you should ask the government this question. The moment you have a quarantine obligation and you don't want to, you can still decide not to fly. Then you effectively have the same result as a flight ban. I have also understood from the Government's replies that if the situation in a country is very alarming, a flight ban can still be imposed. That a quarantine obligation is more targeted than a flight ban, we are therefore convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u16	Then I suggest you conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u17	Yes. I have one final question: does the Government consider that the possibility of a quarantine obligation for travellers can be useful even after the expiry of the Twm and, if so, does the Minister intend to prepare legislation to make this possible as from 1 September, outside the Twm? Will the Minister then undertake to seek advice from the Human Rights College on the admissibility of this quarantine obligation under Article 5 of the ECHR, which is still unclear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kluit, also on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u19	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Given the rights involved in the test law, it is not surprising that we have received a lot of e-mails in recent days. Time and time again it appears that foundations on which we build our democracy come to life with the corona crisis. I think that is a very good development, even though it is not very practical to get so many emails in a short time. Democracy matters. The introduction of mandatory access tests clearly infringes important citizens' rights, such as the right to physical integrity and freedom of movement, but also rights such as the right to cultural life and the right to education. In addition, the risk of exclusion is based on medical status. In this law, this aspect requires particular attention, also to avoid tensions between people and stigmatisation of non-vaccines and social segregation. These aspects have increased in importance, now that an amendment to corona tests can be equated with a vaccination certificate or a recovery certificate. Unfortunately, however, civil rights are not absolute and sometimes collide. Then diabolical dilemmas arise. For example, the virus is detected faster with access tests, at least in GroenLinks' view on access tests, and testing can prevent far more profound lockdowns. But the most important thing in the context of this law is that by short-term testing in specific situations, we can prevent the fundamental rights of all Dutch people from being restricted by generic measures for a long time, because that is actually the case now. We have been living for 14 months with very generic restrictions on freedom. In short, conflicting interests, in which we as a society have to make choices. This law is full of that. In this context, it is good to explicitly mention here that, as GroenLinks, we are strongly in favour of corona tests as a kind of hygiene measure, but also of mandatory access tests if the situation so requires. We therefore support the Minister in the search to make this possible. Because low-threshold tests combined with vaccination can make corona an endemic condition in the short term, and I think we are all waiting for that. That also makes the Twm redundant. However, given the civil rights and the risk of exclusion involved in the concept of corona tickets, such a proposal must be proportionate and effective. The preferential treatment must be finite. By this I mean that it must be known under what conditions you can and cannot use it as a cabinet. In addition, privacy must be properly regulated and all Dutch people must be able to participate equally. There's still a problem. There are still many proverbial bears on the road. Therefore, the following questions. The cabinet does not want to set further criteria for the use of tickets, apart from the aforementioned open plan. As far as I am concerned, they feed on the fear of citizens that this law is being saddled with a permanent testing society. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance therefore believes that it should be crystal clear in advance when the cabinet can put in mandatory access tests and when not, especially in the autumn, when the figures are going to rise and we are not talking about phasing out but building up measures, what is going to happen is clear. Can the Minister, therefore, indicate the criteria for infections, ic-figures, he considers the use of access tests to be proportionate? We are considering tabling a motion together with D66 on this matter. The Minister strongly supports the open plan as a basis for the deployment of sector-by-sector access testing, so that is one level lower. But despite the open plan, the cabinet regularly makes different choices. We have therefore asked about the ministerial regulation and the AMvB under this law to better understand what is going to happen, but unfortunately we have not received it. Can the Minister, therefore, explain in detail in this debate what is to be included in these arrangements and in the AMvB and what is to be provided for? What direction are you thinking? How is the cabinet going to do that with a closure plan instead of an open plan? Do the same criteria apply but in reverse order? My other great concern: are we also bound by the Temporary Law Twm in the coming years with this law? My colleague De Boer has said something about this. My question to the Minister is: is he prepared to replace this version of the Test Act by 1 September at the latest with another instrument whereby direct links with the Twm are released? As far as we are concerned, we have a test law with clear criteria and the position of both chambers in Parliament is secured. As a follow-up, both the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority indicate that a new law would actually be needed to include vaccination certificates in the law. The Minister's answer does not reassure us yet. The Minister himself states that, if vaccination certificates are to be used for a longer period of time, this requires a fundamental debate. That has not yet been done, says the Minister himself. I would like a reflection from the Minister on whether he estimates that the instrument of vaccination certificates can be used without a fundamental debate. Then to the test infrastructure. It is important for the feasibility that there is a test infrastructure where people can easily test to ensure that they actually do so on a regular basis and that tickets do indeed lead to more access for all citizens. I can be very brief about that. This current test structure does not meet this requirement and falls short when it comes to low-threshold. Less than one in every three municipalities gets a test center. The criterion of 30 minutes per car is an exclusive criterion. Mrs van den Nieuwenhuijzen knows my passion for people who don't have cars; millions of people don't have cars and millions of families don't have cars or licenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u20	It's all hanging on GroenLinks today. GroenLinks is apparently in favour of both laws; then they can be in the government. However, I would like to ask one more question about this, because I actually hear Mrs Kluit say that she chooses that test society, while we get a lot of e-mails from people who are very concerned about that test society. Why is GroenLinks not committed to a relaxation, in the sense that museums and theatres, for example, with due regard for all the other measures that are possible, are more open to everyone without having to show passports? 'Cause that's exactly where we're supposed to go, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u21	I was gonna come up with that later, but I'm gonna do it now. We believe that the scope of the bill for this summer should actually be limited to the sectors as you call them, where many people come together and where you can't keep the 1.5 metres properly, and that in other situations you shouldn't actually ask for tickets. But more fundamentally, because that's actually your question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u22	I understand that you will come back to this in your speaking time. Because then we will do it in your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u23	I am not going to go back to that, the question of whether we are in favour of a test society. No, we are not in favour of that, but we are in favour of a society that we can keep as open as possible. If that calls for people to do a test on corona, we think it is a good instrument. I'll outline it for those mbos.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u24	A short answer comes with a short interruption. Mr. Nicolaï, do you have a follow-up question or is the answer clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u25	I heard Mrs Kluit say that she is for that testing company, and that is a pity. If, at the same time, it turns out that it is very difficult, I just heard Mrs Kluit say that in order to get a free test, what are we doing? That's an important question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thanks to GroenLinks, an amendment has been adopted to enable self-testing in this law. We are very much in favour of this, and we are going to ask the Minister about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you. Then I suggest that you continue your speech, if it were not for Mrs Baay to have an interruption on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mrs Kluit, how can you possibly assess the reliability of these self-tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u29	You actually have two ways to handle testing. You can use it on a large scale. We think there should be a minimum level of contamination in the country before you do this. That's the question behind it. Suppose there's a new virus variant or the numbers increase. Then we would prefer people to think it is normal to test extensively, for example in Denmark. We believe that the self-test is a very important means of doing this. If you live in a remote place and you don't have a car, you might ask a lot to go to the café on the corner. You'll have to travel a long time. In such situations, we consider self-testing to be perfectly legitimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u30	I hear Mrs Kluit talking again about a like-dan situation. I will come back to that later in my own contribution. 100% accurate test results do not exist, even in PCR tests. But if you have tests that don't meet a very high percentage of reliability, what's the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u31	In all parliamentary treatment of covid measures, we want to be super precise on the one hand. On the other hand we take too late steps, so it gets out of hand every time. So we are there to ensure more and coarser tests at the front, so that you do not get into the situation we are now in. I also understand the disadvantages of self-testing. You can do something about that by offering guided self-tests. It's easier to do that than it is now with those test centers. But we have a slightly different view of the role of testing in a pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u32	Then I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u33	The question is: does the Minister see the problem that arises for people who have no money to go to a testing centre? Is the Minister prepared to extend the test infra to a maximum of 20 minutes cycling distance? Is the Minister also prepared to keep this up when vaccination numbers increase, thereby reducing the number of people using it? If not, does the Minister see with our group that regional distribution of access tests or accompanying self-tests are essential to ensure that the concept of access tests takes place in a proportionate and non-exclusive manner? We read that the Minister has hesitations. Please respond from the Minister, whether he is prepared to allow guided self-tests at the entry date of the law, at least at locations where a test centre is not available for 20 minutes cycling. Let us be clear: as long as testing centres are not close or low-threshold, access tests should only be used for situations where many people come together and the 1.5 metres are not held. For essential sectors and other situations, this does not seem to be proportionate. I'd like a response. On this point, too, we are considering a motion with the PvdA. We wish Mr Karakus every success in his maiden speech. Then the European certificate. Unlike the Dutch scheme, it can be seen which vaccine someone has had, how many doses, when, and whether they have been ill. Does the Minister intend to use the green certificate in the Netherlands as an admission ticket? If so, how does the Minister intend to deal with the difference in information displayed and used? Our main concern is that inexperienced commercial providers, such as cleaning companies and glass cleaners, will do this data collection. Then they work with highly sensitive data, such as bsn numbers and passport numbers. They have access to store them in our medical records. How does the Minister weigh the risk of data leaks and fraud, including identity fraud? Why are the retention periods of a negative test not much shorter than four weeks and of a positive test? Is there an opt-out, a possibility if you do not want to be registered as a positive tested person for a long time? Because function creep with the data is lurking, given the rumors about one shot in people who have had a positive corona test. I would like a reaction from the cabinet to this, so that citizens can decide for themselves what the results of a festival test are used for. The Minister writes that companies need to do a data protection impact assessment. How many companies have done and endured this by now? What type of problems have arisen in this regard? Is the data protection actively monitored after the first instance, if so how, and how extensive is the monitoring of the implementation? Finally, the issue of enforcement. Personally, I always get very unhappy when we get letters from executive organisations, such as the VNG, that they do not want to take on a particular task. How does the Minister see the use of access tests being effective and successful when in practice they are never asked for and never checked for their use? In short, how is it going to organise enforcement? In short, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance still sees some bears on the road of this law. We will be very interested to hear the response of the ministers. In addition to Mr Karakus, I wish Mr Keunen every success in his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. Then I give the floor to Mr Janssen, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with a general part on the extension of the Temporary Measures Law covid-19, the Twm, and then I will go into the legislative proposals on corona admissions and quarantine obligations. Mr. Chairman. When we go back over a year, we come at a time when we started talking about restricting fundamental rights to deal with the COOVID-19 pandemic. I start with this, because the awareness that we still, and increasingly, restrict fundamental rights seems to be subject to erosion. We are talking about measures, tools in the toolbox, exceptions and facilitations, but behind all these terms we are hiding our fundamental rights. Especially in the First Chamber, that's what it has to be about, over and over again. That is why it is a good thing that we are having this debate on the extension of the Twm today, because of the restriction of fundamental rights you need to be awake. The starting point is that fundamental rights are safeguarded, cherished and defended. You don't want to get involved with fundamental rights. If there is no other way, for the sake of combating the pandemic, then any violation of fundamental rights must feel like a stone in the shoe, which, at every step, causes increasing discomfort and reminds us that it is not normal for fundamental rights to be restricted and that it should never become normal. Does the Cabinet share this view? If we look at the list of measures added to the Twm since its entry into force on 1 December 2020, that gives cause for concern. The government wants to add two further laws today, and then the power to shut down buildings, such as prayer houses, is in the pipeline. This ever-increasing restriction of fundamental rights leads to growing concerns, also because the temporaryity of the Twm is under pressure. How temporary is the Twm? It is a temporary law designed to protect public health in a temporary crisis. But the temporary nature of the crisis is increasingly under discussion. This means that the discussion must be conducted as to whether this law, as a temporary law and the associated parliamentary control, is still in place. That question is answered by my group for several reasons. This temporary law to protect public health should remain temporary and should not become permanent. If we want to prepare ourselves for future pandemics, this calls for a discussion on what the new legal frameworks of measures and control should comply with. We must not leave the Public Health Act rigged with all the temporary possibilities of restricting fundamental rights in the way that is currently regulated. In addition, according to my group, the Public Health Act is increasingly being used as a legal basis for economic considerations in measures. That cannot and must not be the case. The Public Health Act is the legal basis for action to protect public health. The written reply refers to Article 8 of the ECHR, which allows the restriction of fundamental rights for the sake of the country's economic well-being, when the Minister raises this point. I am not going to discuss the case law of that article here, but that is really something other than basing economic considerations on the Public Health Act. That's not what the law is for. It's the Public Health Act, not the Economic Welfare Act. It can be predicted that a judge will reach the same judgment at any time on request. The government should see that now. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. The next point is whether the legal basis for the measures with the rapidly increasing vaccination rate and the OMT's opinion on the infection after vaccination remains sustainable. In particular, considering proportionality, this can be called into question. Is there another legal basis for a vaccinated person or someone who's cured? After all, all the measures taken are based and tested on assumptions and assumptions that are now behind us. This means that all measures require a review and a new proportionality test. If the government doesn't, a judge will definitely do it in the future. Please understand me: I am not saying that COOVID-19 has disappeared or that measures are no longer needed. I am talking about the legal sustainability of the existing measures in very different circumstances. Does the Minister share this view and is action now being taken on it? Or does the Cabinet bring it up to a court order, after which we have to restore it with emergency laws? The changed circumstances of becoming more and more vaccinated or cured of the population lead, as the government calls it, to relaxations. But what we are talking about, of course, I said that just now, as I said, is the reduction of violations of fundamental rights. The image that the government evokes with relaxation is that of a government that gives people something. But you can't give me something that's not yours. Fundamental rights were, are and will always belong to individual people. You're taking a little less; that's what's happening. That seems like a semantic discussion, but it's not. A violation of fundamental rights must always be as short as necessary. The lifting of the violation of fundamental rights by the government is not a question of will, but of must. We have seen around curfew that, in my group's view, false arguments were actually used. There seems to be little social resistance and there is little problem with compliance. That was, in my opinion, an inappropriate argument used to prolong that curfew. Social acceptance is crumbling. That was an argument when it came to abolishing it, but those are not, of course, the arguments that we are talking about in the context of legal considerations. This kind of polluted debate on fundamental rights shows that the starting point that you stay away from fundamental rights is erode, as I said at the beginning of my speech. All the concerns I have expressed so far about the Twm, its temporaryity and its legal sustainability, lead the SP Group to the conclusion that the Temporary Law measures covid-19 should be terminated and that the extension should also be the last extension by 1 June 2021. This gives the government time to come up with replacement legislation before 1 September, which is based on a new weighting of proportionality for what is necessary to limit fundamental rights in the context of public health in this new reality, and also as it will develop in the coming months, with appropriate parliamentary control. But that requires action now. I would like a response from the ministers. Mr. Chairman. That then immediately fits in with the Janssen and others motion. and the De Boer c.s. motion, which, as I see it now, adds an extra modality to the letter we received earlier, a modality that would have been called the nuclear option six months ago, but which, as far as we are concerned, is very real, namely: you are not extending any more. The Lego experiment has recently received media attention, especially with the writing press. How do you solve anything? Not by adding anything, but by removing something. That might actually be the most beautiful thing to say about a motion: not so much that it is being carried out, because that is to restore a situation that you do not want, but that it becomes superfluous. That would be very nice. Mr. Chairman. But before I go into the two legislative proposals for testing and quarantine, I would like to make a general comment. It strikes me that, from my administrative practice, I have experience of this myself, that as a director, you have to make a translation of scientific advice. I note that the cabinet sometimes interprets the opinions very selectively. One current example I would like to mention is the full opening of secondary schools. I do not want to deal with that now, but I would like to mention it as an example. The press release of the Ministry of Education says: "The secondary schools will be open again on Monday 31 May. Students don't have to keep their distance from each other. However, they have to test themselves twice a week at home. From Monday 7 June, all schools must be fully open. This is justified, according to the Outbreak Management Team." But that's not what the OMT advised. The OMT gives the following opinion: "In view of the above considerations, the OMT considers that further opening of secondary education, with the 1.5-meter measure no longer applicable, can only be carried out if all pupils carry out a self-test twice a week under supervision." Thus, a full opening of secondary education, whereby the 1.5 meter is released, can only be performed twice a week under supervision by all pupils. If not all pupils do so and it is not supervised, secondary education cannot be fully open without keeping a distance of 1.5 metres. That's what the OMT says. Doesn't the cabinet give a very free translation of the OMT opinion? Because self-tests are also voluntary and there is certainly no mention of accompanying them, which cannot be controlled either. So it becomes an illusion that the opening, as it is now foreseen, will meet the conditions of the OMT for a safe opening. This is quite apart from the fact that all schools in secondary education are about to enter the test weeks and that there will be no regular education in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u36	I am not going to debate the point that the OMT opinions should be correctly represented, because that seems to me to be a good idea. However, I would like to ask another question about volunteering and testing in schools versus not taking action. Mr Janssen outlines a situation as if the schools could open, but if you do not use those self-tests, education will remain closed for the time being. The search is: what can you do and what happens if students do not do a test twice a week? Then the numbers rise and that measure will be reversed. Isn't that some kind of hand-to-the-crane principle that takes this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mrs Kluit outlines a contradiction by saying that the schools are now closed, but the schools are not closed. My wife teaches high school. She's just teaching. There are half classes. They're all seeing each other, and they're hanging out with each other. They're only half-class. The schools aren't closed, so Mrs. Kluit shows a false contradiction here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u38	I'm trying to pull it one level higher, because it's not just about the here and now. It's also about the principle. The principle is: you recommend using self-tests for a particular group. They have certain risks, for example because people are not doing well or because the test is not reliable. But in the end, you'll see the effect of that in the contagion rates. If they go up too much, you get a different conclusion, but maybe they don't get up at all. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u39	It's possible. It is possible that none of the 80,000 employees, who have not been vaccinated for the most part, will become ill. But it is also possible that they all get sick and that the families of the employees and the pupils are infected. I really think that's a false contradiction. My consideration is that part of education is being given at the moment and that it is now accelerating the opening up of schools, with a lot of unvaccinated staff, with a lot of students who may also take infections home and with many old buildings, which the VO Council also says is not yet in order, is simply not sensible. I did not intend to deal with this whole proposal here, but I see a different contradiction from Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mrs. Kluit, third? No. You continue your argument, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. I said something about the employees. The vast majority has not yet been vaccinated and is now exposed to risks. It is said: yes, but there is now an accelerated vaccination. But even in the most favourable case, with the Janssen vaccine, they are still unprotected for two weeks after that. I think we should take that risk into account. I make this point to show that this is an administrative translation of an OMT opinion. I'll get back to you on the quarantine duty later. I know it from practice. I know how unmanageable it can sometimes be to make an administrative translation of RIVM opinions. We have experienced something similar around a factory in Dordrecht. The Minister of IenW knows that too. We asked: can people still just eat out of their vegetable garden and drink water? Then there was an opinion on drinking the number of litres of pure groundwater per day, which we thought was: who is drinking pure groundwater today; what should we do with this? Sometimes it's hard to make that translation. The only thing I would like to point out is that sometimes this is a little optimistic from the cabinet side. I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the bill on the corona tickets. The first question that my group is examining in this legislative proposal is whether the proposal is ready to be implemented in a good way. That's a point the First Chamber should take seriously. When I look at the answers to the written questions, there are more than serious doubts about that in my group. The question of how many of the parties currently have NEN 7510 certification is the Minister's answer that none of the test providers is currently certified according to standard NEN 7510. That was a condition, wasn't it? However, according to the Minister, this does not mean that the conditions of NEN 7510 are not met. All test providers are requested to provide their own explanation prior to their connection, in the context of the process of connection to the coronacheck. But that is very thin ice, because then all they are going to do is check whether they are going to meet this on paper. That doesn't mean anything about the execution. That's really thin ice. The reply also shows that five out of the seven parties do not yet meet the conditions for connection and one is conditionally connected. However, according to the Minister, the test providers concerned indicate that they are working to meet the requirements, so that admission is possible in the short term. For my group, this is a clear signal that implementation is not yet in order and that it is unclear whether and when it will be. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. The rapid evolution in the vaccination rate seems to make up for the current test measures proposed in the coming months. I already talked about that in the part of my contribution about the Twm. I spoke in particular about the proportionality of the restrictive measures versus fully vaccinated persons. When does the Minister expect an opinion from the OMT on the basis of the recent opinion of the Health Council? Did the minister ask OMT to advise on this matter as a matter of urgency? Are the test measures legally sustainable when the vaccination rate is as high as expected? And how great is the added value if the vaccination rate so increases? The government indicates that access tests at step 6 of the open plan will no longer be considered. In order to be able to take step 6, as with all the steps in the open plan, we will look at the number of reproductions and the pressure on care, the ic-recordings and hospitalisations, according to the Minister. Can the Minister clarify this further and make it concrete? Because the establishment of an expensive access testing infrastructure, which will soon prove unnecessary, does not seem to my group to be a desirable route. If the Minister is of the opinion that this test law will be of particular use if the virus is re-emerging after the summer, then my group would like to call for the implementation to be put in order first on the front so that any suppliers can carry out certified and qualified tests after the summer, if necessary. My advice would therefore be: will you come back with this law if implementation is in order and if there is a need at that time. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the bill on quarantine. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister to consider the current measure taken by Germany to declare a ban on entry into the United Kingdom, subject to certain exceptions, including its own nationals. How does this relate to the government's intention to abolish flight bans when the quarantine obligation is introduced, now a large direct neighbour, with which there is a lot of transit traffic, has taken this measure towards the United Kingdom? Mr. Chairman. What is more striking is the translation of the advice. I've been talking about that before. As regards the quarantine obligation, the Minister replied in the written reply: "The OMT and the RIVM have indicated that a quarantine obligation is the most effective means of preventing the virus and its variants from spreading." Two sentences further, the minister says: "The OMT states in its 102nd opinion that pre-testing with a well-respected quarantine is equivalent to a flight ban." What is it? Is it equivalent or is it the most effective? Those aren't the same things. I have also looked for where this would be in the opinion on the 102nd OMT opinion, but it simply is not there. What the OMT finds is that there is still a flow of nationals and EU citizens to high-risk areas, including holidays. My question is, why don't you do something about it? Why does travel have to continue? This is an example of how the cabinet translates its wish, or its "political choice," as the Minister of IenW said in the House of Representatives, from an opinion. Can the Minister clarify what political considerations the cabinet has made in order to replace flight bans with a quarantine obligation? My written questions on whether economic interests have been taken into account have not been answered. That's why I'd like to hear it from the Minister today. Mr. Chairman. My second question concerns the change in the government's views on the quarantine obligation. I strongly ask for this, because the Minister of JenV in particular, during debates in January and February, tried to convince me that a quarantine obligation, as in Germany, which was mentioned as an example, would not be effective and would not be enforceable. Now, five months later, that quarantine obligation is the solution. Municipal enforcers had enough to do according to the minister, and wasting police would be a shame. I quote from the debate on 8 January: "If you want to do a good quarantine, you must of course be sure that someone does not leave that quarantine. But I don't think we can get through your parliament to put people on an anklet or something like that." That "an anklet or something" has now become a friendly employee of the call team of VWS, but you understand that the Minister's condition that you must be sure that no one is going out of quarantine, in this way raises great questions about effectiveness and enforcement. I would like to hear in a response how and why the cabinet has come to this change of opinion and how the solution proposed now complies with the view of the JenV Minister that you should be sure that someone is not going out of quarantine. With regard to the feasibility and enforcement of the quarantine obligation, I have a number of additional questions. It seems that the situation assumed mainly concerns nationals with permanent residence and residence. However, the lifting of a flight ban will mainly involve non-nationals without permanent residence or residence. Everyone will have to fill out a quarantine certificate, but if you don't have it on arrival in the Netherlands and you don't want to fill it out, you will pay a limited fine of €95 and you can continue your journey. The absence of a quarantine certificate is not grounds for refusing entry into the Netherlands. So these people disappear and they're out of control. For less than €100 you can go and stand wherever you want, without the control of the VWS bubble team and municipal supervisors. Does the Minister really think that this is a good system that effectively protects our public health? Is this really better and more effective than not getting these people to the border with a no-flying ban? Mr. Chairman. The capacity of municipal supervisors will also determine whether this proposal can actually be implemented and enforced effectively. Will it be up to the regulators to decide for themselves whether to follow up on the signals from the call team? Where will this be in the priority list of these boas, which have been overasked for too long? And is there actually tracked how many reports come from the call team and what the follow-up of those reports will be? Anyone with some knowledge of supervision and enforcement will see that this will not work in advance unless you adjust the expectations and the demands downwards, in the sense of "everything succeeds, is well taken away." But that is very far from what the OMT and RIVM see as implementation to achieve a result comparable to a flight ban. Mr. Chairman. I am also very concerned about the answers I received about the situation of asylum seekers and refugees and the situation of migrant workers. The COA has established quarantine sites at the locations for residents infected or potentially infected with COVID-19, the Minister replied. But are these individual, self-contained units with their own facilities, or are those facilities shared with others who are also infected? So you put people in different stages of infection together and mixed up. I don't think that's a good solution. I'd like a response. To my question what has been arranged for status holders who are awaiting accommodation, I did not receive an answer. I'd like to get an answer to that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the migrant workers. My question as to how a final approach is put in place to ensure that migrant workers who are deemed to be in quarantine are actually able to do so has not been answered. These people can't usually go into quarantine because they don't have independent living space. If they can't work again because they're sick, they don't have a roof over their heads. If they already have a roof, it's a home shared with many others. I am referring to the fire we had last week in The Hague. According to the commander of the fire department, there were ten to fifteen people in one room when you started counting the mattresses. Even in gazebos were mattresses. That is the harsh reality. But that brings with it all the risk of new infections. Apart from the existing problem of housing for migrant workers, read the Roemer report, it is currently a major public health problem. How does the Cabinet deal with these potential fireplaces? I quote: 'The cabinet will, in regular consultation with social partners, draw attention to the proper implementation of the quarantine obligation'. In short, the cabinet lets it go and sees no role for itself. My group believes that this is impossible and unacceptable, because it entails major risks of contamination. I would like to respond to this point, because doing nothing is not an option for my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a domestic announcement. Because of an overlap today with an expert meeting of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Anti-discrimination, of which I am a member, I will have to leave the debate at 3.30 p.m. and therefore miss a part, for which I apologise. I wish Mr Karakus of the PvdA and Mr Keunen of the VVD success in their maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a brief introduction, after which I shall proceed to the treatment of the so-called 'test law' and the law on quarantine. In conclusion, I am talking about the proposed extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. Mr. Chairman. My group has supported a great many of the measures taken to combat the corona virus in recent months. Even the law on the introduction of the CoronaMelder, which was not exactly a success. In the meantime, we're a year away. Much more is known about the development of the virus and its medical control capabilities. At present, the most vulnerable groups, including the elderly and persons with underlying diseases, have been able to provide a voluntary vaccine. According to the government's coronadashboard, about 8.3 million shots are currently in place. Crying to the jacks for that. In addition, the counter stands at more than 1.5 million people who have tested positive for corona and have therefore built up antibodies against covid in the blood, so that the desired group immunity gradually comes into view. My group has also looked at the countries in which vaccination rates are significantly higher than ours, and it builds confidence in them. Mr. Chairman. It is increasingly likely that corona, like other respiratory viruses, will remain among us. Maybe not in last year's disruptive form, but it's like endemic disease, which, like the flu, can rise with recurring regularity. But even an endemic disease does not justify a permanent limitation of civil liberties. Mr. Chairman. Ministers will now immediately argue that all the measures taken so far and the two legislative proposals before us are not permanent at all, but only temporary, and that both comply with the weighting of the principle of proportionality. Many questions have already been asked about this proportionality in the debate in the Lower House. My group is not going to repeat the questions here, because the answer to them is known. 50PLUS is in agreement with speakers who are going to discuss this in greater detail. I merely note that the tsunami of amendments and motions from the House of Representatives on both legislative proposals is a clear signal. There is also a lack of positive response from the population. From the hundreds of e-mails that reach us every day, you see the resistance increase, especially against the test law. Apparently, the citizen does not see the test law at all as an increase in freedoms or a relaxation of the current measures. No, the citizen sees this as another restriction of his fundamental rights, such as freedom of movement. And it is seen as an infringement of physical integrity, to undergo a mandatory test for every visit to a catering establishment, a cultural institution or an event. The Minister apparently loves his so-called toolbox, to which he adds more and more instruments for possible situations like that. Every time he tells us that all measures are temporary. However, the expiry date for this test law is not until 1 July 2022. What this "temporarily" means and what are the basic requirements for stopping that mandatory testing, is completely unclear in this legislative proposal. Can the Minister reflect on this again? Mr. Chairman. In the Lower House, the Minister of VWS said that he expected that you would no longer need access tests for most settings in the summer. I think the month of June will start in five days, so are we going to build a whole test infrastructure for just one month? Has my group understood that correctly? I'd like an answer from the Minister. In the written round of questions, 50PLUS pointed out the possible unreliability of test results and their sensitivity to fraud. First of all, no test is 100% accurate and there is always a chance of a false negative or a false positive result. The validity of a test certificate is limited: only 40 hours. The test results can only be received by e-mail. You will then have to convert the test result into a test certificate in the CoronaCheck app or print it out. These actions may be self-evident to the Minister, my group points out that older people, people with limited financial resources or low-skilled people are too complex or practically impossible because they do not have iPhones, printers and computers. Mandatory testing causes a clear division in society, which my group considers undesirable. 50PLUS has serious doubts as to whether this test law will contribute to the safe or accelerated opening up of society to everyone and notes that this law does force, but that the practical exercise is critical. Mr. Chairman. Let's move on to the quarantine bill. The introduction of a quarantine obligation should prevent a traveller from importing dangerous mutants from a high-risk area, which is by definition arbitrary, into the Netherlands. The motivation for the quarantine obligation is that the applicable flight ban can then be lifted. However, in the legislative proposal itself, 24 categories are excluded from this obligation and this number has been supplemented once again after treatment in the Lower House. The quarantine obligation, a house arrest, basically lasts ten days. The public authorities have the right to monitor their compliance. The checks shall be carried out by a call team of 10 persons. In the event of an alleged non-compliance with the quarantine, extraordinary investigators may visit to check that someone is actually in quarantine. Perpetrators receive a high fine and a note in the Judicial Documentation system. My group is concerned about the final penalty. This was previously introduced at the mandatory 1.5 meters, but was removed by pressure from the House of Representatives, when it appeared that its execution was arbitrariness. I would like a reflection from the Minister: why does he now consider this measure to be proportionate? Does he think there would be no arbitrariness right now? Mr. Chairman. My group considers it only logical and reasonable that people who are fully vaccinated and therefore pose a very low transmission risk should be relieved of both the testing requirement and the quarantine obligation, as well as proof that this can be done safely, according to the Minister. My group would like to make the following comments. First of all, vaccinees have benefits, an advantage over the group that wants to be vaccinated on a voluntary basis, but which is not yet due to age: young people. Secondly, it can lead to indirect coercion to vaccination, while 50PLUS uses voluntary vaccination as its starting point. Thirdly, this exemption does not apply to countries where a mutant goes around against which the vaccine is not protected, but it will not be known immediately. How is the Minister going to demonstrate the waiver of vaccination in conjunction with the safety he requires? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It is known that the registration of vaccinations in the Netherlands does not deserve a beauty prize, because the registration systems are not aligned. Already it turns out that some people are called up twice to get a vaccine: once because they fall into a certain age group and once because they work in care, for example. How does the Minister intend to solve the problem of unmistakable provable vaccination on such short notice? Several groups expressed concerns in the written round about the persistence of the quarantine obligation. As has been said, there will be a call team of ten, but when the tourism sector opens, with a large influx as a result, it is not very realistic to expect that such a number is sufficient. Does the Minister think so, or does he think those ten people are enough? Mr. Chairman. The Minister has pledged financial resources to the municipalities, which are responsible for the implementation of the mobile teams responsible for monitoring compliance with the quarantine obligation. That's good. So municipalities can hire extra people for this task. But does the Minister also realise that these people need to be trained, that they are given powers that do not have every citizen, such as the issuing of fines and the taking of notes in the Judicial Documentation system? So putting in a temp or a flex worker is not possible, while the summer vacation is already within four weeks. Has the Minister had direct contact with the implementing agencies to verify that they can cope with this additional burden and have sufficient time to prepare? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, the Twm. The duration of this Act expires on 1 June 2021, which removes restrictive measures. Today is another three-month extension. With the agreement of this Chamber, the Twm will apply until 1 September 2021. According to the explanatory statement, renewal can only be carried out if there is a direct threat of an epidemic. At the beginning of my speech, I mentioned the road we have now taken and the improved situation in the Netherlands with regard to COOVID-19. At present, it appears that the requested extension is mainly based on risk avoidance. Does it mean extending restrictive measures for the sake of safety, purely because of the eventuality of a possible new outbreak? In this context, can the Minister again address the requirement for the immediate threat of the epidemic? Or does he have information that is not known to us and which makes this extension absolutely necessary? I'd like an answer. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. My final question is this time to the Minister of JenW. How many extensions of a temporary law are legally permissible: is that limited or infinite? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mrs Prins, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate Mr Karakus and Mr Keunen on their maiden speech, which they will be expressing in due course. I would like to begin by saying, on behalf of my group, that we are pleased that the number of corona virus infections and the number of withdrawals in hospitals and on the ic's is falling significantly and that vaccinations are getting well on steam. And also that the cabinet responds to this alertly through the relaxation of various measures. It's good news that society can open up little by little. We would like to thank the cabinet and the many workers behind it and all around it for the hard work that has been done over the last year and a half. We have respect and great appreciation for that. At the same time, the CDA Group also needs some reflection. We are aware that in these exciting and uncertain times, when decisions on legislation and various measures had to be taken under high pressure of time, you cannot foresee everything in advance and that not everything is going as you expected. But that is precisely why we believe that the coming months are so valuable. Of course for a more than well-earned holiday, but hopefully also for some looking back and looking at the future under less time pressure. For in the last few months, despite our appreciation, we also had some doubts. We'll name a few. Was stopping vaccination with the AstraZeneca vaccine for people under 60 really the most appropriate decision? Vaccinate as soon as possible. Vaccinate everyone is the best way to protect vulnerable citizens, to put regular care on track and to reopen society. The risk of death of the coronavirus was 1 to 1.3% according to RIVM. The chance of dying of the AstraZeneca vaccine 0.000072% according to the figures of the European Medicines Agency, i.e. 18 deaths in 25 million vaccinations across Europe. The advice of the Health Council to use a different vaccine would make sense, but it should be available. Of course, one death due to the vaccine AstraZeneca gets a lot of attention. This is a human being with a face, especially in relation to the more............................................................................................................... Should we not, as a society, and certainly we here in politics and therefore here in the First Chamber, become aware of the fact that life is full of risks, that is to say, that every decision carries risks? In other words, it is precisely as a government that you have to make choices on rational grounds and explain them: which considerations and which risks come with decisions. In such a way, as a government and a parliament, to proclaim that there is no society without risks; that every decision is to find a careful balance between advantages and disadvantages. We also call for attention to be paid to the management of the GGDs. With appreciation and respect for the many work done by the employees of the GGD, we note that due to the lack of uniform control time has been lost and the effectiveness could really have been better. It's incomprehensible to the public. In Limburg, the GGD first, then again does not use and later on it will use the pivoting of vaccines for other target groups. Is one GGD willing to include your vaccination certificate in the vaccination passport, the other turns out not to be. The GGD determines loud and clear in advance that, even though several test streets are regularly empty, they are certainly not going to do commercial tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u46	I suddenly notice a remarkable moving insight from Mrs Prins of the CDA, because during the discussion on the Temporary Law measures COVID-19 last year I clearly indicated that the polder structure in the Netherlands with these GGDs is not workable to combat this corona epidemic quickly. That was once denied by Minister Grapperhaus. It was all perfectly fine according to the Minister. Where does this suddenly progressive insight come from? Mr Rouvoet also said this morning that the organisation is not crisis-proof, I ask Mrs Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u47	Sometimes it's time to look back. However, we have never said in a contribution we made here in the First Chamber that we felt otherwise. We have not discussed the subject of the GGD. However, we have discussed another subject, namely the temporary nature of the laws in a crisis situation. I would like to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u48	No, but it's been on the table. I am sure that I will be able to look it up in the Acts later on. Last year the cabinet pointed this out very much: go and streamline that organisation, because that is not how we get there with vaccination policy; that is far too complicated and too poachy. But then it was said from the cabinet side, by the two CDA executives, of your party, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I see now that you have at least come to the conclusion that that was not the correct conclusion at the time. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u49	I note that you are confusing two things: the opinion of the cabinet on the one hand and our contribution here in the CDA-Room Group on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u50	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u51	For example, the argument for many unclear to open the gyms for the work on physical condition but not the museums and other cultural institutions or, as philosopher Joke Hermsen called it, "in the Python we should not listen to Bach or look at Mondrian," as if we should not work hard on our mental and mental condition in these times. Mr. Chairman. We also wonder which tasks a ministry should or should not take up. It is unprecedented what has been done in recent times. As has already been said, that deserves a great compliment. However, the question is which activities are best suited to the strengths and competences of a ministry. Policy development is really a different metier than policy implementation. Would the use of Defence on logistical issues such as testing or vaccination not have been logical and efficient? What is in a crisis the best guidance of the GGDs? Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the corona crisis has been raging for a year and a half. We cannot escape the impression that little is being done proactively, as is the case, for example, with the proposed legislation on corona admission certificates and the quarantine obligation. When developing scenarios and route plans, these options could have been identified for a long time. Presorting these possibilities and their consequences could, in our opinion, have been the subject of discussion before. In addition, there is a worldwide belief that the corona virus remains among us, or that our society is threatened by other violent viruses. It is also unknown how long the vaccines provide protection. The development of a new, more intense variant is, unfortunately, a realistic scenario. The CDA Group therefore wonders whether the use of these temporary laws and regulations is still appropriate in view of future expectations. It is always a measure on a measure. In a year of crisis and uncertainty, that is certainly understandable. However, we are still in a crisis, but no longer in a crisis situation. Is it not now time to think about the future, to develop scenarios and see how we are dealing with the corona virus as a society in the coming years, or to take into account the experiences of the last 18 months and a half, as mentioned earlier in this contribution? To see how, in a future with a virus, damage to our freedoms is kept to a minimum? We are pleased to receive from the Cabinet the commitment of a vision of the future in a society with viruses, and what consequences this may have for our laws and regulations, in order to get away from temporary laws and regulations so that this can be taken into account in the regular parliamentary treatment. Mr. Chairman. We support the need for the temporary measures covid-19 to be extended for three months. Fortunately, the government's explicit commitment to the scaling-off is actually happening quickly wherever possible. The intention to bring forward step three of the open plan from 9 to 5 June is also a clear proof of this for us. In this context, I would now like to refer to the two concrete legislative proposals. The use of corona tickets evokes many, often very emotional reactions. From "happily another step towards an open society" to "dramatic, so we become a test society, where is our freedom?'. The obligation of a test certificate for so-called non-essential institutions and events is also intense. It also violates the freedoms we are used to. It is, very practically speaking, an extra effort to have you tested at a location first. That takes time, is sometimes annoying and is of course not what you want, used to if we were to get a movie theater depending on your wishes, or the impulse for example. Before the corona crisis, you just did. At the same time, we want to put the necessary nuance to the fierceness and sometimes aggression of the opponents. Many people are vaccinated against various diseases when visiting tropical or more southern countries. In such a case, you take the vaccination passport with you on a journey. When you visit a country like this, you take those vaccinations for granted. Does this not apply to the temporary measure of corona admissions, especially if this evidence is later based on a negative test, vaccination or immunity? No vaccination duty, but more room. You can get back on the road, but you are being asked for a precaution; for yourself and for your fellow man. The CDA Group does have questions about the use and target group definition of the ticket. Pilots show that the number of visitors to various events or activities for which a test certificate is requested is less than expected. Pre-testing reduces enthusiasm. At the same time, several museums and other cultural institutions have recently gained experience with strict protocols, which has worked very well. Is it not possible to give space to museums and other cultural institutions? Or a tight protocol, or tickets. We ask the Minister to respond to the call from these institutions for another option. We also believe it is very important that vaccination and immunity form the basis for the ticket of entry as soon as possible. We understand that last week the Health Council gave its advice. Such an opinion was requested by the Minister on 2 March this year. However, it takes more than two months for the opinion to become available. The Robert Koch Institute in Germany has done it much before. Can the Minister indicate what caused the delay at the Health Council? Doesn't the Health Council recognize the urgency of this? We ask the Minister not to have tighter guidance on this matter. After all, due to this slowness, there is also a delay in the processing of the vaccination certificate as an option for the admission ticket. We are very interested in the statements of the Health Council on this matter. Maybe there's room for this afternoon. Mr. Chairman. I have just referred to the so-called yellow book, an internationally known passport that is used all over the world. It is, as we understand it, only an official document for the whole concern. That is why the government is now working with Europe on the Digital Green Certificate. That is a clear solution, but we still have some concern about the feasibility, when we read how complex the processing of the vaccinations from the RIVM system to the coronacheck app is. The RIVM system lacks data from a million vaccinees. Can the Minister tell us how this can be resolved quickly? One last question about this law. This concerns the digital safety of the test certificates. Test providers shall provide a self-certification that they comply with the NEN 7510. There is no check that test providers have actually done a data protection impact assessment. This seems to us to be an undesirable situation given the sensitivity of the data. Can the Minister indicate how he can better guarantee digital security? Are we still being tested? Is there an obligation before test providers can work? We can be brief about the temporary law on quarantine. We understand that incoming travellers from very high-risk areas are required to be quarantined. The risk of infection is too high. However, we call for attention to be paid to enforcement, which we consider difficult to enforce, partly in view of the growing appeal of both temporary laws to the supervisory staff, of whom a great deal has been asked for over the past period on various fronts. So much for our contribution, Mr. Chairman. We are curious about the answers of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Mr Van Strien on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u53	I hear it's CDA for quarantine duty, but there's some reservations about enforcement. But if it's just written in black and white that it doesn't make any sense at all, what about the CDA's point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u54	I have some difficulty in saying that enforcement would not make any sense, so I cannot answer that. I have a different view of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u55	I have just been told by Mrs Prins that she is asking questions about this to the Minister: what about this manageability and can this be done? That's why my question: if you can predict in advance that you can't knock on everyone's door and go inside and see if they're all in quarantine, and if you want to avoid that kind of situation, how does the CDA look at this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u56	We believe that the idea behind the quarantine law is very important, namely to do everything to prevent the contamination of people coming from very high-risk areas. That is why we ask the Minister and the Cabinet to look at the enforcement. Can extra energy be used on that? We are positive about the starting point and have questions about how it is being taken up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mr. Van Strien, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u58	I welcome this third opportunity, because it is getting even more disturbing now. I now understand from the CDA that there is even a question as to whether the enforcement measure still needs to be strengthened to keep people in quarantine at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mrs. Prince, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u60	We have indeed asked the question of how to properly shape the enforcement for those people for whom the quarantine obligation is desired, as shown by the various documents. That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u61	I heard that reference was made to the Minister's application to the Health Council and to the fact that this took so long. But that advice is available. If you read that advice, I'll understand. Perhaps they waited a long time because they were waiting for more research. The study says that there are hardly any good studies from which you can distil that vaccination will lead to no more transmission of COVID-19. I would therefore like a response from the CDA to that aspect. I understand from the speaker that she says, "When you get your vaccination, you're done."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u62	First of all, we note that we have not officially had any reaction from the cabinet to the opinion of the Health Council. The official advice did not arrive until 20 May. That is why we are asking the clear question as to whether this will not take too long. A solid institute such as the Robert Koch Institute in Germany has given advice on this much earlier. As far as we know, vaccination versus testing seems to be an excellent way to ensure that the transmission is much smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u63	I don't quite understand. You say "as far as I know now," but I assume that the CDA, like the Animal Party, has read that advice from the Health Council. You can just check that on the site. Then Mrs Prins will see that it is clear that what she is putting forward is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u64	That is a difference in interpretation, Mr President, because we find, also on the basis of other institutions, such as the Robert Koch Institute, that it is quite possible. That is why we are asking for a ruling from the cabinet on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u66	Mr. Chairman. While the Netherlands craves the return of our freedom, the outgoing cabinet with a pen section decides to extend the emergency law and the related measures for another three months, until 1 September. And that while hospitalizations and the number of infections have been falling rapidly for weeks. The outgoing cabinet is simply going through the next piece of carbon paper, with the imprint of the emergency law in force since 1 December 2020. A law that seriously restricts fundamental rights and civil liberties and provides the basis for taking very radical measures, measures which are unproven or effective, such as curfew, and which can even be proclaimed by day by day with this law. These are often measures that burden society with a huge bureaucracy, fines and patronage, and in practice do not effectively contribute to tackling the corona crisis. The Netherlands wants its freedom back. Many sectors can already be responsibly opened. As far as PVV is concerned, we are already stopping all measures and fines in the open air. There are virtually no infections there. This emergency law should not be extended as if it were a new normal. We just need to work on the return to the old normal. The extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, the Twm, has been duly substantiated by the Minister. For example, he stated in the decision: "The Twm and the measures taken on that basis are without prejudice to the need to combat the outbreak of COVID-19." The Minister makes an assumption here, without further supporting it. Can the Minister explain what this unabated necessity is based on? Why does the Minister not provide verifiable indicators for the extension of this law and measures, as requested in the Van Hattem motion adopted at the time of the introduction of the Twm? I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister bases the extension decision on the 109th OMT opinion of 19 April. This opinion also states that the number of positive-tested subjects reported increased by 9% in the previous week. We are now more than a month and several OMT recommendations, and the number of positive tested persons and the number of hospital admissions show a clear decline since then, as can also be seen on the coronadashboard. Can the Minister explain why, when the extension decision entered into force on 1 June, he did not rely on the most up-to-date information, which shows a very different trend from developments at the beginning of April? Is the Minister prepared to reconsider these figures? The Minister also states: "However, all indicators still point to the fact that the current situation is very serious in relation to the level of risk." Can the Minister indicate which indicators he specifically refers to and what weighting factors and limit values he has used in these indicators? Furthermore, in its opinion accompanying this extension decision, the Council of State states: "For example, the state-of-the-art letter of 13 April 2021 on page 16 states that the number of daily hospitalisations is leading for the first relaxation, without considering the significance of the indicators mentioned above. The Section points out, for example, the R value, but also notes that the relationship between the open plan, the scaling-up of the roadmap and the significance of the indicators of the coronadashboard is unclear." In doing so, the Council of State is taking part in the criticism I made earlier in the interplay debate about the way in which the cabinet deals with indicators. The Minister did indicate certain issues as indicators, for example, in the interview debate "hospital admissions are the most decisive as epidemiological parameter," but the weighting factors in those indicators remain unclear. Can the Minister indicate how he intends to deal with this comment from the Council of State that the significance of these indicators is unclear? Can the Minister indicate whether he would like to take this criticism of the Council of State to heart for a more effective implementation of the Van Hattem motion? And to come back to the extension of the measures: if hospitalisations are the most decisive indicator, the extension of the emergency law would not be necessary, given the Minister's own logic. Can the Minister explain this and also explain why all kinds of measures are being continued which have no proven effect at all, such as outdoor measures, such as restrictions on terraces and, for example, the ban on the sale of alcohol by supermarkets after 8 p.m.? What are the indicators and weighting factors to assess the effectiveness of these measures? Why should catering entrepreneurs, shopkeepers and their customers continue to be unduly harassed by this state constraint and arbitrariness, if there is no evidence of any effect? Mr. Chairman. Finally, in 1984, the free market economist and Nobel Prize winner Milton Friedman wrote in his book Tyranny of the Status Quo: "Nothing is so permanent as a temporal government program." This Temporary Law measures covid-19 should not become increasingly permanent either. He shouldn't be the new normal. The Netherlands needs to get rid of this emergency law and get back to our old normal as soon as possible. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I am happy to give the floor to your group colleague, Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has not been so long since Corona was swept away by the RIVM as not important to our country. It would stay in China. People without symptoms, the so-called asymptomatic cases, couldn't transfer it, mouth caps served nothing, and so on. About a year ago, there was a massive panic: every day, the state broadcaster proclaims the life-threatening consequences of corona. The disaster year 1672, as we used to learn from patriotic history, seemed to repeat itself: the people unreasonably, the government distraught and the country unsaved. Indeed, in many cases the disease is more serious than a common flu. But over the whole year, the excess mortality seems to be not so bad, no matter how tragic for the people who were victims. For this occasion, I have studied the statistics. Let's first look at the 20,000 coronados that the CBS recently recorded before 2020, now raised to 25,000, much more than the 11,500 deaths reported at RIVM until 31 December 2020. If you click on the relevant CBS site, you will get a link to the underlying tables. If you look under the heading "Cause of death" there, then in 2020 a record of low mortality in respiratory diseases and cardiovascular diseases, i.e. not being corona. All diseases that occur in this area have fallen sharply and instead the number of coronadods is extremely high. There is only one conclusion to be drawn from this: that number of 20,000 or 25,000 coronadods is unreliable. Therefore, you can only look at "all-cause excess morality." And then there is excess mortality. Now you have the standard excess mortality rates, but if you want to take a good scientific approach, you actually have to look at the multi-year average of over-death rates by age group. This can be found, among other things, on EuroMOMO, the European mortality monitoring activity, which aims to detect and measure excess deaths due to seasonal flu, pandemics and other threats to public health. A Danish government organization publishes this. For example, you can see that the excess mortality, almost certainly due to corona, is only significant over 65 years and that under 45 years mortality falls within the normal range. A second site, with a wealth of information, is Our World in Data. There, for example, you can see the difference between the Netherlands and Sweden in excess mortality and the effect of lockdowns, curfews and mouth caps. There is virtually no effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u69	I am a little confused, because in my own practice I see quite a lot of patients who are sick because of corona and die. Do I not have it right in mind or have I misdiagnosed? Could you be more specific about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u70	I'm just looking at the statistics, taken all over the country. I don't look at individual cases. I know that there are also corona patients at a younger age; that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u71	I'd like to invite Mr. Van Strien to visit me at the clinic sometime. Then we can see what happens together. Maybe that'll give him a deeper insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u72	Again, I'm looking at the national statistics. For example, you can see the difference between Sweden and the Netherlands. There's almost no difference in excess mortality. One time Sweden is slightly higher and the other time the Netherlands is higher. On the whole, there's no difference. Much more important for mortality is the region. Mortality rates are almost entirely predictable on the basis of the region in which a country is situated. All of East Asia has virtually no excess mortality, regardless of the measures taken, while the mortality rate in Europe is very much higher than in East Asia. The difference between parts of East Asia and Western Europe is likely due to cross-immunity or T-cell immunity based on previous coronaviruses, such as SARS, MERS and the like. Of the measures taken by this cabinet, no one has any idea what the real effect has been or has been, except that the entire middle class is being destroyed. We have had an interplay debate on the Van Hattem motion for a resolution for a reason. The Minister simply cannot indicate the impact of each individual measure. It cannot indicate whether a curfew or a terrace closed at 18.00 hours has a different effect on the dispersal of corona than the raising of incense sticks or candles, the slaughter of a sacrificial sheep or the prayer of a rose hat. For the non-Catholics: that's it once around praying the rosary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u73	I still have difficulty with the two points of view of the PVV Group. On the one hand, you're trying to prove statistically, although that's not your job, that there's nothing going on, but at the same time there have to be measurable goals to prove it. But if there's nothing, there's nothing to measure and show, is there? Can Mr Van Strien explain that to me? Otherwise we'll be working on the Van Hattem motion all day long again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u74	I have made it very clear that there is excess mortality, that this excess mortality is significant over 65 years and that the statistics show that mortality below 45 years remains within the normal range. This means that measures can indeed be discussed. That's clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u75	It is quite amazing that I am destilling a very different tone from what Mr Van Strien has just said. Anyway, I'll think about it again. Perhaps I should understand Mr Van Strien statistically better, but I still cannot combine the two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u76	I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. I also recall what Ernst Kuipers, the chairman of the National Network of Acute Care, said some time ago at the RTL-talkshow Beau, namely that the introduction of curfew had no effect on hospital admissions. There's one thing we do know that works: vaccinate. And that is precisely where this minister falls very short. Scientists who weren't in front of the camera every day used their common sense and their worklust, and developed some vaccines. Several of them have now been approved and they work. Instead of setting up an efficient vaccination programme, with the aim of vaccinate anyone who wants it as soon as possible, this government has spent its time on press conferences and on taking steps to take away the people's freedom. In the meantime, the vaccination programme was slow and poorly organised. Every once in a while, lobby clubs were listened to and the crackling vaccination program was further delayed. Read the reconstruction of Marcia Nieuwenhuis in the Algemeen Dagblad of 17 April. The AstraZeneca program was temporarily discontinued, for inscrutable reasons, with the result that a large group of doubters will no longer be vaccinated. In the meantime, vaccination, albeit too slow, is the end of the pandemic. And what does our government do? It comes up with new laws to restrict our freedom, to begin with: the Temporary Law Test Certificates Covid-19. The government recognises that the obligation of a test certificate affects fundamental rights, including the right to physical integrity and the right to privacy. A limitation of these rights by the State is therefore required by law. Mr. Chairman. Despite the chaotic vaccination programme, sometime this summer we are over the critical threshold of vaccination. According to current estimates, this will be July. It could have been a little bit more pressing, but it's coming. As soon as the vaccination rate is reached, the government must stop violating citizens' fundamental rights and be permanently out of their private sphere. So get rid of the test evidence. Mr. Chairman. The second proposal introduces additional measures in relation to the existing measures applicable to travellers from designated high-risk areas. It provides that travellers who have stayed in a designated high-risk area and travel in the Netherlands on their own transport may also be required to have a negative test result when entering. This proposal also provides for a general home quarantine requirement for travellers who have stayed in a designated high-risk area prior to entry. Mr. Chairman. The fact that really dictatorial powers are needed to effectively control this second aspect is well known. If you're going to have limited control, it's gonna lead to randomness. Besides, you're on a dangerous slope. Why would you do that in a sufficiently vaccinated society? According to my group, there are only two possible answers: either the government is now addicted to dictatorial powers or the government itself does not believe in its vaccination programme. She's setting a very bad example with this bill. I would like to hear the Minister's precise reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention in advance that I am an intensivist and epidemiologist, and as such I am professionally involved in the subject of covid, which we are discussing today. However, the D66 Group does not consider that to be a problem. It finds it rather facilitating that practice and politics meet here. Today we are discussing the extension of the law on temporary measures covid-19. It's called "19," because the virus has been known since 2019, but in the meantime we're in 2021. A pandemic, according to history, always lasts several years. I call the plague, polio, H2N2 or H1N1 influenza, HIV, which has been around for over 40 years, and now SARS-CoV-2. My question to the Minister is how it is actually possible that RIVM and the Ministry have not managed the expectations from the outset over several years. Adequate expectation management makes the experienced burden more bearable. In addition, the measures and their communication with such a timeline may have been redesigned. Mr. Chairman. The Temporary Law measures, as part of the Wpg, are extended every three months. The question before us is whether the extension of the law is now necessary again. Based on the assumption that this pandemic is also multiannual and that there should be room for action for policy makers during the pandemic process, the answer is yes. However, its implementation, which is shaped by ministerial arrangements, should be dynamic, on the basis of the developments of the pandemic. The complexity of a phase of decreasing levels of contamination is that at a good time some measures and other measures are no longer necessary. The D66 Group asks the Minister how we can be assured that the implementation and application of the measures are appropriate to the state of the pandemic. This is relevant, now that the pandemic is at least temporarily similar to her return. If only one or few of the measures are to remain longer, then we must keep extending the entire temporary law time and time again, the D66 Group asks the Minister. But not only in terms of duration, but also in establishments, the measures must be dynamic. How is it possible, for example, that the department stores can receive dozens of visitors at once, but not yet cultural institutions such as museums and theatres? What is the underlying argument for this consideration of priorities? Museums are well able to maintain the basic rules, including the 1.5 meter distance, just as a Swedish warehouse can. Museums can do that even better, as we suspect, than sex workers can. This consideration of priorities is incomprehensible, as is the tone in which the Minister spoke about culture. This tone has deeply saddened and touched our group. We are therefore considering tabling a motion for a quick opening of museums in the second term. In that case, we would like to put that motion to the vote today. The D66 Group further asks: what can the cabinet learn from neighbouring countries, such as Belgium, where museums have remained open, so that museums in the Netherlands as much as possible remain open for the benefit of our mental health? Mr. Chairman. Managing an epidemic requires epidemiological weighting. In our written input, the D66 Group has requested an epidemiological weighting, concerning the use of the corona tickets. Not only the use of corona tickets, but all steps in the roadmap for the opening of society should be taken on the basis of the epidemiological situation. That is what the government is doing, but it is not clear in advance. That information isn't in the roadmap right now. There is only a date, which is uncertain, because it depends on the epidemiological situation. We have asked for this situation to be defined. Yet we think that there is a lower limit in the occurrence of covid in society, a limit under which the access tests are no longer meaningful. I'm counting on you if there are 5,000 infectious people in the Netherlands that was last summer the case of the 10 000 tested persons carrying the disease. Out of 10,000 people tested, 20 tested and false positive. So only 15% of all positive tested individuals actually have the disease. Moreover, it is uncertain whether these three people with the disease are able to make an epidemic worsen again in a largely vaccinated population. We would like to see these lower limits under which access tests are no longer meaningful. In the second term, our group, together with GroenLinks, is considering a motion calling for the epidemiological criteria, such as RIVM, which is published daily, to be included in the roadmap and in the ministerial arrangements, so that it becomes clear in advance in what epidemiological situation what measures apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u79	I am very pleased that Mr Van der Voort is speaking as an intensive care specialist. Over the last few days I have seen a very enlightening video on YouTube by your colleague in Amsterdam, Armand Girbes, also epidemiologists and intensive carers, about the sensitivity and specificity of the tests. He assumes 90% sensitivity and explains in that video convincingly that about half of the people would be wrongly denied access, because they do not actually have the disease. The consequences of a test that accidentally indicates that you do have it when you don't have it, and the other way around, are very big. Do you support that analysis? And if so, why does the D66 Group agree to this test law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u80	I am certainly aware of the calculations made by Mr Girbes. They're also correct. So it is true that at a good time, when there are not too many infectious people left, there are more false positive results than where positive results come from. He's right about that. That is precisely why we are asking this question to the Minister: to establish, establish and use the lower limit under which it is no longer useful to use these tests in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr Girbes is very clear and supports it. He says: it is an unworkable, priceless and ill-thought-out law. Do you share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u82	The law makes less sense if the number of infections decreases. So I share with him the thought that at a good time you should decide that it doesn't add anything to take such a test. That is exactly what we are asking for: to set that limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u83	Following on from the previous question on how useful it is to adopt that test law, I would like to hear from Mr Van der Voort whether he is aware that on 11 May an article was published on Follow the Money in which several branches were interviewed about the question: are you going to participate in this whole test situation? Then you see that the industry association of the cinemas says "we don't participate in this." Koninklijke Horeca Nederland finds it "undiscusable," the Museum association is critical and half of the theatres and concert stages will not participate either. How does your group see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u84	I think, as I just said, you need to look very carefully: when is testing people who are going to participate in an event meaningful and when isn't? If that limit is clear, you can simply decide on the basis of rational arguments who should use such a test. That institutions then decide not to participate, of course, they are free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u85	That's not my question. My question is how D66 looks at the fact that it's not gonna work for what it's meant for, because people themselves say we're not gonna cooperate in that stupid test and we're not gonna refuse people at the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u86	If we had this law in December, when the number of infections was high, then testing in advance is a way to give room to go to the cinema anyway. Now, of course, we are in a different situation. Hence the question is relevant when this way of working is still meaningful and when not. But in a situation where epidemiological elevation is high, this is certainly a useful tool, we believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u87	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u88	I'm not asking if testing makes sense, yes or no, I'm asking if D66 is going to support a law, while the organizations for which it is intended say: we think it's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u89	We are going to support this test policy, but preferably in a situation where it makes sense. Once again, it is up to the institutions and the sectors to decide whether or not they want to go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u90	I hear Mr Van der Voort of D66 calling for the museums to be reopened. Indeed, they should not be closed for an unnecessarily long time. He wants this because of the spiritual well-being and the spiritual entertainment. But the point is: there is also another form of spiritual entertainment, which is also very important. I mean the fairs. They take place in the outdoors and they just have to be able to open responsibly. Does Mr Van der Voort agree with the PVV that the fairgrounds should also be open, in the context of spiritual entertainment and important livelihoods for all those families and family businesses in the fairground sector that I do not know for how long can no longer earn dry bread?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u91	Any sector that is safe to open, under the measures we then take together, must be open as soon as possible. If the fairgrounds are to be able to do so within the framework of the basic measures, we believe that it should also apply to fairgrounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u92	Do I understand Mr Van der Voort's answer that if he calls for the museums to be opened, he should be able to open the fairs at least as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u93	Under conditions, such as the 1.5 meters and all other basic conditions, this should be possible. But the question is whether this can be done in the carnival sector; I do not know that and I am not about that either. But in principle, if you can comply with the measures that are sufficient to prevent a further spread of the epidemic, such a sector should be able to open up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u95	Apparently, Mr. Van der Voort can make that assessment for museums. The carnival industry claims to be able to open up responsibly, so I suppose that should be a viable map. I hope that Mr van der Voort agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u96	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. Speaking of prevention: how can it be that the past year has not focused on the treatment and prevention of overweight as the main influenceable risk factor for a serious disease progression and a high need for care? We understand that this focus makes no sense if it is expected that this pandemic lasts only a few weeks, but if the pandemic, and the demand for care, persists for more than a year. The role of overweight was already brought to my attention in March 2020 and subsequently confirmed in many scientific publications. On May 20th, a letter was sent about the Netherlands vitally and in motion. That's very nice, of course. In addition, there is the Prevention Agreement. However, the D66 Group asks the Minister whether this policy is not too late, too limited and too little focused on the main risk factor, namely overweight, to have an impact on the course of the pandemic. In the opinion of the D66 Group, the government could and should have taken binding initiatives. Rule is forethought, so is the proverb. That is why our group is asking the government for long-term covid policy planning, because the pandemic is not permanent after this summer. The vaccination rate is expected to remain at around 70%. Unfortunately, this also has to do with the confusing decision-making on vaccination strategies that have disadvantaged confidence in vaccinations. So 30% of the population remains susceptible to infection. New variants that bypass the accumulated immunity remain possible and probably as long as corona in the world is endemic. Of course enough vaccines must remain available, so we take it for granted in the coming years. But a long-term planning is needed to organise the care in such a way that it can surf the waves of the present and the upcoming pandemics without the threat to capseize, as I experienced in April young people: very exciting and traumatic for some were those days too, I can say from my own experience. So: how does the Minister intend to deal with the hundreds of thousands of overtime and unrecorded leave days in addition to a reservoir of so-called catch-up care? This situation requires a well-thought-out plan. Vision, perseverance and decisiveness are required. That is why we would like to hear from this minister a more solid covid vision and future plan for both the short and the long term. We are considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. Back to the legislation that is under discussion today. An interesting phenomenon is that in this pandemic different domains meet: order and safety within the security regions, public health through the GGDs and the Wpg and curative care co-ordinated through the ROAZ regions. Our perception is that there is no natural cooperation and coordination between these areas. Legislation is also limited in terms of strengthening these areas. We would like to hear a reflection from the Minister. Where does he see bottlenecks? When and how does he intend to solve this? It seems necessary to permanently adapt the Wpg, as of September 1st or later, in order to combat future pandemics. What changes does the Minister intend to make? Mr. Chairman. So much for our first-term contribution. I would like to wish both gentlemen good luck with their maiden speech. We are waiting with interest for the Minister to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u98	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I shall now give the floor to Mr Backer, also on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be responsible for the second part of the D66 contribution. I see a broad delegation from the Cabinet on this important issue. Thank you for this approach. Mr. Chairman. The proposals come on the agenda here at a time when many citizens are thinking: why now? The urgency is decreasing, vaccinations are increasing. Is it still meaningful legislation? When I heard the beautiful supporter song You'll Never Walk Alone again for a long time I wanted to look at the farewell of Wijnaldum I thought: this is actually symbolic of the problem we are discussing. We want to take back the ordinary life. I believe that the PVV Group and we do not differ in this respect. But it is not quite normal, because the stadium also had strict rules of conduct, namely 1.5 meters and a mouth cap obligation, which did not make the singing sound great either. Anyway, we could do it again. The vaccination rate in the UK is also much higher, so there can be more. Mr Van der Voort pointed out that the course of every pandemic is erratic. In today's test of legislation, I try to focus in particular on the Corona Access Cards Act and the quarantine obligation. Both can be useful if the pandemic breaks out again and continues to develop erraticly. Mr. Chairman. The House of Representatives debated the Corona Access Rights Act for about thirteen hours. It has also been substantially amended. In our view, this has also improved the law. A number of motions have also been adopted. I'd like to make a few brief comments about the quarantine obligation. It's a logical successor. We had a debate here with Minister Grapperhaus during one of our Friday debates. I remember a long time ago we talked about the possible mouse hole in case passengers had to come urgently but could not submit a PCR test. Then they arrived in our country without a test and something had to be done. Like Mr Janssen, I remember the Minister saying: then we have a problem with enforcement. Now I saw that a lot of categories are excluded. I also saw that the mayor can grant an exemption. I can agree with many of Mr Janssen's questions on this point, although I may come to another conclusion. Mr. Chairman. Then the corona tickets. We live in a democratic rule of law where it feels counter-intuitive when visiting theatre, stadium or hospitality is linked to conditions. But if we characterize the proposal as a temporary exception to an existing ban that is subject to conditions, it is also more understandable. It has also been tabled, in essence, and I believe that Mr De Boer also said this in order to reopen sectors, based on the situation we are now in. The question that the government, like us, was faced with is: how can one organise society in such a way that you fulfil both the constitutional mandate to continue to promote public health and the duty not to unnecessarily restrict the freedom of citizens? That balance has been weighed and we have been presented with proposals before. It's happening again today. Mr. Chairman. Indeed, as has just been mentioned, we are receiving many reports from society that citizens are concerned about this regulation. We take these concerns seriously, but I am also concerned about the large amount of factual and scientifically unfounded messages and conspiracy theories. It's obviously not done to talk about that, but I'll do it. If experts like Van Dissel and Gommers are threatened, the Belgian expert must go into hiding. I think we should not leave that unnamed. I also wish them strength in the continuation of their task. In the broadcast of Pointer on NPO 2, you saw that part of the e-mails are sent mechanically. You can also see this in the hundreds of e-mails we receive. Of course, the debate on fundamental rights and restrictions on freedom must be clear. There's nothing wrong with that, but you have to feed her on content and facts. Mr. Chairman. The Health Council has looked into it and the Council of State has looked into it. Of course, comments have again been made on proportionality. Moreover, the amendment to the Corona Access Act has somewhat met the concerns, but citizens are not usually surprised and often refuse on principle grounds when countries in the EU make demands or ask Dutch travellers for proof of test. This debate is also taking place throughout Europe. There is now also agreement on a corona passport. Mr. Chairman. In principle, we are not opposed to such a restriction of freedom, provided that it is proportionate and that the greater importance of the fight against pandemic remains evident, and otherwise, of course, not. That also fits in with social liberal ideas, freedom in connectedness, like our version of "You'll never walk alone." Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, already working on legality. We have been in a situation of overall lockdown and we are gradually going back. We have supported this situation, with criticism, with reservations. Mr Van der Voort has just spoken about this, and Mrs Prins, by the way. Yeah, a lot of things could have been different. Anyway, we're where we are now. It is also not fruitful in our view to reopen that old discussion. There have also been court cases about "couldn't this have happened?'. Certain statements have also been made and they have been repaired in the legislation. That's what we did here. Then the question remains, also from the cultural sector, which has just been discussed: why should this still apply to us? If, as Mr van der Voort said, this can be dealt with as precisely as possible by means of a system of restrictions, then that is fair. But then it must have a high level of reliability on the tests and be sufficiently representative. Mr. Chairman. We still have the question of subsidiarity in that discussion. Could it have been different at this stage? Some suggested, "it's easy to do otherwise, because you're just gonna open it." I don't think that's justified. The question must always be: "Is there any way to do it differently?'. We didn't find it in the OMT opinions. In fact, sometimes the OMT recommendations are even more cautious than the final choices that have been made. Yeah, the best thing is, of course, if everyone's vaccinated. Then the residual risk is low, according to all experts. But that is not just a matter of time and enough vaccines. There's a group that doesn't want to be vaccinated for their magical reasons. Now, of course, the key question is: should the vaccinated group wait until everyone is vaccinated? I think that is also a reverse form of solidarity that we would not support. Mr. Chairman. I find the roadmap unclear in the legislative sense. That is also Mr Van der Voort's question. The Roadmap is a management tool, but ultimately, of course, legislation must be tailored to its enforcement and feasibility. That's not a management question. Finally, there is one point that has been missing from the debate, namely the exposure of staff in companies, restaurants, theatres and other institutions. It is always about the citizens who are restricted in their freedom. Then the theatres should be open because some would like to, as Mr Nicolaï said. But there is also such a thing as the protection of the own people who work there, the staff who work there? Because that is then exposed to unvaccinated people or to untested people. It should not be imposed on staff to be vaccinated; there is no legal authority, but I would think that a by-catch of testing and the corona pass is that those who work in theatres, restaurants and other institutions should at least be better protected. We have already had a whole discussion about this in education, where it was a difficult situation for teachers to expose themselves to possible infections. I would find it beneficial in other sectors to introduce this protection through this scheme. A bycatch, which I don't see mentioned anywhere, but which seems important to me. Can I see that this is indeed a non-mentioned objective, but a good by-catch? In conclusion, we look forward to the answer given by the Minister or Ministers to the questions. There are still a number of questions and dilemmas. After that, we can consider how we will eventually vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u100	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I now give the floor to Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u101	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the ministers and officials concerned for the enormous amount of work they have done in recent months. I would also like to thank the staff in the care for the fact that they are walking on their toes and have to walk. And also the GGD, who set a great number of shots. Mr. Chairman. I have received many emails and letters from society, about the testing society, about threatening divisions, about freedom, about non-essential activities. Ultimately, ethical and philosophical questions lie at the root of this. In one of my previous contributions I referred to the philosopher Dooyeweerd who spoke about control and freedom. I remember Minister Grapperhaus getting hit extra because it brought him back himself to his college days. In this debate, I would like to leave the philosophical and ethical questions in the background. However, I would like to give a quote from the Catholic theologian Romano Guardini. In his book Freiheit, Gent, Schicksal he wrote the following about man: "Darum ist der Mensch von Wesen ein Suchender und im Menschen ist suchend auch die Welt." "Therefore man is naturally seeking, and in man is seeking the world." Mr. Chairman. These are very fundamental statements about freedom. In Guardini's vision, religious and philosophical questions play an important role in the search. It could just be that all those emails and letters I received from society have to do with that quest for freedom. The Christian Union Group would like to focus on the question: how do we look to the future? Or, perhaps sharper: how does the cabinet view the future? Our group is thinking in particular of the post-summer holiday period. From this focus, our group also wants to look at the duration of the Twm and at the other two laws. Then the key question is: do these laws contribute to the thriving of society and can individual citizens, especially vulnerable citizens, come to their senses? I shall begin with a statement. Over the last few months, the cabinet has made a sharp blow to the wind. Step-by-step relaxation is taking place. The black scenario didn't occur. The sharpness of the course can be seen from the following. For a long time, the ic occupation was about 65%. At that point, the R-value was around 1. If that R value had increased by 20% due to unforeseen circumstances, we would have been within two weeks, or... Three cycles, ended up in the black screenplay. I am not giving this example in order to judge the policy of the cabinet afterward, everyone is wise, but to ask the question: was this sharpness justified? Mr. Chairman. To get a good answer to that question, an evaluation of the corona crisis is very important. First of all, with regard to the measures, the number of infections, the excess mortality, delayed care and the hospital and ic occupation. But also in view of the overall social and economic impact. Can the Minister promise that such an evaluation will be carried out by an independent committee? When would it be able to report? The cabinet has tried to strike a balance between limiting the pandemic and keeping society open. All reports showed that the occupation of hospitals and ICIs was an important benchmark. Understandably, the black scenario is certainly a horror scenario. Mr Van der Voort has already mentioned it. However, there are countries that have had a much more stringent policy. I am thinking of Denmark, Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and many others. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the image proposed by the American Tomas Pueyo, namely the image of the hammer and the dance. In his vision, you must distinguish two phases. In the first phase, if there is a major outbreak, you need to take drastic measures to reduce the virus, such as a complete lockdown, a curfew, an entry and exit ban and so on. This is what he calls the punch with the hammer. If that blow is successful and the virus is almost gone, then you get the next phase, the phase of the dance. As a society you then move along with the virus by doing extensive source and contact research, by large-scale testing in small outbreaks and by taking quarantine measures for travellers from high-risk areas et cetera. You're dancing along to prevent another wave. There is evidence that policies based on hammer and dance ultimately lead to better results, both from the perspective of health care and from the perspective of the economy. That is why the Christian Union Group is very interested in this strategy. If the course of the coronavirus is similar to that of last year............................................................................................................................................................ That would be the time to consider a different policy. For example, a policy in terms of the hammer and the dance. Is the Minister prepared to consider this strategy? I'm not saying "to propose," but I'm saying consider it. What commitment can the Minister make? Mr President, two strategies are central to the approach to corona. Actually, that's very simple. The first strategy is to prevent an increase in the number of infections in a region. The second strategy is to prevent contamination from another region coming to your own region. I would like to comment on both strategies from the point of view of the hammer and the dance. If we think about it in that direction, it is very interesting to ask the question: what does such a region look like? Could that, for example, be a security region? Or part of it? Then who would have to take the initiative to hit the hammer? The cabinet? The region itself? Or can both do that? How do you achieve democratic control of such decisions? Those are all relevant questions. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then I come to the second strategy. Of course, you have to avoid an outbreak skipping from one region to another. For example, entry and exit bans and quarantine obligations will be targeted. I'd like a response from the Minister. Is he prepared to pursue a more regional policy and possibly introduce regional lockdowns? Can the Minister undertake to do this? I now come to the three laws. First, the extension of the Twm. In the view of the Christian Union Group, it is necessary to extend this law, at least until 1 September. The risk derivatives for a subsequent wave are still too large. I am thinking here of the action of new variants, the declining willingness of the population to comply with the measures, the need for rest in care, etc. But that does not mean that our group will 'automatically' go along with any extension. That is why our group asks the Minister to consider a policy in terms of hammer and dance. And that is why our group is asking for a regional lockdown to be considered if necessary. This is necessary in order to assess the necessity and proportionality of the extension. Here's the thing. The cabinet can undertake that with each extension by instrument or instrument. Is it stated by law why this should be renewed? It is precisely to minimize the restriction of fundamental rights. It is also very important in this case: when can we have the debate after 1 September, given that 1 September falls into the recess? Can the Minister also comment on the future of this law in relation to the Wpg? If I understand what biologists are saying about the current pandemic, then we will still have to do so in the future. Shouldn't we be preparing for a "s' it's not derogatory meant to be a solid legal structure? A structure which, of course, can only enter into force with the consent of Parliament. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Christian Union Group understands the need for the Temporary Law Corona Access Cards. It is important for society to open up as quickly as possible, both socially and economically. She also understands that the cabinet wants to prevent a division in society between citizens who are vaccinated and who have freedoms and citizens who are not vaccinated and who have fewer freedoms. That is why our group understands the desire for this law. The reliability of the PCR test is not under discussion. There's consensus on that. For example, I refer to the RIVM's note "On the reliability of the PCR test for SARS-CoV-2." Clinical sensitivity ranges from 67% to 98% and clinical specificity ranges from 96% to 99.5%. An important question is: what about the rapid tests? Are their sensitivity and specificity just as good, or perhaps even better? If I limit myself to the numbers of the PCR test, that leads to a special situation. When we look at the numbers of sensitivity and specificity, it turns out that at the current levels of infection, the number of true positives is about the same as the number of false positives. Specifically, in a major event, x visitors will not be allowed because they have corona, and rightly so, and will not be allowed another x visitors because the test falsely indicates that they have corona. At lower levels of contamination, the ratio is even worse. The question is therefore: what prevalences would the Minister use this instrument, the PCR test or any other test? And what prevalences are no longer due to the problem of the false positives? Can the test policy be designed so that this percentage becomes as small as possible? What are the field labs teaching us? I'd like a response from the Minister. Our group can be brief on the legislation on the quarantine obligation for travellers from high-risk areas. In view of the above considerations, it considers that the quarantine obligation may contribute to the prevention of further outbreaks. Mr. Chairman. I come to my final weighings. Why are many of the considerations we make in the relevant laws so difficult? In our group's view, this has to do with the 'together' of society. In a society, it can never be taken for granted that the freedom of one can or may lead to the freedom of the other. For example, if someone wants to have the freedom to travel from a high-risk area, it is not obvious that that person has the freedom to infect others and thereby take away their freedom. That's why Guardini is right, because he says, "Im Menschen ist suchend auch die Welt," in man seeks the world, in man also seeks the whole society. Eventually, we're looking for freedom here as a society. That is why I have also started the question of whether these laws contribute to the prosperity of society, of individual citizens and of vulnerable citizens. I have also received very impressive e-mails from vulnerable citizens who are having a very difficult time in this pandemic. That is why this debate is also about the responsibility of the legislator. I would like to wish Mr Keunen and Mr Karakus a very good maiden speech. The Christian Union Group looks forward to the Ministers' answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u102	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I now give the floor to Mr Raven, on behalf of the Independent Senate faction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Vaccination and testing is today's theme. Three months ago, when we had the previous debate on the covid measures and the extension of the Temporary Test Act, there was still a fairly high rate of infection, causing society to stop completely. At that time, I tabled a motion along the same lines as the Corona Test Act now has, namely to be able to start up social activities as soon as possible. That motion was thought differently and nuanced: everyone was against, except me. We are now three months later, and I note that the motion that has not been adopted has been implemented. I thank the government for that, of course. Because what we all want is for society to be open again as soon as possible. I think that is the thrust of the many reactions we have received in recent weeks. One of the comments our group received in the preparation of the debate was: do you not use this debate to put the horse behind the cart, as the rate of infection decreases with great leaps, as hospitals become army and the number of deadly victims as a result of the pandemic falls significantly? It's three months later, so we could have done it a little faster. That seems to be a fair question, also because more than 8 million vaccinations have already been carried out against the deadly disease and American President Joe Biden even announced last week, to greatly relax the covid measures by abolishing, for example, the maled mouth cap requirement for vaccinees. That brings me to the first question to the Ministers: when will the oral cap be abolished for Dutch vaccinees? During the first phase of the pandemic, senior members of the OMT had serious doubts about the usefulness of that measure. It took more than six months for the cabinet to run out. In the end, for political reasons, it was decided to introduce this duty. There is still no conclusive scientific evidence that mouth caps contribute much to a safer environment. The measure is a serious breach of privacy. It seems justified to scale down the duty of the mouth cap in the short term. There is no mention of this in the road map of 13 April. At least that seems to be an omission. What date, I ask the ministers, can we schedule for this? Mr. Chairman. While the cold figures on the current state of the pandemic are more positive than in recent months, there is still a great deal of vigilance to be exercised. The coronavijand is a multi-headed dragon, a virus tsunami with gigantic and unpredictable waves that leave a great trail of human suffering. Last week the exact figures were still very high: more than 30,000 new infections. In the almost last month, because we are only on 25 days, there were as many as 501 fatalities. With respect to the victims, that's a cemetery full. We need to do something about that. That is an unacceptable number for a country with virtually the best health care in the world. The fundamental social right enshrined in Article 22 of the Constitution obliges the government to protect its citizens. The government, according to the Constitution, takes measures to promote public health. You don't hear that too much in the discussions, but it's there. Citizens have a right to this. Public intervention is therefore still necessary if there is a direct threat to citizens. This intervention also justifies a certain violation of other fundamental rights. The more than 1,000 e-mail responses that we have received in the last week are flawed at that point. There are a number of other fundamental rights that are mentioned, but in this case we have Article 22 of the Constitution, which instructs the public authorities to take measures to promote health. Both Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution allow restrictions. This is justified, as is currently proposed. Mr. Chairman. There is, however, a general principle: what is the hardest must weigh the hardest. In other words, the important things come first. The right to protection of human health prevails. In our view, emergency legislation to combat the pandemic, which still causes very large numbers of victims among the Dutch population, is of the utmost importance. This justifies some restriction of citizens' freedom of movement, for example by quarantine measures or by testing to show that there is no risk of contamination for others at events, visits to museums, restaurants and so on. Although the draft law before us has a number of fundamental rights, it does so precisely in order to give more freedom back to citizens. The aim of the law is to make more possible, provided that these tests do not lead to social inequality and are accessible to all. In short, we are in favour of sufficient, in stock and free. Mr. Chairman. It goes without saying that these restrictions should apply for as short a duration as possible and should be as limited as possible. My question to the Minister is how citizens can have the confidence that the government will not delay the restrictions beyond what is strictly necessary, keep citizens' data confidential and not abuse the information for other purposes. What objective criteria does the government offer for this? Nor should it be preferable to infringe the integrity of the body. If it is necessary, then not with a cotton swab that pecks deep into the nose, but with a slightly burdensome antigen test or, rather, with honest breath tests, where the result is known almost immediately. The large scale application of such a breath test at the entrance of an establishment can reopen the entire company, without much inconvenience to the customer, while the reliability is high. The question to the Minister is therefore: will these breath tests be made available by the government after the coronapandemic, or will the government take action in this case and will they be available soon, as of 1 June? I would like to comment on the reliability of the testing. I also made this point in the previous debate: beware of false accuracy. Towards a socially acceptable risk. It is a farce to exercise 100% reliability of a test. A 70% reliability test with a lot of popular support is better than no test or test that deters people. Mr. Chairman. After today, the new adage for the control of the virus will be "vaccinating and ventilating." So testing isn't the first thing to happen with us. Because as the numbers become more positive by vaccination, testing will become more and more unnecessary. The Independent Senate Group therefore assumes that the Coronatest Act will apply for a maximum of three months. We call for an evaluation to be presented to the Court by September 2021 and for emergency legislation to be repealed as soon as possible, also in view of the restriction of certain fundamental rights. Mr. Chairman. Quickly providing the entire population with a protective vaccination was still a noble and simple goal in December 2020. How hard can that be? Right? The path taken by the government in relation to the vaccination programme was strewn with hard-to-pass boulders. What an incredible problem: institutions that stacked error, collaboration that didn't work, suppliers that didn't deliver, vaccination programs that were stopped from one moment to the next, rightly or wrongly, leaders of institutions that undermined the government's formal leadership, "before 1 July" became July 15th, et cetera. It was one organizational mess with a lot of similarity to opportunistic football. And that in the country with almost the best health care in the world; not strong. I'd like an explanatory response from the Minister. Ventilation is the new target that many virologists and scientists are calling attention to in order to combat the virus permanently. How are we gonna do that? Do our children have to cook again in classrooms with open windows in winter or are there good ventilation systems in all rooms? And are they also in all publicly accessible buildings? What about the private public buildings, such as shops, office buildings, etc.? By the way, how do we ventilate in this climate-neutral time? It is another major challenge that must be met before the winter of this year. Has the government already drawn up an implementation plan and is there an appropriate subsidy scheme to provide sufficient ventilation for all buildings? Finally, Mr President. Citizens have the constitutional right to a government that protects them from an attack on their health. At the same time, the Constitution offers the same citizens important rights as the right to privacy and the right to inviolability of the body. It's gonna pinch, and it's gonna require a careful balancing of interests in the government. But it also calls on citizens to do everything in their power to protect each other from contamination. We see that as a civic duty for everyone. We therefore urge everyone to cooperate in the fight against the pandemic and to take the necessary protective health measures in the interests of the entire Dutch population. Testing works preventively and vaccinating.......................................................................................................................... Our appeal to all Dutch people is therefore not to weaken and unite to fight the virus, because only together can we defeat corona. In conclusion, I would like to mention two more quotes to consider. "I won't be inoculated with that shit," says the tough burger. "What do you think they're gonna give you when you're in the hospital with corona on ice?', said the neighbor concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u105	Mr. Chairman. From "too little, too late" to "too late, too much." That is the key summary of the Corona approach of the Rutte cabinet and Minister De Jonge. The envisaged Temporary Law Corona Access Cards is yet another example of this. When the Netherlands had to test massively in the summer of 2020, the test policy was a chaos and Minister De Jonge went on holiday. While the fire was smoldering for the second and third wave, our national fire chief took off thinking the fire was contained. To one the cabinet should have prepared for the test society, and not now, a year later. This test law is now mustard after the meal. What needs to be done now is to speed up vaccination policy to get the virus under control as soon as possible. A lot of time has been wasted with typical Dutch talk about who could have a shot earlier, and how it all had to be planned within the poachy, unworkable polder structure and through the general practitioners. Of course, this should have been dealt with much more widely and decisively. This has wasted a great deal of valuable time, time in which people are not protected and the corona virus has been able to spread unnecessarily. In the summer of 2020, the vaccination policy should have been fully implemented, and the viscous polder structure, which is once unfit to tackle the corona crisis decisively, should have been effectively streamlined. That is something GGD Chief Rouvoet has finally found out, after more than a year, now apparently, given his speeches in the media today. In the summer of 2020, the cabinet lost its battle with the coronavirus, as I said in October last year when dealing with the Temporary Law measures covid-19, that temporary law that the cabinet wants to extend again today. So you see, temporary measures take the longest. This is something that our group has also warned about many times. Our group voted against this temporary law last year because it is not proportionate and does not sufficiently guarantee the role of this Parliament. We shall therefore now vote against the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet and this minister lack the sense of timing, overview and intuition. Unfortunately, it is not given to the cabinet to think ahead and to act proactively. That has made the corona crisis very painfully clear. The pilot of the crisis is in the coronacockpit like a wild push on all kinds of buttons. "What would happen if I pressed the button "corona detector"? Hm, nothing happens at all, so let me press the button "test law." The plane starts bouncing all over the place, the passengers grab the vomit bags, but the minister loves it all and continues on the course. And the coalition, supported by the GroenLinks Group, which is now really jumping through every hoop of the cabinet in order to be allowed to dominate, agrees against better knowledge. Where's the moving insight here? The corona situation changes from day to day. We should not continue with an ill-thought-out and illogical law because the cabinet has started this legislative project. It reminds me of a pilot who wants to go on landing at all costs and against better knowledge while the copilot says, "Would you?" I'm starting to feel like we're watching an episode of Aircrash Investigation. The pilot flies too slowly and too low, pushes the wrong buttons and loses control of the plane more and more. As a viewer, you're waiting for the inevitable crash. Let's hope it ends with a belly landing and that the passengers will be released in time with the shock. Mr. Chairman. These Temporary Law Corona Access Cards also cost a billion euros for the so-called test society. This free tax money is distributed by a special foundation created for this purpose, which can also do so at its own discretion and is not subject to democratic control. This is Sywert on Steroids. There have already been many useful people who think: if the government is going to throw money out the window, then we are going to be ready to pick it up. We have read the reports in the newspapers about all kinds of dubious test companies that are now shooting out of the ground like mushrooms. Let us be clear: we are certainly not opposed to spending a lot of money to combat the corona crisis, but efficiency must be paramount. Our group has therefore followed with great interest the miraculous course of events of around 100 million for the unused, rejected masks of Sywert van Lienden. Extremely handsome how this CDA charlatan with its companions under the guise of charity has managed to raise tens of millions. How much has Sywert's bow actually stuck, I ask the Minister of VWS. But the cause of this failure, of course, lies mainly with those responsible for it. First the present mouth caps were sent to China and then they were bought in the wild and in blind panic but everything. There are now eleven warehouses full of unused mouth caps and tools, worth over EUR 1 billion, which will soon have to be destroyed. Maybe we can burn these expensive mouth caps for energy production instead of using our trees via biomass. Then we still do something sustainable with these tools. Mr. Chairman. Last week, President Arno Visser of the General Court of Auditors alerted about the more than 5 billion issued by the VWS Ministry and who cannot be held accountable to the Ministry of Minister De Jonge. It appears that this problem has been going on for some time now in the VWS ministry, but the corona crisis and the huge sums involved are now bringing these matters to light in a frightening way. We therefore fear that the course of events around the new CDA millionaire Van Lienden is just a tip from this financial iceberg. The General Court also found that the supervision of the Ministry of Finance over the Ministry of VWS is not sufficient. That is why our group wants Minister De Jonge to be put under curate immediately in order to avoid any further waste of money. We can do that on the basis of the Compatibility Act. Article 7.23 of the Compatibility Act provides that the General Court may, at the request of each of the Chambers of the States General, initiate an investigation. That is why we are tabling a motion on this at first reading, which I would now like to read out. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that billions are being spent by the VWS Ministry on all kinds of measures related to the corona crisis;]] [[noting that the General Court recently concluded that last year the VWS Ministry spent EUR 5.1 billion of taxpayers' money on corona material such as mouth caps and testing;]] [[Whereas the Temporary Law provides for substantial amounts of additional tax money to create a test society;]] [[Calls on the Court of Auditors to examine in the short term the effectiveness and legality of the amounts to be spent directly or indirectly related to the Temporary Corona Access Cards Act on the basis of Article 7.23,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35526-BG]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u106	Finally, our group would like to call on the cabinet to increase its willingness to vaccination, to improve information to the population and to confront all kinds of anti-vaxers and conspiracy thinkers, and not just to leave this to Belgian virologist Marc van Ranst. Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answer from the cabinet and wish Mr Karakus and Mr Keunen every success in their maiden speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u107	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to congratulate my colleagues Karakus and Keunen on their maiden speech. I just want to hear what kind of story they're gonna tell. Of course, I wish them every success. Mr. Chairman. A king cannot buy too many horses. That's a concrete prescription from the Bible book Deuteronomy. Horses meant power. Too much power concentrating on the king, in the government we would say today, is not just right, so says this Bible part. Power can derail and act addictive. And it turns out it's hard to give up at some point. That is quite a timeless lesson, especially now that we have arrived at a time when the government decides that it is more essential for me to be able to hire a woman's body than to look at a painting. According to former president of the United States, Ronald Reagan, the scariest words you could hear as a citizen were: I'm from the government, and I'm here to help you. A one-liner on which, of course, there is a need to change, especially in times when public health is under acute threat. Yet behind this sentence lies a deep truth. The government must know its limits. It is not necessarily more social or safer to assign as many responsibilities as possible to the government. The accumulation of power is risky for every institution. After all, behind every institution are people who are not self-made on the good. It is precisely the sinfulness and imperfection of people that should make us fundamentally in favour of democracy and the spread of powers. Based on the Cabinet's route planner, we're on our way to the exit of the pandemic. More and more people have gone through the disease process or are vaccinated. The end is getting closer, that's the estimate. I also refer, of course, to the favourable figures. Fortunately, from the point of view of care, but also from a social and economic point of view. It's also happy from another point of view. Over the past year, the government has taken on immense responsibilities and powers. Necessary for public health, but profound for privacy and personal freedoms. We can't get used to that. From the SGP we see the government as a servant of God; a high calling. But a government can also become a harmful albedil and exceed its powers, with an appeal to a higher purpose. It can take over its power at the expense of its citizens and its freedoms, but also of churches, for example. That is why it is the primary responsibility of Parliament to ensure that it does not become an exceptional rule. As soon as the situation permits, the government must resign. The latter is not automatic, quite the contrary. It is particularly important that the cabinet now, with the port in sight, comes up again with substantial legislation and measures, which limit fundamental rights and impose high costs. For a short time. At least that's the hope. We know very well how elastic the term "temporary" is. And then the cost! Why does the government not put EUR 1 billion in ICI beds, health and prevention? I also refer to the recent manifesto of hospitals, health insurance companies and doctors who call the investment in test events 'a costly impulse purchase'. Don't the current proposals come as the famous mustard after the meal? Also right now, as we discuss the test law, the money for the test society washes away. The commercial test companies concerned shall not be paid per test carried out, but only for available capacity. How can we defend the fact that commercial parties have been paid for services that are not taken away since 1 May? Is it true that those parties themselves wanted to be paid per test carried out? Please explain further about this particularly philanthropic financing construction from VWS. Mr. Chairman. The above makes the SGP critical of the proposals in question. Does the cabinet, even without the new proposals, not have a generous toolbox at its disposal to guide us through the pandemic? Mr. Chairman. The Advisory Section of the Council of State notes, in response to the legislative proposal, that the necessity, proportionality and effectiveness of the quarantine obligation are not sufficiently established in the light of the far-reaching breaches it makes of a number of fundamental rights. As far as the SGP is concerned, this criticism of the bill still stands as a house. This criticism does not get any lighter if we explicitly involve the enforcement of the measures. Does the Minister recognise that in these areas there has not been a substantial response to the negative opinion of the Council of State? It's checked through call teams: good morning, you're talking to the government, and I'd like to make sure you're home. You'd be yearning for a drastic extension of the bell-me-non-register. Mr. Chairman. Checking through call teams, but if you're not available, you won't get a fine. And as far as road traffic is concerned, the police have indicated that they do not have any additional people to enforce the quarantine law. I would also mention, of course, the VNG's heartfelt cry that corona rules no longer apply to citizens and businesses as well as to enforcers. Enforcement is not conclusive anymore, the UNG warns. She added that the introduction of the intended test society would lead to an important division. Are the ministers simply going to ignore this cry? Have we still not learned how essential feasibility and enforcement should be in the legislative process? Mr. Chairman. According to the Cabinet, access tests should help to speed up the re-opening of sectors in society in a responsible way and to ease measures rather. However, a large part of the organisations to which this bill relates, and for whom the cabinet wants to do all this, has expressed a very negative opinion on the legislative proposal before us. I am thinking of the vast majority of catering entrepreneurs who are not prepared to use a test certificate as a condition for access to a catering establishment. The cultural sector even calls the proposals a blow to the cultural sector. Then what are we doing? Moreover, I refer to the devastating comments made by my colleague Mr Van der Voort, who also touched on the fact that large-scale testing of people without indication is an impure method of diagnostics that creates pseudo-safety. Testing healthy people is simply not effective, that's how they calculate. I refer, among other things, to yesterday's sturdy article by Follow the Money. That is why my question: is the cabinet able to look at the proposals - with today's corona figures - at a distance, and to consider explicitly the option of abandoning the proposed money-consuming measures? Mr. Chairman. Only together can we control corona, that's the slogan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u109	I wonder if Mr Van Dijk might be in favour of setting up a threshold below which it would no longer make sense to use that test and above which it would make sense to use that test. Is that a way that's acceptable to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u110	I found it interesting and also quite brave, quite frankly, that you asked the Minister that question, because you suggested that if the cabinet cannot make it very clear whether we are currently at that threshold, you might want to think about your voting behaviour. At least that's how I listened to you. I thought Mr Backer was a little more generous, but of course I do not want to drive a wedge between the spokesmen of D66. I thought it was brave. I have indicated that, and I am going to listen to the Ministers very carefully later that, if this bill had been tabled in November or December, I would have found it very difficult. Then I would have said that it might be really useful and I would like to think seriously about whether it will help. But now I've already dropped the term... I find the mustard after the meal. It's too late in my eyes. I would not dare say 'let's do this again' now, unless the ministers really know how to show that the levels of contamination are still so high, that all the intended tests can certainly show a reliable result and show no pseudo-safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u111	So you could imagine that you do have a measure like this in your so-called toolbox, but then you agree with each other when you do and when you don't use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u112	I understand. Then I refer to the rest of my speech. I think the government's toolbox is more than enough at the moment. If I look where we are now and I look at the Cabinet route planner, I can conclude that we're on our way to the exit and we're gonna make it through this. Then I find this instrument, with all its costs and precisely for such a short term, not proportionate. I have serious questions about effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mr Van der Voort, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u114	In any case, I understand that you do not consider this instrument necessary in addition to the measures and instruments already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u115	No. Once again, you know the SGP, I am really going to listen very carefully to what Minister De Jonge and the other ministers are going to say, but at the moment we are really critically ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u116	You refer to the situation last year, in which we were faced with sharp increases in figures. We're gonna do more or less the same thing last summer. We go on holiday, we come back again and we also go to places where most of the people have not yet been vaccinated, where new variants can be created and we can also take back new variants. In addition, there are also people who will go on holiday without being vaccinated, for example on the basis of a negative test. Of course, these people can also bring back variants. My group believes that it is very realistic that in September/October we will see rising figures among groups that have not yet been vaccinated. That is also one of the reasons why we think it is important...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u117	What is your question, Mrs Kluit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u118	I'll get to that. We think it is important to have this instrument in the trunk, because it is a relatively limited instrument compared to closing entire sectors for everyone. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u119	Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u120	Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u121	Mr Van Dijk! How can I confuse you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u122	That's okay. I think it's a compliment, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u123	It's a compliment, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u124	I understand your point, but we are really looking at it differently. Once again, I base myself on what the cabinet radiates. We're at 8 million stakes by now, I think. We'll be a lot further in one or two months. I think we should have a situation where we're in control. Look, you say, "Maybe there's a new variant coming from abroad." Yes, risks will always exist, but frankly, that is also a danger to me. Those risks will always be there and it will always be tempting for the government to make that toolbox even fuller, because you never know. Such a society is not what I mean by freedom. So, no, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u125	I just want to put it right...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u126	Just think about it for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u127	I hear a number of political groups in this Chamber who are putting the Minister on the grill that we are too little, too late in our policy, but we ourselves, as a parliament, are playing a role in that too. We will keep the cabinet brief at the moments when there is room in the level of contamination. As a parliament, we sometimes prevent the preparation of measures that will enable us to deal with new outbreaks quickly. The instrument of the access tests and the tickets is precisely there to ensure that we can get on with it quickly and that we can prevent major outbreaks. I would once again like to make a plea to Mr Van Dijk: is it not a good instrument in that light, with the guarantees of, for example, the minimum number of infections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u128	I understand your question. Your premise is: dear people, we are not yet on our way to the exit and the chance is real that we will take another dive. Once again, precisely given the information we get from the cabinet and the development of the figures, and we know how the vaccination is going; more and more people have gone through the process so I am more optimistic than you. Then there is your first point. Yeah, we should be ready the moment it matters. That is exactly what I am blaming for this bill. If this had been here six months ago, I would have said that we could open a number of sectors earlier than we had hoped. Now we're already very close to the exit. Now I say, guys, let's bet that all sectors open up to all residents and that we don't make selections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u129	Last question: should the Minister state in his reply that we are not at all on our way to the exit, that we may see him, but that we may also encounter some detours, is the SGP prepared to revise its position?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u130	I have said several times: I am going to listen very carefully to Minister De Jonge and to other ministers. That's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u131	I can imagine a lot of arguments put forward by my colleague in relation to the critical questions he has about the test law. But I do have a question. What do you ultimately want as a SGP? You want a lot of freedom and as a party you have difficulty to indicate that it is good to have you vaccinated. Imagine if the levels of contamination were to increase again and we would then give the opportunity to entrepreneurs and many other hard-working people, including the cultural sector, to do something in certain cases, why do you ultimately ask those critical questions? What alternative do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u132	I have tried throughout my speech to point out that I no longer think it is proportionate and insufficiently effective at the moment. Once again, if this had been there six months ago, we could have outlined the perspective of: a lot is still closed, but through this route we can bring forward a number of sectors. But now we are so close to the moment that we can bring it forward for everyone. Then I think it is no longer proportionate and incredibly expensive to put together a test society for the relatively short time before everyone has been vaccinated or the whole process has gone through. The proportionality and effectiveness have simply not been established for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u133	I can really imagine, and that is not the point. But we are now heading for the summer; we do not know what will happen in the autumn. So if I interpret your words in a positive way, you can imagine that, with increasing contamination rates, we still need these kinds of laws, as an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u134	Yeah, that's right. Let's hope it doesn't happen. But if we go back to last year's situation, we'll meet again here and then we'll look at proportionality, effectiveness, costs and so on. Mr. Chairman. I was at my last paragraph. Only together can we control corona, says the slogan. If so, let us act accordingly. Together we are currently working on immunity, either through vaccination or through the disease process, and together we stick to the restrictions for everyone, including agreed hygiene measures: keeping away, mouth cap on, washing hands. Only together can we control Corona. Doesn't this mean, together at home, together out? Therefore, an urgent appeal to the cabinet: stop all the money and all the commitment to the proposals now presented in the process of opening up society more quickly to all residents and to all sectors. Mr. Chairman. I see I have a minute left to make a legal point that I would like to make. Some 300 million have been spent on pilots with access tests for football, the Song Festival and that kind of show. This was done through Article 227 (2) of the Compatibility Act. To this end, "in the interests of the Empire" has been called upon. Having listened to the other colleagues, I have checked the explanatory statement. I really wonder if this is a legally sustainable route. Doesn't the cabinet have enormous powers along these lines? Does this not mean a reduction in Parliament's budgetary powers? I'd like a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u135	I understand that you have come to the end of your speech. Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Together we get corona underneath. I think that's a fair call from Mr. Van Dijk. I do not want to stigmatize, but I know that some of your constituents are opposed to vaccination for reasons of principle. Are you also prepared to call for this, because it is also part of the "together"? Let's get you vaccinated, 'cause that's how we're gonna get corona underneath together. How do you feel about calls like that, including your constituents?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u137	Calling in to get you inoculated... What we believe in in particular, also because it is most effective: make sure that people are given honest and reliable information and that they do not have to slavish themselves to all kinds of bizarre websites and so on. Eventually, whether or not to inoculate is a personal question. You are talking about my followers and this is a question that answers the followers by looking up, up, to the Lord God: what is the way that the Bible guides us? We have different views on this, and we respect that. But once again, that vaccination helps to contain this pandemic, I will in no way contradict it. Those are the facts, and we are also trying to share this honest information wherever possible, including with our supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-eerstekamer-3.u138	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 1.30 p.m.
