ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on standard of care SAR helicopters and SAR improvement programme, Room 30490, No. 36. We have two speakers from the Chamber. A warm word of welcome to the Minister for Infrastructure et cetera. Thank you for joining us. We hope we'll be brief, so you'll be out in a minute. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Hagen of the D66 Group, who has two minutes' speaking time, but can undoubtedly do so in a shorter time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. That was a slightly steering remark, but I'm sure it'll be fine. A well-functioning SAR operation can mean the difference between life and death. D66 is therefore very pleased that, following signals that the operation was not in order, the Minister has taken this matter up with speed. However, we still have one point of attention. Well-equipped and well-prepared crew members are of great importance for safe operation, there is no doubt about that, but we have received signals that in the night the short haul time combined with fatigue can lead to feelings of pressure and therefore insecurity. This was also reflected in the ADSE report. Now we understand that the safety-first principle can always be used to meet those concerns. And, of course, this short haul is also very important. But we want permanent attention from the Ministry to ensure that the safety of crew members or the safety of the operation in practice, and that the Ministry uses an open culture and provides a point of contact for this purpose. Can the Minister promise that the progress report on the SAR improvement programme will take into account how these concerns are addressed? And then I have a motion, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of great importance for the (fly) safety of the SAR operation that there are good agreements on the working and rest periods of the SAR crew;]] [[Whereas the ADSE report recommended the use of a verifiable working and rest period scheme;]] [[noting that the Working Time Decision is currently not being complied with in the work of the SAR services and considering the possibility of introducing a specific working and rest period regime for the SAR operation;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with sector parties and taking into account the current state of scientific understanding, to develop a specific regime for working and rest periods in the SAR operation under the Working Times Decision and to make an effort to bring them into force from the start of the new SAR contract,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hagen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30490-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-9.u3	I have to laugh because I have to stuff everything in those two minutes, so sometimes you can barely breathe. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-9.u4	I call Mr Rudmer Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr President, thank you. I don't have a motion. Let me start with that. I've been an aviation spokesman for the VVD for almost 24 hours now. As far as Search and Rescue is concerned, I do not want to be deprived of this opportunity to say anything about it. The simple reason is that at my daughter's school, Bente, there's a schoolyard father who's a pilot for Search and Rescue. He's been talking to me about what's going on in Search and Rescue over the past few years. I am very pleased with the answer given by the Minister for Written Questions. Actually, my question is about a broader issue. Before the elections together with the SP, we looked at how we could strengthen an actor on another plane, who is also watching over the safety of our seas and our waters, namely the Rescue Brigade, in order to ensure that safety on the water, the sea and the lakes can remain guaranteed. We are talking about Search and Rescue, where there are some challenges. We also have the Coast Guard, wherever there are complications. I was thinking of those different actors who play both Search and Rescue, as well as Coast Guard and Rescue. To what extent do they operate together? Is there a common view of whether they are acting together? How is that tuned? Is there a policy for that? 'Cause I didn't find it. If there is no such policy, then I am curious to see how we are now looking at the coherence of these different actors and achieving greater water safety in the Netherlands, because every drowning is too much. The more we can prevent it, the better it is. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-9.u6	Fine, thank you. Is the Minister already able to comment on the motion? The minister's asking for one minute. Then I'll suspend for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-9.u7	The Minister has the floor. It can be short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks anyway to the two members for the interest in the Search-and-Rescue operation. It is a very important subject; it is sometimes forgotten. I am therefore pleased with the attention of the Chamber for this. I shall first answer the questions put and finally give an appreciation to the motion. Mrs Hagen is actually calling for attention to be paid to the concerns of the kites. As she herself pointed out, there are some concerns: can it be safe at all times for fatigue and so on, and do we want to stay in conversation with them? Her question was if I could take that with me. How does it work? In the report on SAR, in the improvement programme. Well, let me just promise you that. I'm pleased with the Chamber's interest in this. This is important, because on the one hand people are rescued from the water, but at the same time the pilots and their crew who have to do so must be able to do so safely. Both sides of this security must therefore be in order. I'll be happy to inform you about that. Mr Heerema broadens the subject by involving the whole game with the Coast Guard and so on. How does this cooperation work out? That's his question. The requests for help are coming in to the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard therefore determines whether bet is necessary and what bet is needed. In a single case, this can be for example the use of a rescue boat of the KNRM. I say "in a single case," but in most cases it is. If it is to be faster, the SAR helicopter can indeed be used, or an emergency response towing brush if it is really about the more coarse artillery. In practice, they work very well together. You cannot say that it is one organisation, but they actually operate as one organisation, both in a preparatory and operational sense. I understand your attention to this. I shall therefore see if we can take that aspect into account in this report as well. At the moment, I do not have any signals that cooperation is not good, but I will ask you for more information. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion from D66 to part No. 37. I think it is very important that there are good working hours and rest periods. This is of the utmost importance for safety during the SAR operation. I am currently working on an adaptation of the Working Time Decision on transport to include such a regulation. I will be happy to take your concerns into account. I can therefore give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-9.u9	Fine, thank you. So much for this debate. Thank you to the Minister for her presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-9.u10	We'll vote on the motion on Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 6:20 p.m., 6:20 p.m., for the evening program. Then we'll talk about undermining crime and so on. Thanks to the Minister. Get home.
