ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35695, Amendment of the Public Health Act to clarify the temporary basis for establishing rules on access to and use of passenger transport facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing an urgent legislative proposal today. You have already mentioned how special it is that we do this on a Friday. This proposal provides an explicit legal basis for setting the condition of a negative PCR residue for travel from risk areas to the Netherlands. I will begin by announcing that my group supports this law, because we believe that such a far-reaching measure indeed needs an explicit legal basis. Given the global level of infection and the new variants of the virus, we believe that the measure is also necessary. GroenLinks would prefer to place further restrictions on international travel and especially on air traffic, but the debate on this is being held in the Lower House and that has also been held there. During the discussion on this bill, a number of motions were adopted in the House of Representatives, including a motion on the further restriction of travel from South Africa. My first question to the government is how this will be implemented. We also have a number of other questions and comments. The first is about the title of this bill. It was chosen to include in the title "clearing the basis" instead of simply "base." It seems that the cabinet with this title still wants to be right with the judge, who said there is no basis. What is the consequence of the choice of this title if the appeal court ruled that the basis was not unclear but simply missing? The law allows obligations to be imposed on the carrier and on the traveller. That's what two separate articles are about. The ministerial arrangement currently in place is aimed only at the carrier. Is there going to be an arrangement aimed at the traveller? And if so, what, how and when? And if not, why not and why have we created a legal basis for this? I'm doing it pretty staccato. That's a little in the context of emergency treatment. If carriers do not comply with the scheme, they can be fined, but the passengers are already in the Netherlands without a negative test. Is that gonna work? What is the perspective of action? The legal text speaks of a test within 72 hours before arrival in the Netherlands. A motion has been adopted in the Lower House, stating that this should be reduced to 36 hours if possible. My question is whether this is feasible in all countries. This is the time when the test is to be carried out and not the time when the test result becomes known. I think the time span between testing and getting the results can vary a lot in many countries. Perhaps some clarification can also be given. Then I come to the most important point for us: the position of Dutch and Dutch residents, also in relation to international treaty obligations. Following the opinion of the Council of State, an exemption was introduced for people who could not submit a negative test. This is because otherwise there could be conflict with international conventions which state that a State may not refuse its nationals entry into its territory. This concerns in particular the Fourth Protocol of the ECHR. From the inclusion of the exception, I would point out that the Cabinet shares the view of the Council of State that this exception is necessary in order not to conflict with this Fourth Protocol. Is that right? And does the exception apply to all travellers, or only to nationals? In our view, the latter would make sense if it were created to comply with the protocol. And who's qualifying as subjects? Are these Dutch, Dutch residents or both? 'Cause that's not the same thing. There is little on paper about the practical application of the exception. What exactly does "can't" mean? Where does the transporter have to check this against? How can a carrier test this? How is it checked whether and how the carrier tests this? Is all this still going to land in the ministerial arrangement, or is it waiting to see how it is implemented? You will understand that we are in favour of further clarification. People who are tested positively cannot travel to the Netherlands and must therefore remain abroad. Does the government see a task of supporting those people, especially if they are Dutch or residents of the Netherlands, in the event of problems? Is this a distinction between necessary or unnecessary travel? How is the government going to implement the motion on consular assistance adopted in the Lower House? Does that also see on this, or does it only see on getting a test or being able to travel without a test? So does it also apply to people who have been tested positive and are not allowed to travel? And then my final question: how are other European countries doing? Do they use the condition of a negative test for entry? And if so, do they also apply it to nationals or only to non-nationals? In any case, I would like an explicit communication on this for the neighbouring countries Germany and the Benelux countries. That's what brought me to the end. I realise that it is a number of critical questions, but I am asking them because we think it is important that an arrangement that is being made should also be maintained and robust. I am, as you may know, a lawyer. I've been assisting a lot of victims in vice cases. They often have to endure very nasty interrogations with the police. I always say to people, that's to make things stronger. That is not to criticise, but precisely because the answers are then entrusted to the paper and can help the case. I hope that will also be the case with your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. "Think it crazy": with that spell of Loesje I started my contribution to the debate on the Temporary Law measures covid-19 last October. Again, it appears that in October the cabinet did not consider that far-reaching measures might be needed for air and ship travel. I quote from the explanatory statement: 'The fact that the requirements for access to passenger transport by air or ship have not been explicitly mentioned in the legal history can be explained by the fact that no measures were envisaged in respect of these modes of transport at the time.' Unfortunately, this is another example of reactive action by a surprised cabinet. That's a pattern. Yet the subject is not new. The surprise about it surprises me again. In the treatment of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 I already referred to the Evaluation Approach New Influenza A (H1N1) of Berenschot and Crisislab of 9 March 2011 and all the topics that were discussed in it. In that evaluation by Ira Helsloot and Margreeth van Dorssen the issue of the spread of the virus to the Netherlands was also raised, but the cabinet was surprised by this subject again. Lessons from the past are apparently not learned. The scenarios used by the cabinet seem, and always do, to be the most desirable scenarios, which do not take into account the category: try to think of it as crazy. For example, look at the scenario that is now playing around the vaccinations. But why isn't this still happening, is my question to the cabinet. Is it not time to start tackling this crisis immediately, with well-thought-out scenarios that may not be immediately obvious? The route followed by the Cabinet with this amendment to the Public Health Act increases my already existing concerns about the sustainability and feasibility of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 as a basis for intervention in fundamental rights. Is this the beginning of more legislative changes, because there is also doubt in the cabinet about the legal sustainability of the Temporary Law measures covid-19? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Why didn't the cabinet immediately opt for a ministerial arrangement based on that law? After all, this would not have led to delays, and that is precisely what the law is meant for. In any case, there would have been one application for interim measures, and we would have already clarified the sustainability of that ministerial arrangement as a basis. Why choose not to? What is the opinion of the cabinet, looking back on that choice? Mr. Chairman. This far-reaching change of law is due to Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 2 of the Fourth Protocol to the ECHR. The Cabinet states in the explanatory statement that restrictions on these rights are in principle permitted if regulated by law or by law and the restrictions are necessary, proportionate and effective in order to achieve the objective of health protection. Soit. But then, in the explanatory statement in a single sentence, without further clarification, a conclusion is drawn: there are no other less infringing means available to achieve the same objective. Period. Shorter down the bend than it actually can. Bearing in mind the debate that the Minister had yesterday in the Lower House, I would like to say to him that that is a very short and bad episode of Columbo, where you see the murder, but then goes straight to the credits. I don't think that's the idea. What other possibilities have been explored? For example, I am looking at Germany. There a test prior to the journey is not required, but there is a series of other obligations. Let me quote the travel advice from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "Before arrival in Germany you must register and on arrival you must enter 10 days in home quarantine. Only if you can show a negative corona test can you terminate the quarantine. You must have that test taken in Germany. This can't happen until the fifth day of quarantine." Is this alternative, where you can go home as a national, but get other obligations, investigated? Why wasn't this chosen? Because that would at least guarantee a national's access to his country. In this way, it is indeed a less intrusive means of achieving the same objective. And how is any evidence of vaccination gonna fit into the bill soon? If you were vaccinated later, would you be exempt from the mandatory test if you were no longer contagious or contagious? If not, is the mandatory test still legally sustainable, given the violation of fundamental rights? Health is already protected by vaccination. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of exemptions, I have the following questions. The explanatory memorandum gives two reasons for excluding the obligation. "For example, there is a shortage of test capacity in the country from which one travels or.......................................................................................................................................................................... I take it these two are not intended to be exhaustive, given the word "for example." I'd like to confirm that. But the two grounds mentioned are very different. The explanatory statement states that it is expected that there will be a limited number of special and poignant cases. But if there is a shortage of test capacity in a particular country, is that situation immediately distressing and can we travel without a negative test result? Or should I read an additional criterion in the "shrinking" qualification, which therefore applies in addition to the absence of the tests? Who really decides whether or not anyone can be excluded from these criteria and still be allowed to travel? Is that the consulate? Is that the embassy? Is that the transporter? How's this gonna go in practice? We haven't had a written round, so I really have to ask the Minister these questions to get a sense of it. Mr. Chairman. In addition, there are exceptions for example for border traffic, border workers and children under the age of 13. Let me give you an example from the practice. The Minister said yesterday in the House of Representatives all the time: I do not go into cases. Let's just call it a different one: we're just calling it a bump test for this bill. Are foreign border workers working at slaughterhouses in the western part of Germany and the eastern part of the Netherlands exempt from proven high risk factors if they simply drive back and forth with a company van or their own van? Are they exempt from these tests? Mr. Chairman. Primary schools in the Netherlands are closed due to the English variant of the virus and the risk of infection of children. There's a test recommendation. But travelling children under 13 must not be tested. How is this compatible? I find that hard to explain. Mr. Chairman. A very specific question. This bill excludes travellers who cannot submit a negative test. This was also explicitly the subject of yesterday's debate in the House of Representatives. My specific question, just to make that clear and without having a judgment on it, is: if a traveler calls for faith in order not to take a test, does it fall within the scope of "don't want to" or "can't"? On privacy, the explanatory statement says the following. "When reading the test result, no personal data shall be recorded in a file or otherwise processed within the meaning of Article 4 of the General Data Protection Regulation. In case of a positive or missing test result, only access to and use of the passenger transport facility shall be refused." Do I understand correctly that this means that this does not mean a copy or registration on paper or digital and that showing a negative result is only enough? That question then automatically leads me to monitor, enforce and sanction. How can a carrier prove that someone has shown a negative test if this is not registered when boarding? How can a carrier verify the authenticity of a test result? The minister said yesterday in the House of Representatives that carriers are responsible, but I give it to you to do, especially on a train. All those people on the platform want to go in and wave a copy they printed out or show something on the phone. The carrier is liable, but how should they be able to control that in practice? What am I supposed to imagine at the time of the sanctioning, when it will mostly be about foreign persons carrying out the checks, are the infected travelling from abroad to the Netherlands and carriers who are mostly foreign entities? Are we going to tackle the French railways? Are we going to take on the German railways? How are we gonna do that? Mr. Chairman. Then how does the minister see administrative coercion before him, or detention, or a fine? Those are the sanctions. Or will the sanctioning in practice only turn out to be aimed at the travelers? In practice, there are already major problems in implementation, for example in bus and rail transport. We read that in the Volkskrant. Conductors say: we call it out, but that's all we can do, because we're not police; then the police have to do it. How about this? I am particularly concerned about bus and rail transport. I still understand aircraft and ferries, but bus and train transport seems very weak to me. How are we gonna check that out? Do we have any controls at the exit or just at the entrance? Mr. Chairman. All this makes me seriously question the feasibility of supervision, enforcement and sanctioning. Executableness is very important to me in weighing my opinion on this bill. Can we live up to what we're seeing each other? Mr. Chairman. Limitation of fundamental rights, as proposed in this amendment, should, if necessary, be as limited as possible in scope and duration and should be subject to control by the States General. I assume the cabinet agrees with me on this. It is therefore right that this is now being discussed in both chambers and that the agreement of both chambers is required. It becomes clear again today that the First Chamber feels responsible for dealing with this crisis and acts accordingly. That is why I have an urgent appeal to the cabinet. On October 27th, a motion with my name c.s. adopted in this First Chamber in order to give a decisive vote to the States-General in extending the Temporary Law measures covid-19, precisely because this law is about restricting fundamental rights. A substantive cabinet response on how this motion is to be implemented has been delayed for more than ten weeks, while the extension will be on the agenda as of 1 March. In addition, as of 12 February, the House of Representatives will proceed with election recess. That is in stark contrast to the urgency and haste that we are now making to tackle this crisis together, because Corona is the only one that can be overcome together. But that is a reciprocity. I find it simply shameful how the cabinet has been dealing with the ruling of a majority of this Chamber for ten weeks now. I assume that this motion will now be vigorously implemented by the Cabinet, so that, for the extension of the Temporary Law, measures covid-19 and the fundamental rights restrictions based on it as of 1 March, it is clear that the longer restriction of fundamental rights is subject to decisive control by the States General. I therefore expect no less than a commitment from the cabinet on that today. I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mr Backer has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group would like to endorse the opening words you just said at the start of the new year: words matter. Mr. Chairman. This is an emergency treatment. The fraction of D66 is willing to cooperate in this. I do not normally speak about health, but fortunately I have the vaccinated colleague Van der Voort here to do some more whispering. We are faced with a pandemic, we need to take measures quickly and so we are meeting on Friday on a very rare occasion. Mr. Chairman. The pandemic demands incredibly much extra efforts and sacrifices from people in institutions in healthcare, logistics and supply, not to mention teachers, students, parents and entrepreneurs. I would also particularly like to thank the support services of the Chamber for making this sitting possible. Mr. Chairman. It is only a small contribution that we can make to the fight against pandemics. However, legislative control, legislative work and democratic control continue. They also go on as a matter of urgency. Mr. Chairman. The good news in the new year is that vaccination has started. There can now also be tested in many places. You can do that faster. The broad fight by the Cabinet, although represented only by the Minister for Justice and Security, is clearly a broad effort. Could it have been faster? Could it have been better? As far as we are concerned, that is not the subject of this debate. We will know that afterwards, because this is not a real evaluation of the broad effort. Of course, the temptation is there. I also followed the debate across the street. There the policy was actually described with a nice metaphor. It was a hockey metaphor: the cabinet always skating after the puck. But I do want to give a relativisation to that myself, because we do not know where that puck appears. There are several pucks, which now come to the Netherlands from different countries in different mutations. In short, it's a bit of a simplification of the complexity we're struggling with. Mr. Chairman. The simplest truth is of course: the fewer travel movements, the better. The less traveling to other countries, but in any case also traveling in the Netherlands, the better to combat the pandemic. After all, the virus is erratic. It is going in all directions and the traveller can thus contribute to this by not travelling, which I believe we have all been practicing in recent times. Mr. Chairman. What does the Cabinet want from us? I'm just gonna walk through the steps. Above any legislation is the advice not to travel, but above the whole law, as it stands before us, is the requirement of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. The consignee of the standard is a passenger and in this proposal also the airline. I have some disagreement with my colleague, Mr De Boer, on the basis of this legislation. However, the specific measure we are discussing today was not included, although the widely supported motion by Mr Jetten/Dijkhoff in October or December had already asked for the submission of a negative test result to be conditional. That motion has been widely supported in the House of Representatives. It was not implemented and this led to a short-term action brought by three plaintiffs who wanted to travel back from Zanzibar. Now Tanzania is a high-risk area and the judge in the interim ruling that it is not enough to make such a requirement, I quote "without an actual legal basis', because it is, of course, an intervention in the physical integrity required. It was rightly argued by the plaintiffs that this cannot be done lightly. The court considered that, in order to combat the pandemic, such a requirement could in itself be imposed, but could not be applied to the airport operator by the chairman of the security region. Let me look at Mr Nicolaï, because we had a discussion at the time about the security regions and the measures that could be taken on the basis of those provisions. But I could have told the Minister that the airport operator was not competent at all. Anyway, whatever that may be, live the rule of law, there's a verdict. Although the government has appealed, I think it is wise to discuss this with us today and to present that basis as a co-legislator. Mr. Chairman. The advantage for future passengers, compared to those affected here in their interest and the start of a short-term action, is that the awareness is now greater. My question to the Minister is: can he promote it and can he also keep an eye on the fact that the traveller is not easily informed about it on departure or on boarding tickets? Just a simple check that I did at the KLM: there can be vaccinated anywhere for many things. You can also check on board. There's also the health statement. But there is no mention of this aspect yet, whereas I think South Africa, if I am well informed, is normally a busy route for the KLM. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the hardness. How does it work if a high risk country is unable to create a test facility in time? It's taken us quite a long time, too. What is the situation for a returning Dutchman? Mr. Chairman. The House of Representatives discussed in detail whether the 72 hours could not be shortened. I'm gonna give that a rest now. A motion has also been tabled. A motion has also been tabled on test streets at Schiphol Airport, which might provide a solution for people from the countries I have just outlined. Mr. Chairman. In the end, of course, this rule is based on the application of proportionality and subsidiarity. I think it is important that this should apply to us at least in order to fill in the cases for which it should apply: repatriation, medical necessity, serious humanitarian grounds or otherwise poignant cases. It will be casuistic, but I think that the Acts of this legislation should include the scope we are talking about. I would like to ask whether the Minister can confirm that this interpretation of proportionality and its interpretation is also his. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to ask: is there a little more convergence in the European Union in the area of control measures? And has the Netherlands been able to learn anything from the approach of other countries? Mr Janssen has just mentioned a matter of Germany. I shall leave aside the Brexitland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Mr. Chairman. As you can see from my words: the D66 Group is in principle in favour of the proposal as we have understood it, but we will make the final weighing up on the basis of the response on behalf of the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nicolaï, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. Our group also endorses what you have said today, namely how important it is to put the power of the word first and not the power of stupid violence. Let me put it this way: personally, as a lawyer, I am always for the power of the word. As a lawyer, the Minister is in the same position. Mrs. De Boer mentioned it as well. The most important point for me today is that we need to check whether it is waterproof, precisely because we are standing here because of the fact that Virus Truth has caused a gap in legislation in the courts. That's why I came up with this: as a lawyer, let me move into the lawyers of Virus Truth... that's not easy... and let's see what I could shoot at. And then I get a feeling of anxiety, unless I'm totally wrong, but that's why it's a good thing I can ask the Minister my questions here. A number of previous speakers mentioned the obligations imposed by the draft law on the carrier. Now it is true that when my daughter gets on the train in Paris at Gare du Nord, there is a French conductor who may or may not allow her. Does the Frenchman fall under the Dutch penal code? If I, or a family member of mine, board a KLM aircraft in Barcelona and an employee of that KLM does not comply with the rules that are currently being laid down, it is not KLM but Air France-KLM, and Air France-KLM is not based in the Netherlands as a company but in France, on Charles de Gaulle. The question is therefore: can the Dutch legislator lay down rules that can be enforced in criminal law in respect of companies other than Dutch nationals and in the Netherlands? In the Code of Criminal Law we see that the starting point is that this cannot be done, I do not have to tell this Minister. There are only a few exceptions to this rule, which can be found in Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the Code of Criminal Law concerning criminal provisions applicable to everyone, including non-Dutch nationals and non-Dutch companies. The provision we are talking about, Article 58p, third paragraph, is not included. How dangerous would it be for the lawyers of Virus Truth to find out? I see that they have already pointed out that Article 58p, third paragraph (a) is unbinding. Then the whole building falls apart from the question of whether the next part of Article 58p, third paragraph, is going to fall away. My question to the Minister is therefore whether there has been a reflection on that basic question, which really has to be addressed here, namely: can we in the Netherlands, by the Dutch law, make the demands that are actually contained in that provision and that I hear everyone talking about in terms of application? I was right to hear Mr Janssen ask the question: are we going to tackle the French railways? The question I am asking is not whether we are going to tackle the French railways, but: can we tackle the French railways, legally? If we can't, we have a problem. A second problem that I saw emerging is the limitation of the right to return, which is guaranteed in various treaties. As a result, the fifth paragraph has now been added to that provision. In fact, I was very pleased with the opinion of the Council of State, because when I saw the first draft, I was getting the hair out of my head. What the Council of State wrote in its opinion was somewhat expressed in the explanatory memorandum to the draft as finally submitted to the Chamber. The Council of State states that Article 3 of the Fourth Protocol to the ECHR does not confer an absolute right. I think that's right. But then you come to the question of which restrictions are possible. Well, then, here's what's interesting. The Council of State refers to two opinions. One concerns Article 3, the other concerns Article 12 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. I took those two advices once. I assume that the lawyers of the absent Minister De Jonge have also looked into this. You'll see Article 12. First of all, we can see in the comments made by the Council of State on Article 3 of the Fourth Protocol to the ECHR, which is referred to there, that we have actually included what is laid down in Article 12 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. If you look over there, you can see that Article 12 is made up of four members. The first paragraph says: "Everyone who is legally resident in the territory of a State has the right, within that territory, to move freely and to choose their place of residence freely." The second paragraph: "Everyone has the right to leave any country, including their own." And then it comes: "The above-mentioned rights cannot be subject to any restrictions other than those provided for by law necessary to protect national security, public order, public health (...)," etc. That is the standard clause that we also see in the ECHR. Then we come to the conclusion that the fourth paragraph of Article 12 states: 'No one must be deprived of the right to return to his own country at random'. The third paragraph therefore does not apply to this. Thus, while the third paragraph states that those public health restrictions may be imposed on the first and second paragraphs, that is not the fourth paragraph. When you look at the comments, including the comments made by the Council of State, you see that it is actually said that this is not without meaning, that in fact the fourth paragraph, the right to return, is an almost absolute right and that it cannot be limited in a way that we are used to when it comes to fundamental rights. The comment made by the Council of State states: "there are few, if any, circumcencies in which deprivation of the right to enter one's own country could be reasonable." So it's very strict. Only in exceptional cases can that be done. The comments also say that you should actually think of cases that are in principle brought under Article 4 of the International Convention, where it is about a general state of emergency. I myself think that, for example, the closure of the connections with England for a very short time, when that second variant occurred in one go, is covered. What we are doing now is making an arrangement that is going to apply for a longer period of time, which means that for people who have no test results or who have not wanted or can be tested there is in principle no right to return. Then I'm gonna have to ring a bell. Isn't there another one of Virus Truth who convinces the judge, with these comments in hand, that it is very doubtful whether that right to return here has not been severely restricted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u10	I wouldn't really like to anticipate what a lawyer in the country might think of argument, which, by the way, has been helped a long way along by your exegesis. At the end of your exegesis of the treaties, you said something important, namely that it is not prohibited but subject to conditions. There's no absolute travel ban. Requirements are imposed on the return passenger and they are then in the context of public health. It is, of course, a question of whether these requirements are proportionate. No general ban has been imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u11	Let's be. In fact, the Council of State said in its comments: don't fool me. The story is that it is not at all a question of making demands as a Dutch government to Dutch people who return, but of making demands on the carriers as a Dutch government. That's what you're saying. Well, first of all, I do not think that is possible under Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the Criminal Code. But if it is possible, the Council of State says: "This is without prejudice to the fact that the conditions to be laid down may not be so far-reaching that the right to travel can in fact no longer be exercised under any circumstances." So the Council of State is sticking through that and saying, "Bye, if you're going to tackle those carriers and those carriers are actually being forced to refuse Dutch people who want to return, then you're just settling that Dutch people can't return, no matter how you turn it or turn it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u12	That is the Nicolaï reading of the opinion of the Council of State, because that is not how I read it. That's one. Two: I do not think it is entirely right that the standard should be addressed only to the carrier. He also addresses the resident, the Dutch person who is then abroad at that time. It is on him or her that the effort is required to have a test taken. Of course, he can choose not to. Then the consequence is that he may not be able to come back. But I think that the question I just asked the Minister is very relevant in this respect. Namely: what is the case if there is no test option available? Then we'll get closer to the case you're talking about. I have just asked the Minister this question, and I would really like to hear your views on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u13	Following on from my speech, I wanted to address Mr Backer's point exactly. When it comes to the question of whether the provision is going to be maintained, everything is in keeping with the provisions of paragraph 5. Several questions have already been asked about this, which are actually a bit of a factual nature. I'd like to judge it a little bit more. Actually, I'd like to point out the following to the Minister. In the explanatory statement, he refers to "a calamity forcing the return of tracks." He doesn't actually say that it can't actually be done, but he says that it can't be demanded, in the reasonableness of the person concerned, that he gets tested first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u14	I understand that this comes in the course of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u16	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u17	Yes. In order to prevent us from going back to court again with that right of return guaranteed in treaties, and in order to remove the sting, I should like to ask the Minister the following. Is it not wise for the Minister to state that paragraph 5, which is laid down there, should be read as follows? It is sufficient to consider this presence when there are urgent interests of a personal nature which lead to the reasonable absence of the person concerned in order to be tested. In that case, the specific balance of interests which the Council of State is also talking about in the context of proportionality will be discussed. And I also have a second question. On both points, I am considering a motion if the Minister does not agree to it. My second question concerns the review of that right of return, which is a treaty guarantee. Can you leave the test to the transporter if anyone can get an exemption? Or should you say: that is a review to be carried out by the Dutch authorities? I would like an answer from the Minister. My answer is: the latter. There's no way the transporter's gonna check that out. But that means that when a person enters the aircraft, train or whatever in a situation where that scheme applies, he must rely on that paragraph 5. When entering the Netherlands, a review should be carried out. It shall then be examined whether the person concerned has correctly invoked that paragraph 5. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he agrees with me. If both points, namely the state check on entry, in that case, and the statement that it must be a matter of urgent interests of a personal nature which would mean that the person concerned could not reasonably be required to be tested, are clear, I think we can keep the legal building on that point. Then there is still the question of how we can release a penalty clause on a carrier that is not a Dutch company, on the actual people who work for that carrier and who are not Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's leave legal covert language behind us. Technically, this is a restriction on transport, but in practical terms it is often a prohibition on entering the country where certain conditions are not met. This is contrary to Article 3, paragraph 2, Fourth Protocol to the ECHR and Article 12 of the IVBPR. The previous speakers also mentioned it. I am referring to Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union, which provides that no one may be deprived of the right to enter the territory of the State of which he is a national. This article allows an exception. The Council of State has pointed this out to us. After all, the government also has a constitutional duty to monitor public health, which is to be understood as preventing viruses, also mutated ones, from entering the Netherlands. Measures taken in this context must be proportionate. That is the key concept as far as I am concerned. The emergency law we are discussing today is likely to be proportionate in relation to the purpose that it serves, following the addition of the fifth paragraph, provided that the implementation is also designed and implemented in this way. In this case, proportionality means, in the case of the hardness clause of paragraph 5, that consideration should be given to the uniqueness of every citizen and his situation, and that consideration should be given to the general interest of public health. A parliamentary inquiry on this principle has recently been completed and I think it was the subject of the Council of Ministers this morning. Not every returnee is a partying vacationer from Zanzibar who breaks the rules. Not every holidaymaker is comparable either. An absolute ban is therefore not proportionate. Therefore, in addition to the debate yesterday in the House of Representatives, the following questions on the implementation of the hardness clause in particular. A hardness clause exists for circumstances which were not to be foreseen when making the rule, but which nevertheless require that the rule should not be applied. Hardness clauses are normal for governments and not for transport companies. As the whole scheme actually carries, the authorities here ask transport companies to do their work on admission. How does that work in practice? At the airport gate at Zanzibar, must the steward of the KLM determine whether there is an unforeseen situation? Are instructions given to him or her, other than the statement that it can only be applied in very exceptional situations? And how do you show as a traveler that you haven't been able to get tested? Are there any evidence or formal conditions? Is there a hotline for travelers or transport companies with the Ministry to ask questions? Who checks on the basis of which a transport company correctly applied the hardness clause? Can the Minister give more examples than the earthquake he was talking about in the House of Representatives? Finally, can the Minister promise that application of the hardness clause, both admissions and rejections, will be monitored by the government and assessed for reasonableness? These are individual cases, which are generally well-balanced in relation to the general interest. Then there's the letter of the law. It is now stated in the bill that a traveller may be transported, I quote "if the traveller can show a test result to the passenger transport provider and a supervisor, which shows that he was not infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus at the time of testing." But no traveler can meet that, because a PCR test does not show this with certainty. There are also false negative results. So the letter of the law is problematic in that sense. On this point, can the Minister promise that the rule in practice means that a test result of a reliable quality and execution has to be presented? And can the Minister point out where this information can be found for travelers and transporters? Finally, people who test positive. What does the Netherlands do if someone becomes seriously ill abroad but there is no ic-capacity in that country, for example? Is the Dutch government then obliged to assist such a person, possibly to help him come to the Netherlands in a special way? So what's going on? Then I had the question of whether vaccination could replace a negative test, but at least Mr Janssen has already asked for it. Given the time I stop here and look forward to the answer to the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Several colleagues have already said it: words matter. I couldn't agree more. In that light, I thought I would start with the Minister, the colleagues and the people in the country behind the tube and wish them a blessed New Year. Mr. Chairman. There are probably colleagues in this room who are affected by the travel virus. People who always feel that pleasant, undecided tickle when they enter the grounds of Schiphol. As far as I'm concerned, quite a recognizable virus, and not unpleasant. Due to corona, the word "travel virus" unfortunately has a very different sound. Who takes the plane or the boat, these days wonders: does the virus also travel with me? He's an uninvited guy we like to keep out the door. The SGP therefore appreciates the government's efforts to contribute to this as much as possible. The SGP does have the impression that we are still somewhat mopping with the crane open. If I am not mistaken, Schiphol was the busiest hub in Europe in December. We're worried about who's coming back, but in the meantime, I'm wondering if we're not letting civilians leave too easily for a sun holiday. Those who do not leave the country do not have to return. Why doesn't the government choose a somewhat rougher attitude than just an advice to avoid unnecessary foreign travel? Does this have anything to do with the consequences for the state treasury and the airline industry, or is this really the most logical policy in terms of content? Mr. Chairman. In view of the role of the First Chamber, it is also a good thing if the judge keeps the legislator in mind if necessary. In this case, the SGP can only endorse the judge's judgment that the temporary corona law does not provide a basis for requiring a corona test when travelling. The legal treatment leaves no doubt about that. What we are doing with this bill is only making it possible to have a mandatory test result on foreign travel. Can the government confirm that there is no room for this obligation to be applied in the Netherlands too, for domestic movements, so to speak? This is essential for the SGP. It is important that the legislator always makes a clear statement on far-reaching restrictions on fundamental rights and that the government recognises that this requires an explicit legal basis. Finally, the SGP has a question about the hardness clause. It's good that it's there for Dutch people. It is important for them to be able to travel in special situations if they have not been able to do a test. However, why does the government not require a test to be carried out on arrival in the Netherlands? Isn't it important to have an insight into whether these people are infected? I also ask for a hardness clause for non-Dutch. Can the government imagine that it may sometimes be necessary, for example in the event of a loved one's funeral? And then what do we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Otten, on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. Our group also fully endorses your introductory remarks on the power of the word. "Everyone is about his own words, but words have consequences." That's what I said in April 2019 in an unnoticed interview in NRC Handelsblad. That words have consequences, we also saw in Washington this week. Mr. Chairman. Legal panic football; another name our group cannot think of for the proposed amendment of the Public Health Act, which is now being rushed by the Second and First Chambers with bloodshed, after Minister De Jonge received a heavy blow from the court of The Hague on New Year's Eve. Unfortunately, this is symptomatic of the total lack of direction and the constant absence of proactive policy in the Rutte/De Jonge cabinet with regard to the fight against the coronavirus, which has already been recalled by other parties. Mr. Backer of D66 mentioned playing hockey with multiple pucks. That immediately reminded me of the well-known saying of the ex hockey legend Wayne Gretzky, who debited this wisdom: "I skate to where the puck is going to be, not where it has been." As far as we are concerned, Minister Hugo de Jonge and the rest of the cabinet should hang over their beds, because that is what is constantly going wrong here: they are constantly chasing the facts instead of getting ahead of the curve. Mr. Chairman. The pleasure with which Minister De Jonge joins talk shows to explain to us in many words that everything is going great and that everything is under control, is unfortunately inversely proportional to his enthusiasm to answer for his policy in this First Chamber. Singing songs in All you need is love, you can always wake the minister up for that, but a well-sleeped policy to take the right measures with foresight and, above all, to take those measures in good time seems to always fail, not to mention the current vaccination fiasco. Mr. Chairman. Where's the Prime Minister in all this? Merkel is in charge in Germany and Boris Johnson is in charge in the UK, but the only management of the prime minister in the corona crisis seems to be to manage the problems mostly off his own plate: a leader who refuses to take the lead, while the corona crisis is now more than ever chiefsache. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of VWS sent us a letter asking us to get this emergency legislation through the First Chamber as soon as possible, but now refuses to come to the First Chamber and be present at this examination. Our group therefore opposed this at the joint committee meeting this morning. I just noticed that this objection was also included in the final report. Mr. Chairman. Inside chambers and in this First Chamber, I have often indicated to the cabinet that the quality of legislation is increasingly starting to take on worrying forms. Sometimes it seems as if the ministries no longer have enough good legislative lawyers. We saw this with the PAS, the nitrogen legislation, the Environment Act, the Merger Test Secondary Education Act and the controversial Corona Warfare Act, to name but a few. It's starting to become a pattern. I think that has already been mentioned by Mr Janssen van de SP. That pattern we're seeing here is very worrying. As far as our group is concerned, this is a task for the Minister of Justice and Security to address this quickly and decisively and to drastically improve the quality of legislation. As I said in the case of the Corona Warfare Act, after a year and a half in this First Chamber, our group increasingly comes to the conclusion that the quality of the legislation in this First Chamber is undervalued. If we, as First Members of Parliament, refuse to do our job properly or are unable to do so, then perhaps we should replace the First Chamber with a constitutional court that will review the legislation in accordance with the Constitution. After all, we are not here a stamp machine for the Rutte cabinet. Then I come to a number of aspects of the proposed changes to the Public Health Act. The court of The Hague in its judgment of 31 December 2020 judges a Dutchman who wants to return from Zanzibar to the Netherlands: "The conclusion should therefore already be that plaintiffs are entitled to complain that they are being forced to have a PCR test carried out against their will. Such a duty applies to a Dutch national who wishes to return home requires a sound legal basis and is not laid down in Article 53 or 54 of the Public Health Act." The judge's view that Dutch nationals cannot be refused access to the Netherlands without a legal basis was to be foreseen, was it not? Our question to the Minister is therefore how he could have overlooked such a basic aspect of this legislation. Another question that immediately occurred to us was: how do other countries do this? As far as our group is concerned, in dealing with the corona crisis, the Rutte cabinet looks far too little at other countries that face the same problems around the world as we do here in the Netherlands. Sometimes it seems as if the Netherlands wants to invent everything on its own first and adapts the policy by means of experimental learning and by means of traps and standing up. What we are seeing now is a real-time benchmarking of Dutch policy with the rest of the world. As far as we are concerned, the report figure for the Rutte/De Jonge cabinet has so far been a grossly inadequate one. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of the delegation. The Council of State notes that the proposed fourth paragraph of Article 58p may impose requirements on the test. There is a so-called optional delegation clause here. In other words, it leaves a little open how long the test should be done and so on. As the Council of State also points out, the time limit for the test to be carried out in relation to entry into the Netherlands is particularly important, especially with the more contagious British virus variant that is now beginning to strike in the Netherlands and other parts of the world. This is essential for this law to be effective, according to the Council of State. And so do we. The Advisory Section of the Council of State therefore recommends opting for a less non-binding and mandatory delegation clause. What will the Cabinet do with this opinion from the Council of State? We look forward to the answer from the cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mr. Otten, perhaps one factual correction: it is not the case that the Minister refused to come at the invitation of the Chamber. Then there would have been a mistake with the President-in-Office if I were to rest there. I understand from the committee that only the Minister of JenV has been invited for the time being. So I invited him. If the House decides by a majority that it wishes to invite another government representative, then I will send out that invitation without delay and I will not settle for a minister's refusal, because that would be a mistake on the part of the state.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u25	At least this morning we did everything we could to get the Minister of Health here, but unfortunately we did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u26	The majority did not decide in this way, but you certainly have the right to do so. Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Van Pareren on behalf of the Van Pareren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prevention is necessary. Concentration on tests for travellers in the Netherlands is a necessity as part of the overall covid policy or, if you would like to call it that, of the overall corona policy in the Netherlands. That is why we only really have a few questions for the Minister. The Cabinet. A lot of questions have already been asked, so I've already split up some of them. An important question is, of course, why we do not decide to test when entering the Netherlands and possibly to set up a quarantine there. After all, these tests are quick, so the virus can be detected quickly. The second question is: why only the PCR test? After all, other in vitro tests are also used that are just as good or better, or whatever you want to call it. For example, Australia has extensively tested its total population with in vitro tests and not the PCR test. It has been mentioned before, but I repeat it. How does this law deal with passengers who have already been vaccinated in their country or with Dutch people who have already been vaccinated abroad? Do those passengers still have to be tested, or is that enough? Our group is not clear on what applies to car traffic, to individuals who cross the border by car, because you can still easily get from Portugal to the Netherlands via Spain, France and Belgium depending on how you drive. It's possible. At the border there are no large groups calling "testing, testing, testing." How does the government look at that and how does it intend to control that traffic? If this law comes into force now, we are sympathetic to it, then it may happen that the judge overrule it a little. The judge says something and, go!, You're gonna have some sort of Urgenda-like situation, but in the corona world. That immediately raises the question of whether we are also looking at other laws that we have or at legal situations that are now occurring. How is it secured that no "Urgendatjes" can come out of that? That's what I call it. That may require an additional safeguard, or at least an additional investigation. Speaking of guarantees, there is also talk of tests taking place abroad. You'll be tested abroad. How does the government plan to get the fraudulent tests out? There has already been talk of copies or print screens, or whatever you want to call it. How can we guarantee that? How can we be sure that it is a result of a test that is done well and that, of course, a secure result is shown? I repeat it for a moment, but it has already been mentioned this afternoon: the conflict with international law. I am curious to hear the answers to the questions that have already been asked. Mr President, those are actually the questions. We are sympathetic to this bill. We feel the situation which has arisen, and I said it this morning at the committee meeting. The virus that invades the country was already near Utrecht this morning. It almost seems that if we talk for a very long time, it will be in The Hague as well. The cabinet must therefore have the opportunity to react ad brakely to situations. We can now have whole debates on how the whole policy is going, but I do not think that is at all relevant at the moment. It's just about the question that lies ahead. Mr President, that concludes my contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given the need to prevent the import of new infections from abroad, the PVV Group understands the urgency of the bill. However, with regard to the feasibility of the law, we still have some critical questions and comments. If Dutch people want to travel back to the Netherlands from abroad, they will be obliged to submit a negative test result before they can enter the aircraft in particular. This could have practical consequences. In many countries there is a visa requirement to stay in the country. A traveller can get into trouble if the validity of the visa expires shortly after the intended departure to the Netherlands, but for certain reasons he cannot have a negative test result in time. The carrier should refuse the traveller under this law, but the traveller can no longer, in principle, stay in the country in question. Visa expiry may have serious consequences in some countries, such as prison sentences for illegal residence. Can the Minister indicate to what extent such situations have been taken into account? How can passengers be prevented from falling between shore and ship? Mr. Chairman. In the Lower House, the PVV has already drawn attention to the unclear situation surrounding the transfer passengers. For example, according to the Minister, only transfer passengers who remain in the aircraft during a stopover would not be required to carry out a negative test result, but would be required to transfer passengers at the airport. De Telegraaf Financiën reported yesterday that, according to the industry organisation BARIN, the cabinet is putting further pressure on Schiphol Aerodrome Node, by demanding a negative corona test from switching passengers at Schiphol Airport. In particular, air carrier KLM, whose passengers switch to hundreds of destinations at Schiphol Airport, would be hit by this measure. As switching operators do not have to do so at other competing aviation centres in Europe, there is an uneven playing field. Can the Minister indicate whether the cabinet can see if there is any possibility of reducing this damage to the aviation sector and, where possible, preventing international air passengers from being sucked away to airports abroad, while at the same time taking appropriate measures against infections? Finally, Mr President. This law creates a temporary basis. But nothing about this temporaryity has been determined in the bill itself. Can the Minister explain how the temporary nature of these measures is regulated? Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mrs Bikker has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Words matter, and what we sow, we shall reap. It is a good thing that politicians and leaders, wherever they are, are aware of that. That is why I would like to underline your words. Mr President, now for this bill. The corona pandemic is worldwide and the figures underline the seriousness. The number of infections continues to increase, and to our regret also the number of people who become seriously ill or die as a result of corona. There's been a lot of suffering. It is and will continue to work hard to put out this fire, at least if possible to reduce it and to keep an eye on the people who are on the front line. At the moment there are two new variants, the British and the South African, where the main concern is that they are even more contagious that the previously known virus. Probably won't be the last mutations. If this virus is to be effectively reduced and eventually eradicated, we must keep a close eye on the growth or reduction of the number of infected within regions, and we must keep the rate of transfer between regions as low as possible. In that light, the 85th OMT opinion is clear. My group supports the measures taken by the cabinet to promote this. However, this means, in practical terms, a reduction in fundamental rights. Free travel, the protection of the integrity of the body and the privacy of every citizen are affected. At the same time, according to Article 22 of the Constitution, the public authorities must promote public health and combat a pandemic. A restriction of fundamental rights can then, if well weighted and with a legal basis. The containment must be proportional. The Christian Union Group believes that the cabinet now provides the basis for this. However, she asked the Minister of Justice whether lessons had been learned in this course of events on how the government should deal with rules affecting fundamental rights. In other words, is the fundamental review in the process of legislative preparation in the ministries adequately secured or is it important to strengthen it? This could be done, for example, by giving a more explicit mandate to the Ministry of Justice. I would like an answer to this question, Mr President. The new proposed fifth paragraph of Article 58p Wpg, Public Health Act, provides the basis that every Dutchman can always return to his own country, even if a test result cannot be obtained for a particular reason. The Group of the Christian Union urges the Minister to inform and prepare consular assistance on this issue, so that distressing situations in which action is necessary in the short term are quickly resolved and where possible prevented. The Christian Union Group still has two questions. The first one looks at the vaccine. Several colleagues have already pointed it out. What consequences does vaccination have for a traveler? Is he still obliged to submit a test result or is the Minister considering a different course of action? Doing a test after vaccination will not correspond directly to the psychology of the vaccinated person. So that is an important point. In addition, the still unknown duration of the protective action of a vaccine is a complicating factor. That's a little out of the question, but it's important. Shouldn't we be paying more attention to this? Even if it's just for the uncertainty that plays in these things. The second question concerns the possibility of setting up a test obligation between regions at home. What if an internal region peaks hugely, is there any possibility of taking such measures? In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the Minister continues to talk only about travel between the Caribbean part of the Netherlands and the European Netherlands. I would like to comment on this aspect. Mr President, I will conclude. These are complicated times and there is a lot of demand from this cabinet, which every Dutchman then has strong views on. That is precisely why I wish the cabinet wisdom, insight, strength and blessing in this intense and heavy work, which must also be carried out in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. I agree with what you said at the beginning about the events of 6 January 2021, about what took place inside and outside the Capitol in Washington, the heart of American democracy. In our heart of democracy, in this historic Knight's Room, we weigh our words and debate with respect. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS supports the objective of the bill, as it aims to prevent further spread of the virus, where it is and remains essential to provide solutions for citizens for whom the PCR test abroad is not available while there is an urgent need for them to return to the Netherlands without delay, as in the event of someone's death. 50PLUS follows the ruling in principle. The Supreme Court has said that working with emergency regulations for this restriction of fundamental rights is not enough. The Law on Temporary Measures covid-19 also does not allow mandatory testing, in accordance with the opinion and position of the Council of State. That is why today, under great pressure, this bill is being dealt with for the first time in 70 years on a Friday. In relation to this bill, can the Minister comment on the Fourth Protocol to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, which provides that no one may be deprived of the right to enter the territory of the State of which he is a national? Otherwise asked and said: how does this bill relate to international conventions such as the ECHR? Mr. Chairman. The motion adopted in the Lower House on piece No. 14 (35695) from my colleague Van Otterloo and from Paternotte of D66 states that there must be sufficient rapid testing capacity at arrival points of the organised transport modes, so that anyone who has not undergone PCR test can be tested immediately upon arrival. Can the Minister give the guarantee in this case quo give the undertaking that when this law enters into force that fast test capacity was realized everywhere? Or does the Minister think that this is another time limit and, if so, what is the time limit? In other words, how short will it have to be for effective operation of the scheme? More specifically, can the rapid test be carried out directly on arrival at Schiphol Airport, for example, on that category of travellers who left without PCR test? If not, how long will it take for this capacity to be in order in all places? I'd like a clear response from the Minister. A lot of questions have already been asked. I do not need to repeat it here, but I would like to add two more questions. I think Mr Janssen was right to ask why the German regime was not considered, which is perhaps less complicated and less legally vulnerable. I also agree with two questions put by Mr Van Pareren. He asked why there was a restriction to the PCR test and pointed out Australia. He also asked about the traffic by car. Mr. Chairman. The presence of a hardness clause is very important for practice and therefore also in this case. In tax law, we know him. We have also seen in the allowances that if he is missing, this will have disastrous consequences for the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u34	I know the Paternotte/Van Otterloo motion, but that is actually an ultimatum remedium. You want the test done when boarding, because you can naturally infect others on a full plane. That is also, in part, the point Mr Van Hattem raised. Transfer passengers are in there, too. They're gonna spread out again after that. So that plane itself has become an infection fireplace. So do you agree with me that it is an ultimum remedium to do this, if there is no other way to do it, at the airport? That is, of course, also different from the German proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u35	Yes, I agree with Mr Backer. To make things even wider, the Cabinet and the Chamber share the view that we should keep the 1.5 metres in corona time. This now includes: stay at home and don't travel. In line with that advice, if you travel, you should actually take the most effective measures at the beginning. If that does not happen, what we are discussing today must be properly arranged and guaranteed at least on arrival. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more point about the ECHR. That is a very interesting issue. It does indeed play a role in all fundamental rights. It also plays in property law. For example, we know Article 5 of our Constitution for property rights. We know Article 17 of the European Charter and we know Article 1, the Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights, which deals with the protection of property rights. You will not be surprised that I urge you to do so, because this also applies to the limitation of pension rights, which this cabinet is very much in favour of. I predict that hot debates and many procedures will take place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mrs Prins-Moderaar, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the CDA, I would like to thank you very much for the words you spoke at the start of this debate. That we can always keep those in mind in the coming year! We live in hectic times. Unfortunately, we have to note that the number of infections with the COVID-19 virus is still not falling, quite the contrary. And then we don't know what the various variants with a greater degree of infection will have. In the care sector, the tension and workload are extreme: in hospitals, but also in nursing homes and in the disabled sector, where I myself work. The employees are on their last legs. Regular care is only carried out in a limited way. In some places the care continuity is already in danger and code black is also really close. And at the same time we see the economic and social consequences of this unfortunately necessary lockdown. Entrepreneurs are concerned about their company and parents about their children who cannot go to school. Young people are lonely and worried about their studies, and so on. Mr. Chairman. This time requires all of us as citizens, as fellow human beings, to take our responsibility for yourselves and for the others. You may ask anyone to change their behaviour to stop the growth of this virus as much as possible, both here in the Netherlands and when you want to come back to the Netherlands from high-risk areas. Surely you should expect every traveler to act accordingly. Isn't it sad, in fact, that one doesn't want to be tested, but is it a legal joust to see if the law is waterproof? Unfortunately, that is what is happening, and that is why this law is necessary for clarification. In line with previous speakers, we have one question: how will people who have already been vaccinated be dealt with? Hopefully that's our perspective. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group believes it is of the utmost importance that the Fourth Protocol to the ECHR should not deprive anyone of the right to enter the territory of the State of which he is a national. This also applies, of course, to the physical integrity of everyone. However, it is not for nothing that there are legal possibilities to deviate temporarily from this legislation in the event of major emergencies and major risks to public health, which is why we support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Finally, Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman from the VVD Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to wish you, the colleagues, all the staff and not least the directors, represented here today in the person of Mr Grapperhaus, a very good and prosperous and, above all, healthy 2021. I wish everyone that this terrible pandemic will come to an end next year, but for the time being, despite the euphoria of the first vaccinations, we are facing major challenges in combating this pandemic, especially now that it appears that new mutations of the virus are circulating, causing the disease to spread even more rapidly and additional risks are emerging in relation to the functioning of the vaccines. Unorthodox measures remain therefore necessary to keep those mutations out of the door in particular. The mandatory negative PCR test for travellers from risk areas is one of those measures. A necessary measure to protect our health, but at the same time a restriction on our constitutional freedoms. It is therefore a good thing that the present legislative proposal clarifies the basis for conditional access to passenger transport services. The VVD Group considers the proposal proportionate, given the severity of the pandemic. The proposal contains a safety net provision for travellers who are unable to be tested, and the temporary measure COVID-19 provides that the provision will not last longer than is necessary to combat the pandemic. The VVD Group will therefore support this law. One final question to the Minister. There is some unrest about the falsifications of test results. Above all, I find it very sad and also very irresponsible that people continue to look for ways of circumventing the measures that have also been devised for their safety. But, I ask the Minister, will there be an additional check on the forms on entry into the Netherlands, for example by customs, and will there be actively prosecuted when there is falsehood in writing? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 2:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u41	We now need the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr President, thank you. This thanks not only for giving me the floor, but also for giving me the floor on behalf of the government at such short notice, and then on a Friday at least. If I learn from you today that it is 70 years since your Chamber last met on a Friday, I realise that on behalf of the Cabinet I have made a very exceptional appeal to you. I'm afraid that appeal was also urgently needed. Because the virus situation is still worrying. However, just this: we are in almost all regions in the Netherlands in the category "very serious," so more than 250 positive results per 100,000. The Netherlands, with up to 900 in recent weeks, is also well above many other European countries. Gradually, very slowly, we are moving in a direction where we are less high, but also in the countries around us I will say something about what is going to be done there or is being done on the point of negative PCR tests for travelers.................................................................................................................................................................................... This pandemic, of course, is an enormous evil, and I cannot help saying that it has happened to us as a society and also an evil that has shrouded itself in all kinds of mists. Finally, I would like to comment on the criticism that some of your Members have voiced about the way in which the cabinet is handling matters. I would also like to say that I am absolutely not a hockey player. I also think that if you don't practice that sport, you shouldn't go into metaphors like that, because then you don't know what you're talking about. But the hockey players in the room today who were critical, I will certainly answer. Mr. Chairman. I will go straight to the answers to the questions. In any case, as far as I am concerned, we really have a great deal to do in the context of this legislative proposal, which, as far as I am concerned as Minister of Justice and Security, and hence also the Cabinet, is really a clarification of the basis. With that, I also respond directly to Mrs De Boer. The point is that you will also find this in the explanatory memorandum that the cabinet cannot wait to see how a possible appeal procedure will end and how short-term proceedings will end in the coming days. We really have to act, as some of you have rightly pointed out, and then, of course, sensible legal action, as Mr Nicolaï has pointed out, among other things. Whether it is virus-proof, if I may say so as a paraphrase of the word 'waterproof' used by Mr Nicolaï, I cannot guarantee as I stand here. This is mainly due to the fact that this virus still carries a high degree of unexpectedness and unpredictability. We have also seen evidence of this in the emergence of those very much more contagious British and South African variants. So I come back to the point of this bill, the circle is complete. The need to link the entry into the Netherlands to a negative PCR test became very clear at least during the weekend of 19 and 20 December. At that time, the virus was very clearly visible and it was also clear that it would only have been working for a longer period of time with the failure to allow aircraft and ferries from the United Kingdom, which would have been more likely to play if it had been the case for all the high-risk countries, which would have caused all kinds of practical problems. Just think of the point that you are with all kinds of cargoes from for the Netherlands also important goods that would not be able to enter the country. I am not going to go into that now. In any event, this has led to the initial designation of aircraft pursuant to Articles 53 and 54 Wpg and Article 58p for trains and buses. Then we're talking about passenger transport. Following the ruling of the Supreme Court, it was said that we should still find the basis for the aircraft in an emergency arrangement under the Temporary Law measures covid-19, you know, and, to be sure, I am also back to Mrs De Boer's question in order to raise the question above any doubt yet to include an explicit legal basis in Article 58p. I'm not going to go into those other foundations. I'm really going to focus on the bill before us. Then I shall begin with a number of general legal points. After that, I come to the questions that have been asked about the 72-hour period. I shall then give an overview of other European countries, particularly Belgium and Germany. Then I come to things like how the carriers are going to do it and how the checks are going to be done. Then I come to paragraph 5, which has been mentioned by many of you. And last, but certainly not least, I am going to deal with Mr Janssen's point on his motion. Then I'll close with that point of the, if I understand correctly, reactive hockey puck. Mr. Chairman. Legally general. In fact, Mr Janssen said: why did we not immediately make this ministerial arrangement, save an interim ruling? Well, since the introduction of the Public Health Act, 15 years ago, there have been specific foundations for requirements for incoming passengers through air and shipping. That is why that route was initially chosen. We must therefore realise that Articles 53 and 54 of the Wpg Treaty are precisely on this point. It has been argued against, and there has been a ruling on it. The cabinet has appealed against this and still believes that this should be a proper basis. In any case, even if that judgment would be upheld on appeal and in cassation, the law now provides the basis, if this amendment of law is passed by your Chamber. Apart from that, as a cabinet, as I said, we cannot afford to do that appeal or that cassation, even if you did so in an emergency apple or, as I used to do as a lawyer, in a so-called "turbo apple" that actually exists to wait. We must act now. This means that as soon as that court ruling was given, we immediately said: we are going to work primarily with an urgent ministerial arrangement under the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and, to be sure, this legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u43	Then I still don't understand why, for the sake of safety, this law hasn't been chosen. We have had a legal treatment in which it has been very clearly stated that the Temporary Law measures covid-19 is intended to also restrict fundamental rights in the name of corona. Every so many sentences, the word "corona" comes back to this. It wasn't like that 15 years ago. So we have a law specifically designed to limit fundamental rights in the context of this corona pandemic. Would it not have been more obvious to base this fundamental rights restriction on that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u44	Then I'll come back to my point. I've been involved in the crisis structure since day one because of my responsibility. We have, of course, reduced fundamental rights from the outset under the Public Health Act. The point is that the Council of State, in May or early June, excuses me for not having said the exact date: 'Yes, the government, you have been doing this for two and a half months now, but it is based on all kinds of measures such as emergency regulations'. Pay attention: emergency regulations. That is what the Council of State said: 'You must give it a more lasting, firmer basis'. The Temporary Law measures covid-19 therefore mainly looked at those matters that we were doing through emergency regulations on the basis of the Public Health Act. That's more like Article 6, fourth paragraph, of the Public Health Act. There was no reason for us to assume that Article 53 in conjunction with 54 Wpg did not provide sufficient basis. If the judge in a preliminary ruling says that he actually does at the moment, you would probably have said in a non-crisis situation: well, we're going to appeal and we're going to have that discussion again. We do not know that, because it is a crisis situation, but the point is that we cannot afford to have all kinds of people report to airlines' offices abroad while there is an appeal and say: we can go back. It is true that the Temporary Law measures covid-19 came from that point of the Council of State where they said: 'What you are doing now with emergency regulations, you must have a more parliamentary basis for that first'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u45	Yes, but if that were the case for those emergency regulations, would a temporary law restricting fundamental rights specifically in the context of this pandemic, with a finiteness in it, have been much more obvious? The Minister says: "Yes, we did not foresee that 53/54 would not be sufficient, because they have been for 15 years, so to speak." But we're in an exceptional situation and we run into this every time. That's why I was talking about a pattern. Each time we run into something not foreseen which could have been a possibility. So why not use the law right away? Now we are taking that intermediate step again, because now we are on the third step with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u46	Again, I stand for this. I have always taken the view that Articles 53 and 54 provided a sufficient basis for this. That then a little bit... No, that's an ugly neologism. It may then result in some implementing technique via the airport authorities to the airlines, but that assessment has been made from the outset. And again, there will be an evaluation of what crisis policy has been like. I am sure that this evaluation will consider many of the measures that we have taken since the beginning of March. From the outset, many fundamental rights experts have said: can this be done in the direction of fundamental rights? As a goalkeeper of fundamental rights, I have said for a very long time in the cabinet: yes, I believe that this can still be done within the framework of all the principles of proportionality and efficiency. But the Chamber also knows that at some point at the end of April I was the first to write to Parliament that I thought we should look at such a law. That law came into force in November, and that is very good news. That means that you are now regulating that system of emergency regulations through this law. The debate with the judge has not been decided on whether or not this can be done under Articles 53 and 54, but I am not only the Minister of Justice, but also the Minister of Security. I believe that, as Minister of Justice, I should like to end my appeal as a minister of security to ensure that those passengers do not enter. That is why I said that we must at least have this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u47	Mr Janssen, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u48	Finally. Nor was I concerned with the need for this law. I was concerned with the choice which the Minister said: it was my opinion that it was possible under Rule 53, 54. That is a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u49	It wasn't like, "I could do it." I'm a little keen on that. From the very beginning, we have always weighed as a cabinet what we are allowed to do, what we can do under Article 6 (4). In the meantime, it has come out that the Prime Minister and I were very much in the beginning when there were two of us, and we are responsible for saying that, for example, we are not going to declare a state of emergency, because that is what we find, weighing everything up, insufficient proportionality in spite of this terrible virus. Those are the considerations you make. You make it very well-balanced. That's been recorded. All kinds of lawyers have been involved. That goes for this too. I repeat, the debate on the basis of Rule 53, 54 has not yet been completed at all. That could happen on appeal or in cassation. In the meantime, however, I think that from the second responsibility I have, I must prevent people from coming in, in line with this statement, possibly one or two more statements on bunches without a negative PCR test. That's my responsibility, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u50	Just before the fact. I hear the Minister say that he thought that Articles 53 and 54 of the law already provided a sufficient basis, but those are provisions which assume that there has been a serious suspicion of illness on board. What we are talking about now is what makes it so strange that healthy people, at least people without symptoms, are being tested. That's a whole different situation. We've never had that before. It has never been mentioned in the Public Health Act. I don't hear the Minister about that. I think the people who say there was a need for a new law are right. It's good that this new law is here. That is what my group is for, I say immediately. We need to get the hang of this. But we shouldn't pretend it was already settled. That's what I wanted to tell the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u51	We will come, I expect, in the future at least, as long as I am still present in any post-election status, no doubt to talk about the evaluation that the Security Research Council is now doing of how the crisis approach has been. I would like to say to Mr Nicolaï that we remember each other, at least I know him from the college banks, so perhaps I owe him a little bit too much to say that there have been a lot of times in that crisis when we had to consider whether or not we could impose a measure in the light of fundamental rights but also other interests. Just think of all the problems involved in the closure of companies and what is more. Those are trade-offs you're making. Certainly, if we look afterwards, at certain times there will have been considerations that we later say: you should have made different or you could have made different. I don't know yet. The judge's ruling shall be an interim appeal. From the fact that the judge considered in the second case last Tuesday that he would postpone his ruling until next Monday, thus also giving time to work on it, we can conclude that there too the seriousness of the situation, as Mr Nicolaï says, is seen. By the way, the Council of State has looked into it. Others have also looked at it. I think that the considerations have been made very carefully, but we will only be able to determine afterwards whether we could not have done anything more then or not. We can talk about it now, but I am not yet ready to say: that was wrong at the time. This will have to be reflected in the finalisation of the proceedings before the courts or in subsequent judgments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u52	I walked here because I heard the Minister say that I was a little concerned that the comment of the Council of State in May or June that a legal framework was needed was the reason for the cabinet to create that legal framework and that it had to do so. My idea is: it should not be because the Council of State says it, but it should be because it has to. Also on the basis of the further answers and the whole attitude of the cabinet, I always have the idea: we are restricting fundamental rights and we are not going to settle that legal basis until we can really get out of it. I charge a little. I do not want to anticipate an evaluation either, but I hope that the cabinet will be able to take a little more care of it, and not only if we really cannot get out of it. The restriction of fundamental rights requires a specific legal basis, and at the moment of doubt we are going to create it. I hope that can be the future approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u53	It sounds a little harsh when I say that Mrs De Boer is wronging me and my words just now. Because I have just said that at the end of April I have to find that letter in your archives and have sent a letter to both chambers in which I have written: I find it unfortunate that we have been working on these emergency regulations for six weeks and so I think we really need to look at a more thorough and better legal basis. I referred to the fact that the Council of State repeated this at the end of May or the beginning of June. I say it a little disrespectful. But I don't want to be that disrespectful; you don't know me that way. The Council of State has repeated this in response to a request from the Member Van der Staaij of the House of Representatives to give an opinion on this matter. That was because the request for advice of Van der Staaij and my letter to both Chambers had almost crossed. That happens even in the era of e-mail fortunately. That's very old-fashioned, but it was. I can assure you that we have had this discussion in the heart of the crisis cabinet in the Catshuis at the beginning of April. The second point I have to formulate very carefully, because otherwise it sounds too challenging, but that is not what I mean: there are moments in an unprecedented crisis like this that you have to take one uncertain for another. That's very nasty. Nor can I guarantee here that, in retrospect, we have always made the right constitutional assessment when it comes to taking measures or taking steps. However, I am insisting that maximum care has always been taken in the decision-making process and what advice preceded it. There have been a number of questions asked by Members of your Chamber, which I would like to raise in a moment. Those were questions about whether I'd end up here and the like. I have said from day one: the gospel comes from the Outbreak Management Team, behind it the RIVM, the Health Council and that kind of college, and the Economic and Social Council when it comes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u54	I apologize to the Minister. It is true that I failed you, because you did mention that you pointed this out yourself in April. My point is that I still keep feeling that that legal basis is seen in the sense of "if we really have to, we'll do it." However, my hope is that the approach would be 'better safe than sorry', also in order to avoid such court rulings in the future. The more robust the measures are, the "robuuster" means a specific legal basis, the more solid they are, including in legal proceedings. That's what I want to give you most of all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u55	What we are seeing now is, of course, that a lot of time has been wasted over the past six months on an app-law and an emergency law which overlooks this aspect of travellers. You name it all; a lot of time has been wasted. You're talking about the OMT and all the authorities. There has, of course, been a huge polder model in which everyone had to say something about this, when it should have been used to plan a vaccination policy, such as in Israel, where 20% of the population has already been vaccinated, and to build a system around this whole organizational poldermare thing that prevents us from operating effectively. My question is: does the Minister think that the government has had the priorities in this area in the past few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u56	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u57	That is a very short and powerful answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u58	It was a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u59	However, I would like to explain this. Why hasn't anyone been vaccinated yet? Why are we the last to be launched across the EU? Why isn't anything prepared? Why has everyone been working on an app law, an emergency law and all sorts of things, when there were actually quite different priorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u60	I can assure you that I stand by my short yes. Of course, I would also like to explain this to your Members, because otherwise it would be very easy to do so, perhaps even almost second-hand car dealership. So I would like to give some explanation, but then I will stay a little away from a number of why-questions that are based on an incorrect factual basis. Let's start with this being a pandemic. Some in society talk about "a global pandemic," but I don't care. I'm talking about the word "pandemic." We can see that this is something that has struck us all on all sides, even in the sense that we in the Netherlands have a regulation that has a very broad and, as far as I am concerned, legally correct interpretation of fundamental rights, which in our country, when the pandemic broke out, for example, provided a very small amount of room for forced quarantine. A neighbouring country to the east of us has much more possibilities; last summer I was able to put it together in a kind of comparative law investigation. How the pandemic has been combated goes back, of course, to how society works and how the legal and political systems are put together; that is what we see in all those countries in Western Europe, but also in Asia and America. That means you can't compare one-on-one or say: in this country they do sister and in that country they do so. Personally, I found the way in which the Spanish dealt with the hospitality closure quite special, but that translates much more into how busy the hospitality in Spain during the day is much more embedded in society. I am not going to comment on the vaccination policy in Israel, but at some point I have been informed that there really had been more than thirty lockdowns in Israel, after which it opened again, after which there was a lockdown and then it opened again. The experts have told me that, on balance, over the past eight to nine months, this has not produced a very different situation from that in many other countries, but it seems to be because of the specific nature of the country. Now I'm going back to the priorities. I think that evaluations will certainly show that a non-optimal decision has been made in the last nine or ten months. But once again, let us not anticipate that further. In the first five months, when there was still a crisis structure, the cabinet has always set very clear priorities. From the outset, these priorities were epidemiological, virological and medical in the direction of the OMT. In addition, they were behaviorally-communicative, because we also had to get the people along. In addition, they were socio-economic. You know all the emergency arrangements, I won't bother you with them. As you may know, together with the Mayor of Amsterdam, I have set up a working group of experts to look, for example, at the social consequences, especially for all kinds of different youth groups and so on. Those priorities have been transferred to Catshuis and weighed again and again. It is sometimes the case that a certain priority is also called "for some time or a few days" as a priority. After all, you cannot be completely full of priorities at the same time. The way in which this has been handled, including in matters such as vaccination policy, is that expert advice is always listened to very carefully; that is very important. The fact that we are then politically responsible for this is why we have this job and we are not running away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u61	Before I give the floor to Mr Otten for his third question, let me point out that today's legislative debate is on the agenda for a specific question and not a policy debate or evaluation debate. So I would ask you to focus on that. Mr. Otten, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u62	I have been very cautious in this debate so far, Mr President, so I would like to raise this point. It is therefore also a pity that the Minister for Health is not here today, because it is of course about the policy of dealing with the corona crisis. I said earlier in the debate in this First Chamber that the cabinet lost the battle against the coronavirus last summer. Then the test policy should have been scaled up. At least something should have been planned and that did not happen. The ic-beds should have been expanded and people should have been trained so that we could have that capacity. That didn't happen. The vaccination policy in Israel has been planned in recent months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr. Otten...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u64	That didn't happen here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u65	I'm sorry, but you can ask a question about the law now. Otherwise, I won't give you a chance to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u66	And so I see that it has not happened with the passenger event that this law sees. How does the Minister explain that, in addition to all the other matters I mentioned, this has not been considered, for example when dealing with the emergency law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u67	Now, the Minister, and then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u68	I have just been answerable to these questions by Mrs De Boer and Mr Nicolaï. That has nothing to do with the VWS colleague; let me say that. I'm like a certain namer of this cabinet says the house lawyer. The weighing was at some point when we have the basis on the articles of law we discussed earlier. I appreciate the substantive debate with Mr Nicolaï, because I do not think we should do it all too easily. Whether it has been an incorrect balance must be seen in the future. The President has already explained that it is not the case that someone refuses to be here. We also have a Council of Ministers today. I'm terribly sorry, but it's a rather complicated time. There are a few very intense topics going on except covid. I have spent the last four weeks, even under the mistletoe, mainly on ferries and boats and so on. So I thought I could answer all the questions to your Chamber. As soon as there is one where I cannot do so, I will make a small contribution in the form of such a bottle available to a charity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u69	Thank you. Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. There were a number of questions from Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Bikker about domestic movements. Of course, that's not what this is about. It is interesting, because of course you have to start reading Rule 58p (2) and then reading it to 3 and 4; I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Nicolaï. There are people who enter Dutch territory in a means of transport and who have left a high-risk area. Indeed, I do not think I will go myself or that my investigators will go to Gare du Nord, because there we have no jurisdiction. It concerns the passenger who is on Dutch territory and has left... and so on. That is the connection between paragraphs 2 and 4. Mr Nicolaï asked about jurisdiction in criminal matters. There is an article that provides a basis for criminal enforcement. Dutch criminal law applies in the Netherlands. So indeed, a carrier, also a foreign carrier, must ensure that the person using his train in the Netherlands has boarded with a negative PCR result anywhere; he must at least have it with him. With regard to the trains we have extensively expanded this with each other. I won't do that again here. How does that work? Suppose someone gets off in Bad something else, across the border at Hengelo. I've lost the place name; maybe there's someone here who knows. Bad Bentheim! That's him. It's like 2 for 12 in this room. What if someone quit or someone quit Berlin? In any case, from Bad Bentheim we check whether people have a negative PCR test on them, because then you can't get off before you arrive in the Netherlands. But of course, it concerns Dutch territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u71	My question was actually about the third paragraph, point a. This concerns the obligations of the provider. That's what my questions were about. When you get on a plane in Barcelona, it all happens there. This is done under the responsibility of non-Dutch. The Minister's answer is not really about that. That's about someone getting on the train and then crossing the border. I've already forgotten the name. "Bad Bentheim" I believe. That is a Dutchman and can be checked in the Netherlands. You can't be controlled by the Dutch police in Germany. We'll agree on that. But the question is: what is the meaning of the provision in paragraph 3 (a) that the passenger transport operator must provide for something, if all or most of them are providers who are not Dutch nationals and are not companies established in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u72	Yesterday I mentioned in the Lower House a judgment from 1990, the AIDS test judgment. Then a reproach was made to me: see, that's very old justice. If that's all right with you, Mr President, I'm going to do something very bad: I'm going back to 1915 and the ruling on the Azewijn horse. And what about that Azewijn horse? Someone from Germany throws a lasso around the neck of the horse, which is in the Netherlands, and thus leads it away from the Netherlands. I admit it: I can't suppress a smile. I've never seen Lucky Luke do it, but whatever it is, it was forbidden in World War I. At that time, the Supreme Court ruled, and I quote, 'that a crime can be committed very well abroad in the Netherlands'. Mr Nicolaï and the other lawyers present here will agree with me that, if the Supreme Court has considered this, it will be so until the Supreme Court deals with it. And that is something the Supreme Court, in my statistical experience, rarely does. I have to say that the transport companies, including those of foreign origin, have so far expressed no concern or objection to this here. On the contrary, they are even well, how should I put it? I am very pleased about this arrangement, just as shopkeepers claim me with "Minister, please make the mouth cap mandatory, because then we can simply tell people that it is an obligation." Same goes for this. The airlines can now simply say: listen, you have an obligation to have that negative test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u73	It's a nice story about lassos and 1915, but the description of the crime in the same technical terms as the third paragraph (a) means that it involves offering transport, providing access to it and allowing it to be used. When someone gets on a plane in Barcelona, this does not happen in the Netherlands. I assume the Minister agrees with me. There are also no lassos that reach all the way from Barcelona to the Netherlands. So the point is that there is an act taken by the passenger transport operator who is banned here in criminal law. My question is: to what do the Dutch legislator derive the power to criminalise something done by a non-Dutch and non-Dutch society abroad? I'm not asking you that because it's theoretically fun, and so on, but my great fear is... I'd like that arrangement to work. That's what the Minister wants. I think that's what the Chamber wants in a majority here too. But let us be careful that there are no things in it that can be shot down, which will destroy the whole structure. I'm telling you right now, if Virus Truth is in front of the judge, you can arrive with lassos from 1915, but you're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u74	Well, I'm fighting that. Because I just said... Mr. Nicolaï knows that like no other. At least, I learned it from him once at the UvA. I said that it is true that a ruling from our highest court stands, unless we have amended the law since then, but since then there has been no legislation on lassos for Azewijn horses. Well, I guess that's the verdict. But I would like to reassure Mr Nicolaï. I'm gonna go back to the law. Article 58p (2) states that we may lay down rules on access and use of passenger transport facilities. Then it's about: in the Netherlands. Then you go to paragraph 3. Article 58p (2) of the Treaty, I would like to look at Mr Van Dijk, who even deals with transport within the Netherlands. That's about everything. But then we go to paragraph 3. That says, under a and b: you may also lay down rules for a required negative PCR test, when it comes to people who have left the country I am making it very briefly abroad. There are all these other areas, but let's just leave that for a while. The sum of this is that rules can be laid down in the ministerial regulation, the requirement of a test, if you have left abroad and you enter Dutch territory in a means of transport. So that's why Bad Bentheim. I asked the railways or the regiment: how are we going to do that? That means that the controller who gets on the train in Bad Bentheim.......................................................................................................................................................... As long as the passenger travels from Berlin to Bad Bentheim, he is not yet covered by this situation. As soon as he gets out of Bad Bentheim, can't get out and crosses the border, he'll need a negative PCR test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr. Nicolaï, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u76	I like it, but that is the application of paragraph 3 (b). That provision is addressed to the traveller, but I am not talking about the traveller. I'm talking about easyJet, or a lady in Barcelona standing by the gate. It's forbidden here under a. Those people do not get in because they are afraid that they will immediately be caught in the Netherlands with a lasso; they stay there. This is the case: paragraph 3 (a) imposes obligations on the passenger transport operator. Those aren't the travelers. I think the Minister should answer that. He comes up with a judgment all the time relating to a crime committed from Germany in the Netherlands, which thus took place in the Netherlands, but this is a description of a crime involving acts taking place abroad. My question is very specific: is that justified? If the Minister might come to the conclusion that it is not justified, we should perhaps decide, in fact, to keep the third paragraph of paragraph a, when the case is published, out of the loop, in order to avoid shooting at it and we have debated this for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u77	That was your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u78	I'm going to take Mr. Nicolaï to the law. Article 58p (1) deals with the provision of passenger transport services, where you can set rules. Suppose you do not have paragraph 2 and would refer to paragraph 1. I can imagine, I am not saying that I agree, but I would like to take part in the thought that Mr Nicolaï would say: listen, Air France or the SNCF in France offers a ticket to Amsterdam, but yes, they do so at Charles de Gaulle or at Gare du Nord, so sorry, Grapperhaus, you cannot make that criminal. That's right, but that's paragraph 1. But now paragraph 2: you can lay down rules on access to and use of passenger transport in the Netherlands. That's what we're talking about. We're not talking about offering. That is why I also said: it is about the transport of that train passenger; as soon as the train from Bad Bentheim crosses the Dutch border, you are in paragraph 2 in conjunction with paragraph 3 (a). I really want to say this to Mr Nicolaï: I am in favour of paragraph 3 (a); it is justified that we should translate it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u79	Will you stay a little close to the microphone, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u80	Yeah, excuse me. So I said to Mr Nicolaï: it is justified, paragraph 2 in conjunction with paragraph 3 (a), in conjunction with paragraph 3 (b), in other cases. By the way, we have now only made a ministerial arrangement for carriers. It would also be possible for travellers, but we consider it more proportionate to start with the carriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u81	Perhaps for the sake of clarity, for the Acts, for the history of law, whatever: should I understand the Minister in such a way that the struggle with the law, and therefore the criminality, does not occur when not checking for a negative PCR test, but when entering the Netherlands of travellers who are not controlled on a negative PCR test, with which the crime took place in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u82	Travelers who don't own it. This is an important point. One of you had a question about that, too. I still have an answer to that, about the checking and the like. The point is of course... Take for example the FlixBussen that enter the Netherlands. That is also what these requirements are for. This will therefore be checked by the enforcement services on a sample basis. When it comes to high-risk areas such as South Africa with such a firmer virus, every passenger is checked. We concluded that yesterday in the House of Representatives. But take, for example, FlixBussen from France. If there are ten, there will be random checks by the enforcers here. If it turns out that there are people who do not have a negative PCR test in their possession, this is a penalty for the carrier ten times, if there are ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u83	Just for clarity, because that was another very long answer: the forbidden behavior becomes the introduction into the Netherlands of people who do not have a negative PCR test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u84	That is paragraph 3 (a) (3) (b) concerning the people themselves, but we have now said: let us focus on the carriers. They'd like that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u85	In order to increase speed, I would like to ask another question which I would otherwise ask in the second term. It fits in with what my colleague De Boer says. Actually, it has not been discussed, but the captain on board of course has a very special role to play. He's an assistant officer, and he's also a civil servant. One of the matters under his responsibility is the refusal of persons on board who are under influence or who could pose a risk to passengers' safety. Would the commander in the construction we're discussing play a specific role? If the Minister doesn't have that ready immediately, I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u86	I will come back later to the question of how the carrier is going to test. A number of questions have been asked. If it's all right with you, I'll go into that further. That too is the common thread in the whole: that we say that the PCR test certificate must be there before anyone gets access or immediately at the time he enters Dutch territory. In the Lower House people have suggested a test at Schiphol. That has also been discussed here. But then someone is already out of the plane or, if you're talking about the station, from the train and he's already on Dutch territory and is already covered by the test declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u87	I bring it up because, in addition to the discussion we have just had on the hardness of the rule, it may still be possible for someone to play a role there under other powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u88	As an investigative officer, he could have that role. Let me take up the question of transporters' scrutiny, but first I have a few very small legal points. Mr Otten had asked whether we had accepted the point of the mandatory wording of the fourth paragraph. Yeah, that's what happened. Mr Janssen asked whether there would be more legislative changes in the context of uncertainty or the legal basis. We have noted that the judge has said at the moment that there is insufficient basis for this. At the moment we have no indication that this is the case on more points, but I understand very well that Mr Janssen is actually saying: be alert about it and be careful about it. I will say out loud that we are doing so just in case. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question of how the carrier is going to check or check. First of all, rail transport. At each departure station it is stated that a negative test result of up to 72 hours old is required to return to the Netherlands. That is the departure station, assuming that people would like to come back to the Netherlands at some point. Across the country, every traveler is asked, preferably already during the ticket check, whether he is in possession of a negative test result when it comes to transport this way. If the traveller does not have a PCR test, he is advised to leave the train at the next station because the passenger, once on Dutch territory, is in violation. We are still discussing with the railways to what extent you... It says "the next station" but that should of course preferably be "at the time of check-up." So that could be abroad as well. Once again, the railways are at risk of transporting someone who does not have the test. In the case of bus transport, the driver asks for the negative test report when boarding. If the passenger does not have a negative test result, the driver will refuse the passenger access. Air carriers check before boarding. After arriving at the Dutch airports, the KMar checks third-country nationals at the border and non-third-country nationals, i.e. Dutch, Germans and so on, are checked on a sample basis. When it comes to flights from South Africa at the moment, so from countries where there is an additional risk, there is full control. Let me turn to Mr Van Hattem's point about those transfer passengers. Passengers who remain seated do not have to submit test results. This applies only to passengers who get off in the meantime. And indeed, the persons who switch to another flight at a Dutch airport are of course transfer passengers, but they do move across the airport. In order to minimise the risk of contamination, a negative test report has been requested from passengers leaving the aircraft. If the whole flight is a transit flight, where all passengers remain on board, those passengers shall be excluded from it. Those situations are also present, because then there is only a stopover at Schiphol Airport to refuel, for example. The cabinet is prepared to consider whether there is any way of exception for these transfer passengers, but I would add something to that. I shall look at Mr Otten, who asked how it was done in other countries. The Netherlands is now going further than our neighbouring countries on this issue, because so far we have seen a lot of covid measures to invent or take a particular measure in one country and other countries to slow down. After all, it's all about keeping that virus small. So I want to promise that we are going to look at this, but here too, we really need to discuss what exactly is going to happen to others. I have also read De Telegraaf, but the tricky thing about that competitive point is that that virus is in its own managed planning economy, an economy that we have no idea about. In many respects, therefore, it is very difficult to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u89	Thank you for the Minister's commitment. Can this 'watching' also be done in consultation with the aviation sector itself and in particular with Airport Schiphol and KLM? In fact, they may see certain practical possibilities for resolving this. I am thinking of offering separate routings at the airport et cetera. Can we also see if we can solve it that way, so without having a very big impact on the level playing field of our airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u90	I just told you about the dilemmas. That is why I say honestly: we are not going to change the ministerial arrangement now. We just need to see if this could be isolated. That must be very much in logistics, so you can say that people don't come in at all, because they're on a secluded island at Schiphol. I have some biweekly consultations with Belgium and some of our neighbouring Länder and I also need to know what exactly is going to be done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u91	Anyway, thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. Just specify what's being checked with those airlines. That's: name, type of test, PCR PCR, negative rash and time decrease. I'll come back to the question of whether that 72 hours is too long. Furthermore, the logo characteristic of the institute or laboratory is checked. Those are basically, except of course... No, these are also the five points that should be used as a starting point for other types of transporter to check on. By the way, we discussed it yesterday in the House of Representatives, and I would also like to make this point actively about someone who is carrying out a fake test. There was, and that's painful enough, just in Switzerland a case with a young lady from the Netherlands. That person also commits falsehood in writing and can therefore be detained on that point alone. Mr Van Dijk expressed himself nicely when he said: why not a rougher approach to the travel advice? Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen is currently considering whether this travel advice could be a little bit more in the direction of an obligation. But we must realise, and this also applies to flight bans and the like, that part of the traffic is really necessary. The complicated thing is, who defines what is necessary? We also see this in the crucial professions, for example in childcare. We have made a whole list of such professions, but then you still see that people manage to qualify for that list somehow. But there's gonna be a letter next week. By the way, that is separate from this bill. Then I will return to Mr Nicolaï. That's just a matter of how can you make it all so viral?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u93	I'd like to come back to the falsehood of writing. I find it annoying that every time we have to start talking about people trying to find the mouse holes to escape the rules. I think we should send out a clear signal on that. My question to the Minister was next. The situation is now upon us. You mentioned an example. Are we really going to actively enforce that when we come across that? I can also imagine, for example, a quick right to falsehood in writing, in order to give a clear signal that this really cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u94	That will develop in the coming weeks. We have, of course, seen over the last few weeks that people... We have, I must say, I must say, announced on 23 December that this was going to happen for aircraft and that it would be introduced on 29 December. Then you would think that people generally have a lot of good opportunities to come to something. Yet there are people who are trying to get out of this. This will still be done in the form of interim proceedings, but we naturally take into account, in the context of enforcement, that people will also try. I mentioned that example in Switzerland to come up with falsified tests and other things. It simply needs to be maintained. That's very annoying, but that's got to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u95	I thank the Minister for his response to my question about the flight holidays. I also look forward to the letter that we can look forward to from his colleague. I also understand the difficulty: what is necessary or not? At the same time, it is almost an open door and we have closed the schools and there are still a number of very far-reaching measures. For the performance of a sun vacation, there is only one advice, which can indeed be done without delay. Does the Minister agree with me that this is not in balance with each other, and that we should really try to go a little closer to the wind when it comes to flight holidays that are not necessary, such as sun holidays?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u96	It's an urgent advice. Problem is, there's something lying there. What's the poet saying again? It is a matter of law and practical objections and so on, which so far do not allow a legal obligation for no one to go on the road, because that is what it is all about. It is really very complicated to arrange it as close as possible, but of course we want to do so as much as possible. Then I come back to what I said in the introduction: we have here a country where we attach great importance to our freedom rights and leave a great deal of leave, not only now, but in general, to our own responsibility. I have to tell you, I find it very worrying. If two tropic doctors are trapped in a country deep in Africa, then I think that's another assessment than if people there, knowing that we're going to make these demands, go on safari for two weeks. Mr President, before I become too moralistic, we have to go back to the law. Those positive tests...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u97	Still at this point, Mr. Nicolaï. Go ahead, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u98	Let me turn to the previous point. I understood from what the Minister said to Mr Van Dijk's question that it is very difficult to take measures to this end. But in France, at some point, you weren't allowed more than 100 kilometers from where you lived. I believe that other countries have similar rules. Why would it be so difficult to set such rules in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u99	Because France, as I have seen, has a somewhat different interpretation of certain constitutional rights in practice. That does not mean that we would have the same legal space in France, but it is taken differently, or filled in, if you like. We really need to realise that we have our own way of thinking about society. We should be a little proud of that, too. I've seen footage, you may have seen them, of how the guardia civil maintained in April-May and kicked people out when they walked down the street. We do not have that in the Netherlands, our police and boas are not like that. That's where it starts. We have a very different view of how we deal with each other in public space. That's kind of tricky, because then you get people who get a tantrum in the supermarket when they're addressed to not wearing a mouth cap. But we can't change that in one day. I cannot deny that it can be regulated more strictly in France on a number of points, because that is the way it is done. In other countries this is less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u100	I understand that the Minister is answering from the point of view of whether it is something he would feel for in the consideration. I understood from the Minister's reply that the powers in the legislation would not be there, but of course there are. That's one. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister if there is any research to show that the Dutch are not prepared, for example, to cooperate in limiting the distance at which you can move from your home if that could prevent the spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u101	That is the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority. This really is the minister who's the only one to talk about it. And I still think that we should be extremely cautious about this. A lot of people are asked in this but continuous lockdown where all kinds of things are not allowed, drive off your business if you have a non-essential shop or a catering company, go to the cinema or have your whole family visit at Christmas. These are considerations that we make with each other and we, at least me, and I feel the Dutch are reluctant to impose very many different rules strictly. I would like to say very clearly that I do not rule out the fact that we are in such a situation that we must also resort to these means, but we have not had to do so so so far, and let us not, as a country, praise ourselves as a cabinet, but the Netherlands with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u102	Let me take a look at neighbouring countries: Germany and also England. Germany has extended the lockdown for several weeks. I don't know what the Netherlands will do, we'll wait and see. One of the measures is that a limit of 15 kilometers is set: you can be up to 15 kilometers from your home address. That is a very serious measure. I hear the Minister now saying that he wants to stay very far away from that. But emergency breaks the law, or emergency calls for emergency measures. That's one. Second. We now also know that in London this morning the state of emergency was declared by a government, or at least the government supports the policy of mop-up in the autumn, with 'the weather' and 'the weather' and pubs that opened up again. We learn from that that if you are not very strict very early, then the blows are much greater and the measures become much more serious. But I hear the Minister making a bit of an argument here: our culture and mentality, which I, by the way, share, and that you must be very cautious. Of course, we also had the incidents in Haarlem. There is hardly any response to that. It goes on and on. It is also known that there is a free pass to get together with a thousand people somewhere under the name of a demonstration. We also saw it in The Hague, in Duindorp. It goes on and on. We need to be much stricter, otherwise we too will come up with unimagined measures. I do not hear the Minister saying that very well. He says not to rule it out, but he wants to stay away from it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u103	The Minister. Please respond in the context of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u104	This bill is pretty strict. This is already apparent from the fact that in the meantime, as we speak, there is a ruling in interim proceedings two and in interim proceedings three in an hour or so. That says something about how it's experienced by people. I did not say that we should not move towards stricter measures at any time. I did say that as a government, you must do justice to your country and your people. So that is something different from perhaps in a neighbouring country or a country that is a long way away. And let us be clear: in many Western European countries, things are similar. Finally, I am not saying that as an excuse, but we must do so together, including as a legislator, as a journey into the fog with a container ship through the Channel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u105	This is certainly in the context of this bill, because this is about people travelling abroad. If they come back, there will be restrictions. As I said in my speech, as the Prime Minister has said on a regular basis, apart from the 1.5 metres, stay home. With that "stay at home" you also shouldn't go on a flight or on vacation. It's all gonna happen. What do you really think of what has been decided in Germany, namely that you can only move up to 15 kilometres? I can hear the Minister saying a little bit that he thinks that goes a long way. That is the extraordinary decision, and that is only the Minister's concern. Can he consider that because it reduces the risk of infection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u106	Really, still a lot of interests play in the moment you do. Of course, that virus is a very important one. It is not the case that in countries that were very strict and then went back by definition did not go well or vice versa. Let us be very clear: all Western European countries and many other countries in the world are struggling with this virus. I would remind Mr Van Rooijen that in April everyone shouted: Sweden is doing great. Well, a few months later, that was the other way around. Belgium and the Netherlands have constantly exchanged a kind of penny. So I need to talk to my colleague very carefully. If I leave the non-essential shops open and she closes them, the people come in flows from Antwerp to Breda, Rotterdam and I know a lot about them. We have now reversed it. Initially the people went back into flows to Antwerp and Brussels. Those are all things. I understand the point. I think that with the very far-reaching restriction of freedoms, we really need to look again and again at what all this means. I also really think that what we gave people at Christmas as an urgent advice because we are not coming behind the front door has asked a lot of people. There will always be people who, because of their low involvement in what is happening in society, say: and I am going to the departure hall of Schiphol, because I am going to Ibiza. Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u107	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u108	The Minister also mentioned Belgium. Belgium is a good example. In Belgium things were very bad and there, for example, in the area around Antwerp, where it exploded, there was an evening time restriction. Belgium is now much and much lower than the Netherlands. We must also take this Belgian situation with us. I also read the Belgian media and they are surprised, for example, that the Netherlands took so long before the mouth cap was actually made mandatory. In Belgium they all walk on the street with a mouth cap and we do not, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u109	Now there are two historical inaccuracies. First of all as regards the closing of Antwerp: that curfew, because that was it. It could be. I am not against that at all, although it has been suggested by a journalist who has never spoken to me about it. That was in July, August. Yeah, that was July, August. I'd like another one... I don't think I'm allowed to make any bets here. Anyway, that was then. After that, some time after they lifted that, things went up really, really high. Apparently, for whatever reason, that was not a lasting success. Yesterday I also corrected a member of the House of Representatives with good intentions. There I said that the OMT said until mid-July: nothing no mouth caps. Everyone knows that. And the cabinet has always said: we must be consistent and follow that advice. But let's face it: the Belgians had a duty to protect their mouth at that time. I was in Antwerp for a day in the middle of July. And I have to tell you, Chairman, that you could count the people who really wore the mouth cap on the fingercuff of one finger. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Minister. I suggest we return to the bill. Mr Otten is now going to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u111	The minister just said, if you don't practice hockey, you can't say anything about it. I thought that was a rather far-reaching restriction on freedom of speech. But I can't help thinking about that American hockey legend Wayne Gretzky who said, "You have to look where the puck is going, not where he's been." I am now getting a historical overview of what has happened, including enforcement policy. Well, at that point this summer, there has been a lot of trouble with the Minister; I will not fall back on that, I will not rub too much into the wound. But I'm still missing an answer to a question I asked in the first term. It was about the general picture of the deterioration of the quality of legislation. Shouldn't there be a quality impulse from the Justice Department with better law-making lawyers? Because we see this in many ways. At the nitrogen, we can see it. At the Ministry of Education, we recently saw it with a merger test. That law was not good either, and we voted against it. We see it in more and more ways. How is the Minister of Justice going to improve the quality of the legislation, where I also support the emergency law? How will the Minister deal with this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u112	The Minister. I would like to hear an answer in the context of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u113	Yes, I wanted to say something nice about sports, but I really do go into Mr Otten's final part. I think it is quite wrong to blame the legislative lawyers. I think we have excellent legislative lawyers. I have been able to work very closely with it for the last three years. I am also talking about people from other ministries. If, at some point in politics, things do not go as they were socially desired afterwards, let me put it this way, then you must first look at how that process could have happened. I would just like to say it very loudly: those who have had to chronique it by order of politics are the legislative lawyers, as far as I am concerned, those who are the last to be blamed. So I'm taking a very powerful distance from this. I'm more of a football player, by the way, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. As a 9-year-old boy, I got an autograph from the guy who said if you don't shoot, you can never score. Of course, that's something that plays here with that virus: you'll have to do things now and then. After the world-famous semi-finals against Italy during the European Championships 2000, this great idol of mine also said: they can't win over you, you can lose to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u115	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following through you, Mr Otten. It has nothing to do with sport, Mr President, but this is really a crucial point. I say by heart that 1982 was the year when the Congress of the Conservatives was bombed by the IRA. When journalists told the IRA that they had missed because Thatcher had survived, of course anonymously, the IRA commented: "She has been lucky this time. She needs to be lucky always. We only need to be lucky once." That's really something we need to realize with this virus. We can try anything. And indeed, there will be some things that the evaluation will soon reveal: well, Minister, you could have done otherwise, or I do not know what. But the virus always has a price somewhere. Mr President, I will stop philosophizing and continue with the questions. Mr Janssen rightly says: look at scenarios that are not obvious. I think that is an important and rightful point. We are, and we must continue to care. I therefore consider this to be an incentive. A typical example is that the ECDC has said: you should not do that with those negative tests. We finally said as a cabinet: we are going to do that. Like some countries around us, which I can call. It is not yet viral, but at least it is a measure that works in a number of countries. I'll just mention them. Belgium has required a negative test: PCR, 72 hours before departure. Denmark: yes, test not specified, 72 hours before departure. Germany: yes, PCR, 48 hours before arrival. France: only for outside the EU, but 72 hours before departure. Italy: yes, 48 hours before arrival. Norway: 72 hours before arrival. Spain: 72 hours before arrival. We are in a western European quite good company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u116	At the beginning of my speech, this appeal was more general. I have made a comparison for myself, as is always the case with finance, with conversion lists. Without a political preference, without a prior choice of "this is not what the minister or the cabinet wants" or "this may be what the cabinet wants," it is said very sec: there is. Just as a list was already made in 2008 whether it might be good to legalize soft drugs. Then there will probably be more on the shelf and then there may be fewer surprises, I say just from my own administrative practice, because it also has to be clearly stated again and again in the organisation: I want to know everything. That the Minister says: I want to know all the possibilities, regardless of whether I have been very much against them in the past and have spoken out against them, in order to be able to make that choice myself. That was my more general appeal, because it seems to be missing from time to time, given the many surprises that continue to occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u117	I'll take that, too. I'd like to give you another thought, Mr. Janssen. That's what I said at the beginning. Nothing like this pandemic has ever seen anyone before. The people I spoke to said: yes, but I have never experienced this either. I'm talking about experts of all kinds. We have practiced a great deal in crisis situations, at least since I was Minister. Then I was put back in a room, in one of those rooms, and then I had to pretend there was a lot of calamity. Something like this, I admit, which has been with us for nine months, has never played in those exercises. But I do agree with Mr Janssen. Your empathy about what might be, must be limitless. That's what you learn from this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u118	Just a little more time. In this intensity, we've never known this before. That is what I said in the debate in October. But I have pointed out a number of times, again today, for example, the evaluation of the Mexican flu at the time, by Deloitte and Crisislab. All the topics, including the topic we are discussing today, how do you avoid spreading to the Netherlands? At that time, all the issues were raised. I also mentioned them in October. We have said that it may not have been discussed here, because it has turned out well, but you have to do something with it. The debate in October also showed that something high and general had happened on top of it. One of the lessons of the OVV is always: the moment the crisis is over or seems to be over, attention is weakening and the priority is also at once quite elsewhere. Therefore, they also check after completion whether the recommendations are being followed. That's my call, too. Keep looking at that and look what has happened in the past, for example with this research. What else can we learn from that so we don't have to make it up again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u119	I think that is a valid point, but I have said it three times now. By the way, the Mexican flu reminds me as a citizen of that time that we had bought something of 100 million vaccines and that I slammed the newspaper shut and told my wife: have they gone completely mad? So, yeah, that's not always the way things are... you know? That's sometimes... well. Mr. Chairman. I have said the necessary things about travel policy in other countries. Know that we are constantly communicating with a number of countries on this issue to see how we can coordinate it as best we can. An important point that Mrs De Boer was the first to come up with is that 72-hour deadline. I am not going to dwell on it for long, because a motion has been tabled in the House of Representatives, given by me, Chamber of Appeal, to see if we can shorten or differentiate the time limit. The advice of 72 hours after a PCR test comes from the OMT, but we are still talking about this, because that period must of course be as short as possible. Let's make that very clear. It has also been asked for any other tests as proof that a traveller is not contagious. Of course, that's what's being looked at. As far as the vaccine is concerned, it is not yet clear whether or not vaccinated individuals can continue to spread the corona virus. In the coming weeks, months will have to show whether a vaccination certificate could help in this. Mr Janssen asked about travelling children under 13. They're exempt. At present there is no test obligation for the interior, but sometimes it is advised urgently. In the current scheme, therefore, it has been decided not to include a test obligation for children from abroad. But they can be tested voluntarily before leaving. Quick tests aren't exactly appropriate. The OMT said it should be a negative result of the PCR test. Those are the most sensitive tests and they are therefore also most suitable for people without complaints; because that is what this is about, of course. Because when it comes to someone who sniffs into the tube of the plane, you can imagine something else, but of course it's about getting everyone out, including the people without complaints. That's what the PCR tests are best at. I repeat my willingness, as expressed yesterday, to look also at the LAMP speed test. The OMT says it wants to see if it could still be used. I have already said what is necessary about the fraud with the test declaration. When does a negative test result become mandatory for drivers? That's tricky, but we'll check it out. Then I come back to the point of virus density or making it virus-proof. Given the number of border crossings that the Netherlands has, it is really impossible at the moment to systematically check all car traffic. We are therefore looking at ways of making any effort to do so. But we didn't think it was appropriate to include that in this emergency legislation. Of course, the means of transport involved, especially air transport, are generally transported to destinations where people will not say so quickly: I will take the car or something like that. There is the possibility of a regulation for the traveller, but we would like to start by thinking about how to dress that up, because that is where it plays a lot more on the individual and so we have to make all kinds of proportionality and other considerations. Then improve the quarantine compliance. At the moment, 50% of the people who receive the urgent advice to go into quarantine are also quarantined. We have noted that the imposition of quarantine procedures, apart from the question of whether this is politically feasible, leads to a great deal of troublesome side-effects. A number of things are being done to promote it. There's a VWS Quarantine Guide that totally guides people and helps them when they follow the advice to go into quarantine. Furthermore, a practical trial of the Quarantine Travel Check is now being started. This is an online tool that supports incoming travellers. Of course, the individuals who do not go into quarantine voluntarily have different reasons for doing so. We need to realize that too. There are people who, if you create these kinds of tools for them, dare and want to do it, but there are also people who, for reasons of principle, do not want to do it. However, we must look above all at the people who, in principle, have that willingness but who do not dare or do not know how to do it. Then we have to hope that we can get that percentage up. On South Africa, I think there was a question from Mrs De Boer. A motion to that effect has been given by my judge Chamber. At the next co-vid debate, we will come up with a proposal on how you might still be able to work with a total ban on entry. South Africa should then be an example of the kind of countries where there is a greater variation. We must then simply give freight transport a separate arrangement, because that is not so much the issue. But my colleague will come back to that next week as a result of this Parliamentary motion. Then there is Mr Janssen's question as to whether other possibilities have been investigated, such as registration and quarantine in Germany. We are really looking at this, also in contact at the official and political level: what are you doing and what are we doing? That's just how we look at each other's best practices. But Germany has a much tighter regulation in terms of registration, quarantine and everything around it. I didn't know that, but maybe I could have guessed that. I don't mean something like "we can arrange that too." I mean that there is a constitutional change there; let me put it this way. But we certainly look very closely at what others do, whether we can play loan neighbor and whether we can transfer something that someone else applies, possibly here. That is what Mr Janssen was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u120	Do I understand that the Minister in South Africa spoke about a flight ban or about any other means of restricting transport from South Africa? If so, yesterday he was asked whether he could do so on the basis of this legal basis and he did not have the answer yesterday. Maybe he does now. I ask this because, if this legislation is the basis for doing so, we have done so right away. I would like to avoid the need for an emergency meeting again in order, if necessary, to settle this if it gets any closer than we think it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u121	No, there are already regulations that would make such a flight ban possible. I'll literally track it down for you for the second term. There is no need to do anything about this in the legislation. I paraphrased yesterday in the Lower House from the explanatory statement that a certain form of an entry ban is de facto to be regarded as a flight ban. It is possible to regulate the right of flight bans, but on the basis of regulations covered by IenW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u122	Based on aviation regulations, I suspect. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u123	Yes. I have some questions to answer about paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u124	I have another interruption from Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u125	I shall go back to the German model, which was actually mentioned by the Minister before. You say that Germany records much more and much better. Shouldn't we be allowed to do that in the Netherlands? You must also register in advance in Germany. You'll be known to the health authorities. At the moment you go into quarantine, you can expect control and you can possibly be obliged to do a test. The latter may go too far, but it is a different, less radical model, because you can just go to your own house. The minister was talking about a quarantine obligation about all sorts of side-effects. Quite apart from the question of whether that is a Dutch word, my question is what are the side consequences if you go to a quarantine obligation. I do not question whether this is politically desirable or feasible; let us put that aside. If that English variant spreads so hugely that we have to do something, like Germany, which has 15 kilometres around hotspots, not all over Germany, but around hotspots, could we at least see how such a quarantine obligation could work if we actually get into a situation where need might not break laws but makes laws to ensure that we can achieve such a quarantine obligation to prevent it from flooding our entire country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u126	One of the aspects is the enforcement aspect, which is closest to me. Now, in exceptional situations, the president of a security region can impose a mandatory quarantine on the prosecutor's proposal, for example because someone has the virus and does not comply with certain rules. Then it is said that you must be at home now. The moment you start pushing whole cohorts into quarantine, you have to maintain them regularly to make that work. Then you need boas. It's a shame to use the police to do that. But those boas also have a lot of work to do in this crisis. So that's a tricky trade-off. And this is just the point of enforcement. There are also other considerations that lie more in the domains of others. It will be a politically difficult discussion whether we can impose a ten-day quarantine obligation on people, because that is quite a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u127	In Germany they do five days after a test and then you get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u128	This can be addressed as an urgent opinion. By the way, I also hear from my German colleague that there are problems here and there and that people go to the supermarket with a mouth cap during the quarantine. But of course that's not the idea of quarantine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u129	Mr. Janssen, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u130	No, that's clear. But I hear the Minister say that it could work, regardless of the political desirability, but that it does raise an enforcement problem. So it is actually a monitoring and capacity problem. I'll come back to that with the train and bus passengers. In principle, it should be something that you should consider and which might work very well, only we get in the trouble with supervision and enforcement, because there has to be a certain chance if you don't stick to it, because otherwise it doesn't work. So far, however, I believe that there has been a great many calls for responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u131	Yes, but a claim to self-responsibility has a 50% score. Let's be very honest about that. That's what we're trying to get up with all those quarantine guides; I've spared you the quarantine coaches, Mr. President. You should see it a little bit like those kids in the movie St. Elmo's Fire who have detention. Then a teacher loses a few hours to that too. If you want to do a quarantine right, then of course you have to make sure someone doesn't get out of that quarantine. But I don't think we can get through your parliament to put people on an anklet or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u132	We're drifting away from the bill again, Mr. Janssen, and you've already asked three questions. One short final question, perhaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u133	Very briefly. Apart from the political weighting, the situation can become very serious. You don't have to check the first half of it anymore. That's gonna be okay. But there can be hotspots where the English variant breaks out hugely. That must be something you're thinking about. You need to know what to take care of when the need comes. If you don't think of that until the moment it's going on, you're too late as far as I'm concerned. That's what I've been trying to ask you all along: think in these kinds of scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u134	It is right that Mr Janssen should say so. Then he also finds that we are actually thinking about this and then finding that something like a quarantine obligation is not the biggest win. Then I will actually return to Mr Van Rooijen. Then I say that you may still have to take certain measures to restrict freedom of movement. Again, I'm not saying that we want that or that it's ideal, but you have to think about all these things and then it's a maybe more ideal than the other. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to paragraph 5, on distressing cases. The question is, how do we deal with that? That will really depend on the circumstances of the case. I said yesterday in the House of Representatives that, of course, it will also play a part in this, or someone who claims that he cannot do a test, possibly in the circumstances in which he or she sits, would indicate that he or she is willing to do other things. Suppose it's someone who has to go to his father's funeral very urgently from a faraway country, then you can't be held up in the country where you are like that Argentina I haven't said much about this, but there were questions about that. It is true that assistance and help can be offered from the State Department to people who find themselves in such a situation. This was also mentioned in the pleading. If someone says that he does not succeed in carrying out such a test, it is in the first place: how can we help you with that? This also applies when someone says that it really does not work and that the situation is really urgent or if there is a calamity on the ground that leads to people wanting to leave. I mentioned that last example in the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. I still have a subject standing here. We have therefore signed up to the BUPO Convention, which states that no one should be kept at random from their own country. That is the case law of the UN Human Rights Committee. So that's also a little bit more about people who just have their permanent existence here. Mr. Chairman. It has also been asked whether we should not define it more strictly. Well, we should not do that in the light of the exception to which Mr Van Rooijen asked me to reflect further, from the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and Article 3, Fourth Protocol. We really should leave this room. If you are going to define it in the law and call it who in the law, then there is always the risk that someone who is in a very serious situation is just outside that definition. That is why it has been formulated. I believe it was Mr Nicolaï who asked whether a shortage of PCR capacity was a reason to call on the fifth paragraph. That may be the case under circumstances. That will indeed depend on what is actually possible further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u135	I actually had two very essential questions about that fifth paragraph. One has not yet been addressed by the Minister. That legal provision now states that "those who do not have a test result'. This can be interpreted as: which in fact do not have a test result. On the basis of the examples mentioned by the Minister himself, I have said: it seems that you should read it differently, namely as 'not reasonably available'. I have suggested to the Minister a wording on which I say that it should have been included. It's not in there right now. Is the Minister prepared to take over that wording, which I shall, if necessary, put to the vote? I haven't gotten the answer to that question yet. The second one's next. I hear the Minister say: the carrier must test that. You have to imagine that. If my daughter takes the train in Paris and says, "I couldn't take the test so quickly; I appeal to the fifth member," should she discuss it with the conductor there on the platform? And if she loses that discussion, how does it work? I think that if you regulate the right of return properly, someone who invokes this exception should always have the right to return to the Netherlands and then face the request to explain it at the border. That will have to be done by the authorities. I did not actually receive an answer from the Minister either. These are two essential questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u136	No, it's really "can," not "will." It doesn't target people with ethical objections or beliefs who say that they shouldn't submit a negative PCR test of their faith or even do that test. It's really about not being able to do it. Anyone who does not want to do a test for reasons of principle will have to consider how it will return to the Netherlands in a different way, but at least not through that carrier. Then I'm gonna get to that transporter. I thought I was there... I'm sorry if that hasn't been clear. At some point I quoted the example of the train inspector, who finds that someone does not have a PCR test. Then it is the responsibility of the carrier, when it comes to an Article 3a situation, that is the case now, because that is where the regulation on...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u137	The Minister doesn't really answer my question. The person concerned shall submit to the carrier that that provision which you are referring to does not apply to him. In doing so, he shall refer to the fifth paragraph. Normally you can imagine that you need a permit, an exemption or whatever, but in this case it's all urgent. Someone needs to get back as soon as possible and is standing there with the transporter. The minister says the transporter should check it out. Alla, but he must also check that the fifth paragraph applies, because if the fifth paragraph applies, that obligation does not apply. That's where the pain is. Is this discussion supposed to take place at the gate? Should it take place on the platform? Or should we note, in the light of the fundamental law of the Treaties which the Dutch have to return to their country of residence, that the person concerned should be admitted when such a situation occurs and that it should be established at the border, at the time of entry, whether he is wrongly moving to the Netherlands? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u138	You repeat the question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u139	I answer that question on the basis of two cases. The first is that someone is in a country with an extremely primitive or poor infrastructure, no matter how bad it is. He doesn't succeed in getting a test possibility there. He also shows this with conviction to the carrier concerned. It seems to me that in such a situation, especially if you can also indicate that you really cannot wait until, for example, there is a few days later, you have met the failure. Someone at Gare du Nord in Paris who's called the "Gare du Nord" what's the name of that thing? Thalys enters, the conductor asks if he has a negative PCR and then says, "No, I don't have one. You know, that's too bad. I forgot, but I have to go home now... Then it's the responsibility of the carrier to say, "Look, you're in France. You can pass that test here." It may also be that the carrier says: 'You can come with me to the Dutch border and then you have to leave, otherwise I will be fined as a carrier'. That's how it's settled now. I think that answers the questions very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u140	Mr Nicolaï, third, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u141	I am talking about an example which, according to the Minister, would be a reason to be free from that test. Those who come to the conductor or to the gate are told: you rely on it and you also say that you know from Mr.Grapperhaus that the condition is that you comply with it, but I will not allow you to do so. That is the point. Can the right of return to your own country be restricted by a private person who denies you access to the means of transport on behalf of a carrier, in a situation where the Minister says that the person concerned was right; that obligation did not apply to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u142	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u143	Well, I won't be the one to make that judgment. The standard template is that the Minister of Justice does not deal with individual matters. But let us be clear: I have pointed out the possibility of consular assistance. It is also explicitly mentioned in the pleading. Those who feel inadequate can always appeal to it and say: I am not allowed, but I actually find..., etc. Then it is still the decision of the carrier. That's very clear. But when it comes to people who are in Europe, especially in Western Europe, I cannot see that there will be a lot of discussion about that 'can't'. If someone is standing on Charles de Gaulle at Gare du Nord or for my part, there really must be the fact that they can prove that a very dear relative is buried the next day in order to say: I have an emergency. In the middle of nowhere, maybe there's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u144	I have a question at the same point, but the approach is something else. I think it's an important principle that you can enter your own country. There are exceptions to this. I agree with Mr Nicolaï that it is uncomfortable that we should leave it to carriers to interpret it, but that is what is in the law we are discussing. But the carrier will initially not think of an exception and will say: you simply have such a negative test to submit; if not, you will not go. That is why I asked for my term: will someone from the Dutch government keep track of how carriers deal with this? When do they say it's okay? Thus there can be a certain equality, where the KLM acts about the same as the Thalys. We can also see whether some carriers simply say njet, because that eliminates all the risk for them. The traveler can then go to the consulate, but yes, in the meantime that funeral has been. At least I want a little justice, and you do it by keeping track.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u145	Well, I would like to assure Mr Recourt that we will speak again with the carriers to encourage them to respect the same degree of restraint relatively. That's what I'm talking about. If a train departs from Gare du Nord or a Charles de Gaulle plane, it will be very close together, but "relatively the same degree of restraint" is for an airplane departing from Zaire, of course somewhat different than for a FlixBus leaving Berlin. However, I would like to assure you that we will bring this to the attention of the carriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u146	Thank you for that. Can you also reconnect that? 'Cause that can't be more than casual. It is a question of making it somewhat right, because there is no judicial procedure for those who are refused, which is also unfortunate. Can I understand that the case is being shot in the face and that the Minister at some point reconnects what arrangement has been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u147	Well, I don't think that's what I'm gonna do, because I would give that exception much more latitude and meaning than she does. In reply to Mr Nicolaï's question, I said that conscientious objectors or those who are objecting in principle are caught if they invoke that exception, to name but one example. I've also described a few cases, but I'm not going to repeat it all. I really think it should be very exceptional cases. So we should not want to develop a kind of policy on this now, because that will generate expectations and then we need a policy framework and an explanation of the policy framework. We're not gonna do that. However, I agree that I will draw attention to the need for carriers to try to exercise the same degree of restraint relatively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u148	Recourt, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u149	Yeah, last one. I get it. It's a hardness clause. It's about unforeseen circumstances, so we can't shut that down right now. That shouldn't be boarded up either. I am glad that the Minister is calling attention to it, but I think that it is impossible without the carriers keeping each other informed about the cases they have. Otherwise it is a bit in the air: do you want to take it into account, period. Even so, one carrier can do a and the other carrier b.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u150	Again, if I'm really gonna let that go backwards, we're gonna develop some kind of policy framework and then it's gonna be... Those companies have asked: give us here it comes again as waterproof as possible on this point. We have done so and there must be a single case-like exception to that. That's how we're supposed to keep it. I repeat the commitment I made, and that is to say again to the airlines: remember, try to look at each other in your reluctant application of that article.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u151	This is also a bit in line with my first-term question on the clamps that you can get with the visas. I have to go back on a case of this kind. This is not about visas, but it is about the fact that there are already problems with Dutch people who are stranded abroad because of the lack of clarity among transport companies about how these measures should be applied. I have an article from De Telegraaf dated 1 January last about Dutch people who were in Madeira because of a necessary journey. So we are not talking about a country in the middle of nowhere, let us say, but about a part of the European Union. That article said that people were sent from the locker to the wall. "Transavia does not want to help us and refers to the government. It refers to the marechaussee and back to the airline." Transavia himself said: "We do not impose restrictions. We're not going over it and we're not going over it. Testing is a passenger's own responsibility and without negative results they do not come on board." So you do get discussion at the gate and "constraint" is also a very vague concept. So how is a hardness clause to be understood by these companies? Or perhaps a little more clarity could be provided? If this is to be decided on the spot, there will soon be a lot of people with a mouth full of teeth, who are also sent from the cabinet to the wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u152	Then I go back to the debate with Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Janssen and Mr Van Dijk on the ruggedness of the travel advice. Can't we just say with the fist on the table "people, there's just no more traveling"? We have an urgent advice: don't go! Then there are people who say, "And I'm going anyway." Then we say, well, okay, that's then... A number of you have called me very hard and intriguingly that I am so in it. Then I say: well, that's part of our society. I have given an urgent opinion, and if you do not follow it, you will not follow it. But now those people go there and we'll say: remember, if you come back, you must have a negative PCR test, because we really want to prevent... We also have a serious interest in this. You know that in advance, respectively: you know it well in advance. You can also have people who live in Mexico and want to visit their families in the Netherlands and so on. Well, you know it well in advance and you also know there's a good reason for it. Then we have a lot of countries in the world where the possibilities of obtaining those PCR tests are now well present. You will have to register in one country rather than another, because one country has a longer waiting period than the other. Then I must say that there is a very good, balanced and proportional balance in the whole. It is really justified in the light of the BUPO Convention and the ECHR to say: then you must take care of it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u153	I still find it somewhat unclear by how the Minister explains it. It is not my intention to say that people should travel abroad etc. et cetera et cetera. The point is that if people are for necessary reasons... It was a necessary journey, according to this article, and that is what I am assuming. As a foreigner in Madeira, they couldn't get a test. It was simply said that there were only tests available for the own population and that they were not made available to foreign travellers. That can be a factor that just prevents people from getting a test. If Transavia or any other company then says "sorry, but you are not on board," then who should determine what the ground is for a hardness clause? The Minister now says we're reluctant to deal with it, that's it. Whoever is at the gate actually doesn't have a leg to stand on, so it's good to get some clarity on that, otherwise there will be much longer discussions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u154	Those who are at the gate without a negative PCR test must realize that the chances that they are on board are very low, and that this will only happen if there is a distressing situation, as some of you have said, an emergency situation or something near an emergency. It's really impossible to get a test like this on the spot without an entire desert and I know a lot about crossing it. That means that all these people will have to find out in incredible cases: yes, that is not possible. Look, let me just say this. If there are organisers who still allow travel to certain holiday destinations, while it turns out that those holiday destinations do not have enough test capacity, then I think: yes, that might have been part of the package holiday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u155	Mr. Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u156	Finally. Again, I am not concerned about package holidays, but about necessary trips and people who cannot pass a test because of force majeure. I really do not want to make it unnecessarily difficult to implement this regulation, but rather to create clarity. How is it then arranged for the situation in which people really have the need to go abroad? I refer to a dying family member et cetera as an example and, for example, can't get a test through local measures, but the transport company then says: you really can't travel back to the Netherlands? For it is simply a matter of clarity, not of saying: yes, package travel is offered and so on. I do not think that is the decisive point in this situation. Now it's about the situation when people really get in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u157	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u158	But I have already said twice and I would like to emphasise that there is always the possibility of applying for consular assistance on the ground. Then there may be people among you who say 'well, but that takes a few hours', or I don't know what, but that indicates that it is highly exceptional. I would like to impress everyone on the heart: make sure you have a negative PCR, because only in very few cases can you show that it could not be done at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u159	Before I give the floor to Mr Frentrop, let me see if it is true that you have two other subjects, Mr Janssen's motion and the reactive hockey puck?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u160	Yes, on Mr Janssen's motion I would like to say a few words. I can be brief about that point of hockey, because I don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u161	So you don't think you need a lot of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u162	No, they say I'll be out in an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u163	Well, look, that's encouraging. Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u164	I have only one question, because we are here to look at the quality of legislation. If I understand the Minister correctly, the original bill did not guarantee a basic right, from the return of the Dutch to his homeland. The Council of State has pointed this out. The government has made the exception for distressing cases. I agree with Mr Nicolaï. Those who now assess whether there is a poignant case, i.e. whether the basic right can be met, will become Transavia or which carrier. I don't think that's part of a high-quality law. I don't think such a thing can be accepted, so I wanted to tell the Minister that that would be a reason for Forum for Democracy to vote against the law, if this...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u165	That sounds more like a second term, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u166	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u167	You're about to get a second deadline for such a conclusion. The interruption is for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u168	I would consider that to the Minister. If he appreciates our support, is he willing to change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u169	The Minister may be brief, but this is really more for the second term, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u170	Yes, a question is being asked, but it is something in which people are extremely reluctant. I would also like to answer that to Mr Frentrop. We have made it very clear that this should be dealt with as early as possible. So if a passenger is at a gate, it's actually a bit unhappy. I have discussed in detail in the House of Representatives the fact that airlines have actually said that they will take this into account in the digital and paper information they give passengers. You know: if you go back, you will receive the message one day in advance that you can choose your seat. When I pick, there's usually only one emergency seat left, but that doesn't matter. This information includes that the airline points out: remember, we told you when you ordered your ticket and when you flew out that you had to have that PCR test. That means the carrier will also check if that test is available. And if someone who doesn't have, in a very exceptional case, initially on behalf of the carrier, says: well, we'll take you anyway, because we see that you have a convincing story, so why not. But in very few cases that will be the case. If we don't do this, if we break down that door a little bit bigger, the virus is gonna be less good. Mr Nicolaï rightly pointed out that the government has no jurisdiction over Gare du Nord or Charles de Gaulle. If we're gonna do it here, for example, at Schiphol Airport, someone's already inside. Then we find ourselves in a situation where all we can do is give advice on quarantine and the like. So it's not meant to saddle the transport companies with this. On the contrary. They actually say they can get out of here with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u171	If the traveller is already back, the basic right to return is no longer at stake. Then the government can still carry out tests to ensure public health. But this cannot be the argument to say: then I will let a carrier test it abroad before the Dutch citizen returns under the jurisdiction of the Dutch State as a national.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u172	No, but yes. Hence the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State has deliberately said that you may restrict the right of return in this way. So that's how we do it. For the purposes of combating the virus, I would like to return to another point raised by Mr Nicolaï, who says that this is much more preferable to a situation in which the person in question landed at Schiphol Airport, came out of the trunk, saying that he could not have gotten the test but that he did not have a good reason to do so. 'Cause what can we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u173	I propose that we conclude this point and, if necessary, raise questions in the second period. For the planning, if we should order dinners, I just want to know how much longer you think you need, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u174	I only have Mr Janssen's point to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u175	Fine. Mr. Nicolaï, do you have another question on another point? I'll give you a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u176	Yes, in addition to the Minister saying that the Council of State would have said so. No, the Council of State didn't say that at all. The Council of State has said that there is something missing and that we need to add something. That's one. Then the second. Read it very carefully: a Dutchman who is abroad and who "for whatever reason" cannot have the required test declaration. That is very broad. And I don't think that's just a phrase. Because the right to return is simply guaranteed by treaty. I agree with Mr Frentrop that in such a situation the person concerned is in the Netherlands. I hear the Minister say: then we are in the Netherlands with that person. So the goal is actually: keep it out of the Netherlands and solve it abroad. So that's what the conductor and the stewardess have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u177	I suggest that we let the Minister answer this question, let him finish his term and then see how many interruptions there are. Because then I need to know if I should order dinners or not. Agreed? The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u178	I would like to refer very briefly to what the Council of State says on pages 2 and 3 of its opinion. It is quite clear that the Council of State says: listen, it is not an absolute right. They do say that the conditions must not be such that the law cannot be effectively exercised under any circumstances. That is why we have said: then we put that "can" in the law. I understand Mr Frentrop's point, but we just have to realize that it is complicated that if someone without that negative PCR test comes out of that trunk, the virus risk is no longer manageable. I do understand Mr Frentrop's point, and I think that is what I want to say here: wherever we are going to look at car traffic, we need to look further at how we can organise this ministerial arrangement as intelligently as possible in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u179	Finish your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u180	Yes. Let me turn to Mr Janssen's point. I regret the fact that this motion has not yet produced a result. There is, if I may put it this way, a certain degree of priest's dilemma, because that will be known to your Chamber. At least we're looking at how we can solve that. I would, however, like to assure you that we will be returning to your Chamber in writing this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u181	Are you at the end of your speech, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u182	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u183	Then Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u184	Can the Minister reply to the only real specific question that had asked, namely whether he can give the undertaking given the hardness clause and the adopted Van Otterloo/Paternotte motion, that in case you cannot be tested abroad and you urgently, in a distressing case, have to go back to the Netherlands at Schiphol and at other arrivals that will have rapid testing capacity. Can the Minister also promise that if the law enters into force this weekend, that fast test capacity will be there on Monday at Schiphol Airport and elsewhere? Otherwise, the thrust of the motion adopted will have no meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u185	I must confess that I have to come back to this in the second term, because I do not know what the text of the motion is. Mr Van Rooijen and I have known each other for a long time. We know that together we should not raise expectations that we cannot live up to. So I'll come back to that in the second term, if that's okay with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u186	Then Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u187	I still have to correct the Minister on the motion. He's talking about a priest's dilemma, because the House of Representatives has decided to do exactly the opposite. No. The House of Representatives voted away two amendments on a weighted back. The motion here has said'make it possible' and the Minister of VWS has promised to go and see what modalities that could be done. The Minister said that the House of Representatives voted differently than here. That was only about the possibility of a weighted front and not about other modalities. I like purity on that point. I must say, however, that at the end of the month, when we are three and a half weeks ahead, we are at fourteen weeks, on three and a half months, with one and a half weeks before the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u188	I do not hear a question, but I take the criticism to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u189	Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to one aspect of this hardness clause. The Minister dealt with some poignant cases, funerals in particular, which allow for the application of that hardness clause. If I am not mistaken, the Minister was only talking about Dutch. The distressing cases you mention can they also apply to a non-Dutch citizen? Does that include him? What about the hardness clause for a non-Dutchman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u191	There isn't one. Mr Frentrop and Mr Nicolaï have quite rightly questioned me about this right of return. We have already grasped the concept of "own country" and not the concept of "national." That's already a broader definition. There are also people who really do exist here without being directly nationals or who have very close ties here. But a Dane who wants to go to the Netherlands and who doesn't have a negative PCR test, we don't let him in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u192	I get it, and I had a little bit of faith in this answer. Nevertheless, I ask the question: does the Minister think that this is desirable? Or "human," I'd almost say. Harrowing cases have just been mentioned, for example a loved one who needs to be buried. This is also possible for a non-Dutch. Isn't it very rigid to really rule that out in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u193	Then I come back to all sorts of reflections about that horrible virus. I think that, weighing everything, we really need to draw that line. And I think that we are already making a very strict rule for Dutch or nationals, who have that right to return, by saying to them: well, no, unless you have a PCR test, or you can't get it all. I am sorry for all those Swedes, Danes, Russians and so on, but they will not get in without a negative PCR test on these means of transport, if the transport company does its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u194	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I did not interrupt on this point, but I would like to make a comment about the Minister's remark that we in the Netherlands are very fond of our freedom and that is why, as I understood, strict measures and enforcement are not always desirable. Honestly, I think this is one of the problems. When people are given a piece of advice, they are going to make their own decision and it often falls to their own advantage. My idea is that if there is an obligation, people are going to stick to it better, even without enforcement. To be honest, I am surprised that the government is not considering imposing a quarantine obligation on those who have been tested positively, while the legal basis for that is in the Public Health Act. So I'm not talking about preemptive quarantine. In the event of a positive test, you will receive a letter from the chairman of the security regions stating that obligation, and the notification that a violation of that obligation is punishable. I believe that this will result in a higher score than the current 50% of the people who keep the quarantine. This isn't about this law, but I just wanted to say it anyway. Another reflection. Many critical questions have been asked in this Chamber. I believe that this has been done to try to make the law more robust. I must say that the answers given by the Minister have not always contributed to the creation of clarity. I will come back to a number of points. This concerns in particular the exception provided for in paragraph 5. It is an exception; it is not a hardness clause. I do not read in the law or in the explanatory statement the limitation to the harrowing cases that the Minister has in this debate. It's about not being able to submit a negative test. We can talk about what "can't" means, and color the interpretation so that it doesn't get too wide. Mr Nicolaï has made a proposal to this effect. But in my opinion we cannot change the legal text and make it a harsh clause for poignant cases. It's formulated as an exception, and that's what it is. Then I come to the point of my own country. The Minister says that this is wider than being a national, and then refers to the explanatory statement. I read it again. The explanatory statement also states exactly that. It's about "national" and people for whom it's a country of their own. I think there's a need for clarity. Who are we talking about? I assume it's about Dutch people, so people with Dutch nationality, and about people who have their permanent residence in the Netherlands. I therefore assume that it applies at least to those groups, i.e. to residents and to the Dutch. If it applies to more people, I'd like to hear it. But can the Minister at least confirm that it applies at least to these two groups? One last question. Many European countries are demanding the negative test. The Minister mentioned examples. He did not mention whether those countries that also demand their own nationals, or only for people with other nationalities or other residences. If the President will allow me, I have one final point. We have talked extensively about Dutch people who can't go back because they haven't been able to show a negative test. But my question as to what we do with Dutch people who are not coming back because they have been tested positively has not been answered. Can the Minister promise that in the drafting of the motion on consular assistance, which was adopted in the House of Representatives, attention will be paid to this group, that is to say to those who have been tested positively, and not only to those who cannot get a test? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u196	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Three preliminary remarks. You have already recalled that this is the first Friday in 70 years that this Chamber has gathered. If I might add the challenge or be able to look at how long it has been since this Chamber came back on a Friday of recess, that might be a little longer ago, and that might make it even more unique. Mr. Chairman. Two other comments. First of all, Mr Otten, who was about a mortal sin by calling Wayne Gretzky an American, whereas that really is a Canadian. If you make that remark in Canada, I don't know if it's totally criminal, but it'll come in that direction. And, Mr. President, maybe it's an idea to give the Minister a running microphone next time. That really improves intelligibility. I'd like everyone to walk for half an hour according to the GGD hiking advice. Mr. Chairman. I heard the Minister say a number of things in his answer. What I am particularly concerned about is the execution on the bus and the trains. He says that passengers on trains are advised to get off at the next station. I hope that is not an advice and that if someone is found who is found not to have a negative test result, there will be another action than the friendly request to leave the train at the next station. The same applies to drivers of buses who have to ask for a certificate when boarding. Last week we read in the Volkskrant that drivers of FlixBus knew nothing about it. The company said they'd told them about it. So that's not going well. Which brings me to control, too. Who's checking? Is that the KMar? Is that the ILT, the Inspection Environment and Transport? Is that risk-driven? Because if you want one thing with this, there's a chance. Look at the black-driving. If you're never controlled, then the temptation is very great not to care. Is the capacity at all to carry out these controls? Then there is a question about the transfers. There's an exception for people who stay on a plane. You don't always know if you can sit down, but let's say... If a part stays in place and a part goes into the airport, then in the meantime everyone who gets out has been exposed to people without a negative test result, who may have been contagious for the rest of the plane. I don't get it. Shouldn't you just want people with contagion to get on a plane? A bit of Mr Van Hattem's inverse reasoning, but I do not understand that exception. We will check in the Netherlands whether a certificate from a testing institute is original and not counterfeit. Now there are a lot of private testing institutes in southern Europe; not everything is public. I wonder how a Dutch enforcer will check whether a test certificate issued by a Portuguese institute, for example, is authentic and justified. So I really do not have a good feeling about the practical implementation of supervision and enforcement. The necessity of the journey must be demonstrated. I heard the Minister say yesterday in the Lower House that that letter is actually there. It's already done. The Minister also knows the content, but did not think it appropriate to send it to the House of Representatives shortly before the debate yesterday and said it would be next week. But we're standing here now. I can imagine that this necessity of a journey, combined with a mandatory test, does something, if only for the capacity of one thing or another, for what one should check or not check. I had asked the Minister if legal grounds of this law would lapse if you had any evidence of vaccination that you were no longer contagious and contagious. Can you still demand one of those tests if someone can't put health at risk anymore? When it's clear that you're not contagious and contagious, does this category require such a test? Much has already been said about paragraph 5. The Minister said a few things about this, but I do agree with the whole discussion on the wider reading of the explanatory statement. That is why I have asked whether insufficient testing capacity is now an independent land or whether everything is added to it. The Minister is very much in favour of this, because there must also be other circumstances. At least I'm not reading that in there. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the motion, which I have just referred to. The minister said he didn't hear a question. I pointed out to the Minister that there was an error, so that, if something were to happen at the end of January, thirteen weeks had been given thought. That motion was passed here on 27 October. After a few weeks, the committee asked JenV about the situation and whether anything was going to happen. At that time, the answer of the VWS Minister was: "Before the recess, you have the modalities in mind." Then there was a delay note when we asked because nothing came up: "No, that will be right after the recess." I hear the Minister now saying it's gonna be the end of January. I find this really embarrassing. Mr. Chairman. The minister doesn't want to talk about hockey because he doesn't know anything about it. Then let me close with two quotes from his idol. I could give you three, but let me do two. The first quote, perhaps as a result of the reactive performance that I sometimes notice, is: "Something often has to happen before something happens." The last quote is due to the urgency we have to deal with here today: "If you see a player sprint, he left too late." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u198	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister, too. It's a minor legislative change, but it's still in a broad context. Whether we like it or not, it was also discussed extensively this afternoon. Maybe that's a good thing. Mr. Chairman. As far as the important point of that hardness clause is concerned, I was actually convinced that the Minister answered the questions well until Mr Van Dijk made the point of what I call 'the Dane'. A Dane can of course be the partner of a Dutch resident. They may have to travel to the Netherlands together for an important and very important family event and they both fall under the category that the test cannot provide. In that case, I'd think he'd be covered. The Minister is quite certain about this, but this is not at all such a theoretical case, because this is very common. I do understand that he is very reluctant, because on a plane full of transfer passengers there are most of the major flights at Schiphol Airport, which are all kinds of people who then blow out again, but this is about someone who has a very important destination in the Netherlands. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect on that. I have another subject that goes all the way back to the discussion. The Minister may have said it already and I do not need to explain it to him, because he has had a lot of short-term proceedings, but a short-term action is, of course, only a measure of order. The real question of law is, of course, not decided. That question of law is decided at most in a soil procedure. I would just like to say, legally, that this repair is, in my view, very useful, as far as legal requirements are concerned. It could prove useful and is therefore prudent. Mr. Chairman. I reached the point of the captain. The Minister didn't actually go into that. Maybe it's useful to do that for a while after all. While I am with the carrier: I think it is incredibly important for all Dutch who would like to fly back from abroad that the carrier is well aware of what is expected of him and that he communicates about it in good time. This is not just about consular assistance, it is actually about a step earlier. Mr Van Hattem also noted this. Since the Minister is still talking to the companies, I would ask him to raise this point again. Mr. Chairman. These are actually the most important points, except for the point made by Mr Bikker about traveling between the Kingdom parts, the islands. There is uncertainty about this: does the PCR test apply there and is it detachable? And if so, are there provisions for that? Is the Dutch Government prepared to assist in this? The Minister did not go into this, but perhaps he could take it with him later, because that is very important for those travelling between the islands and between the islands and the Netherlands. Mr President, I will conclude. Enough has been said about hockey. I checked it out and the word "Puck" is also a name and means "robber." That actually fits the virus. That concludes me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u200	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The most important point for my group is the application of the fifth paragraph. I think we need to agree that this is not really a hardness clause at all, but a regulation that is necessary to give shape to the law that is protected by treaty law. I think that if what I want to say to the Minister in my motion is not taken over, there is a great chance that the regime as it is now will not stand up in court. There has been a lot of criticism of that provision. There's a lack of clarity. There are two points. It should be made more clear that it is not actually possible to do so. And it must be a test which, of course, must not be carried out by a private carrier, but must ultimately be carried out by the public authorities, if only because there is really no legal protection against the private carrier's decision at the moment. I shall read the motions in a moment, but I see that Mr Backer wants to ask me another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u202	I'll wait for the motion to be read.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u203	The first motion is next. The: Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the explanatory memorandum to the fifth paragraph of Article 58p of the Public Health Act, the term "not available' in that provision does not mean that it was actually impossible to be tested, but could not reasonably be required of the person concerned to be tested;]] [[Whereas, in view of the provisions of Article 3 (2) of the Fourth Protocol to the ECHR and the fourth paragraph of Article 12 IVBPR, it is desirable that the fifth paragraph of Article 58p of the Public Health Act should be invoked where there are urgent interests of a personal nature which could reasonably not require the person concerned to be tested;]] [[calls on the Minister to state in writing, in order to explain the fifth paragraph of Article 58p of the Public Health Act to the carrier and all other persons involved in the application, that the provision must be interpreted as meaning that it can be relied on if, on the grounds of urgent interests of a personal nature, the person concerned could not reasonably be required to be tested,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35695-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u204	I have a question for Mr Nicolaï on the motion. I hear that it is said that it is not a question of 'not being able', but rather of 'not being able to be required'. My question is: isn't it also about actually not being able? Is the exception not also applicable if, for example, there is no test capacity at all in a country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u205	If you can't actually achieve it, then you can't reasonably blame yourself for not having the test. Reasonability also includes that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u206	I would suggest to make it "not only" because the reason for not being able to meet it reasonably according to your motion lies in the personal circumstances and not in the non-availability of the test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u207	The reason must lie in the personal circumstances, because it is a right of a Dutch national who is restricted. The Council of State also says that there must be a concrete balance. This concerns the personal interests of the person concerned vis-à-vis the general interests of the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u208	Mrs De Boer, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u209	But do you agree with me that if someone is staying in a country where by definition no test capacity is available, for example for non-residents, the fact that you have to return to the Netherlands at some point is sufficient personal circumstance, or should there be additional personal circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u210	I believe that Mrs De Boer's interpretation is indeed correct. If you want to go home and can't even have a test done at all, you'll find yourself in the situation where you meet the fact that there are urgent personal interests and you can't reasonably be opposed to not having a test done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u211	Thank you. You had a second motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u212	Yes. The second motion concerns a point which Mr Frentrop referred to, and I think that others have also felt some concern. The: Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for the person who wishes to enter the territory of the Netherlands as his own country to rely on the fifth paragraph of Article 58p of the Public Health Act, whether that appeal is justified, to be held by the carrier and not by the Dutch authorities;]] [[Whereas, in view of the provisions of Article 3 (2) of the Fourth Protocol to the ECHR and the fourth paragraph of Article 12 IVBPR, it is desirable that, in particular, the review or the right to have recourse to the fifth paragraph of Article 58p of the Public Health Act should be carried out by the Dutch authorities upon entry into the Netherlands;]] [[Invites the Minister to state in writing, in order to clarify the fifth paragraph of Article 58p of the Public Health Act to the carrier and all other persons involved in the application, that, in particular, the review or the right to appeal to the fifth paragraph of Article 58p of the Public Health Act should be carried out by the Dutch authorities upon entry into the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35695-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u213	I await the Minister's reply and his assessment of the first motion. I do object to the following. I know Mr Nicolaï a little now and I know he has certainly had an extremely thorough legal education, but that does not automatically give him the authority to say what the judge will decide if his motion is not adopted. 'Cause that's actually what he's saying. The motion has, of course, good elements, and there are a number of parts that appeal to me, but it's not so much a question of why I came forward when you introduced the case that goes wet with the judge if this doesn't happen. That seems to me to be too far-reaching. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u214	I'm not the judge. That's one. Nor am I the one who has the authority that Mr Backer is talking about. What I was trying to say is that, in my opinion, it is only in very special, extreme circumstances that it is possible to limit the right of return. I look at the treaty provision and the two opinions, including those of the Human Rights Committee to which the Council of State refers. My fear is that, if that is not guaranteed by this law, this will be a reason for the judge to intervene and that we will then again have to deal with a legal squeezer. What I have actually indicated is: what does the Minister, the Government and the Chamber have to say about ensuring that what we all consider to be reasonable is interpreted in this law in such a way as to prevent the basis for a possible failure? Because our group too is in favour of corona getting a big punch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u215	This is partly a repetition of moves, but I appreciate your answer. Then I'll move on to the second motion. Because it requires something that is not provided for in the regulation, if I understand correctly. And then you can actually do nothing but vote against it if it is not adopted. But we need to be clear about that. Or do I misunderstand you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u216	The brightness is as follows. It is someone who, also in the eyes of the Minister and a majority of the Chamber, is not subject to that obligation. He immediately had to get on the plane or on the train home, because Daddy was in a heart attack and could die within a few hours. Then you can't call in consular assistance. Then you can't do all kinds of other things. You just book the first train or the first plane. Then someone comes to the gate and the carrier says: yes, I don't believe that story. That's what the second motion is about. It can't be. The person concerned must have the possibility to be admitted. Then the transporter will report it when he arrives. The Dutch authorities will then check whether his story is correct or not. I think that is simply the result of the fact that the law of the Treaty, i.e. public law, is regulated. Then you can't put that review in the hands of a private carrier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u217	Mr. Backer, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u218	But the case you're sketching is still a part of the failure of the first part of your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u219	Yes. But the conductor doesn't think so, so she won't let my daughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u220	Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u221	I'd like to keep it out of personal casuism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u222	I wonder if Mr. Nicolaï is not going very far on a subject right now. If I don't have my passport, because I lost it or lost it, I won't be admitted to the plane, even though I'm Dutch. Then at that moment I have to get my passport in order, before I can get permission to travel back to the Netherlands. Now the condition is a negative PCR test. How am I supposed to see that? In the first case it is also the carrier that maintains it. Then I just know: okay, I have to go back, because I don't meet the conditions. Why would a PCR test suddenly involve something completely different?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u223	As far as I know, but perhaps the Minister knows that better than I do, it is governed by treaty that airlines are entitled to ask for a visa or a passport and to refuse you. That is not the case in this case. That's one. The second point I would like to make is this. A clause has now been included in paragraph 5. It has to be carried out. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u224	I expect the Minister to respond to this, too, so I await his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u225	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I go like a hare, because I have punished myself again with too short speaking time. My group is convinced that it is necessary, especially with these mutating viruses, to impose restrictions on travel from abroad. So we are very much inclined to vote for this law, but we also have great difficulty refusing people to enter their own territory. That is precisely what paragraph 5 was created for. Only, the Minister keeps it very small. I now agree with GroenLinks that it is not a hardness clause, but just an exception, a condition or whatever you want to call it. In my first term, I didn't refer for nothing to the premium affair, whereby you put too big a line on all people. Precisely paragraph 5 makes it possible to deliver customization. If you don't do something, I'm afraid the airlines will say: we don't know paragraph 5, we don't, you just need such a negative test and otherwise you won't come along. That's why the next motion. The: Mr Recourt proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that access to the territory of the State of which he is a national is protected as a fundamental right under the Treaty, but that that right may be restricted by law, provided that it is proportionate;]] [[noting that a fifth paragraph of Article 58p of the Wpg has been added to the present legislative proposal in order to ensure proportionality by the Government;]] [[noting that the derogation provided for in this paragraph is addressed to and to be implemented by transport undertakings;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the registration of refusal and application of the exception and to make it comprehensible to carriers in order to promote the unity of application,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. Kst-35695-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u227	Finally, I would like to thank the Minister, also for his commitment, but you understand that I did not think it was sufficient because of the gravity of this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u228	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister in particular for the clarification and clarification given. Much appreciated. Thank you for the reflections on flight bans and the like. In the first term, I said that those who do not leave the country do not have to return. That was all about flight vacations and other unnecessary trips. From the SGP, of course, we grant everyone freedom of travel, but if I sell it against, for example, closing schools, I do not think this is so radical. In fact, if citizens had to say with what measure or with what advice they have the least difficulty, I suspect that this might be a temporary waiver of a flight holiday. I look forward to the letter on this from Mr Grapperhaus' colleague. Finally. No hardness clause for non-Dutch. I understand the background, but I do not rule out the fact that we are running into really poignant cases with this. I sincerely wonder whether we should open or open a small mouse hole for this. For the rest, the SGP will support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u230	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. We'll wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u231	Mr. Chairman. The whole afternoon was actually about hockey: we have to skate to where the puck will be and not where it is now. I mentioned the North American ice hockey player Wayne Gretzky, who, as Mr Janssen rightly pointed out, came from Canada, but played in America for a very long time. Hence the confusion. Why did this Gretzky become such a huge legend in hockey and why did he always stand where the puck went? Because he has a unique kind of judgment to understand where he had to be a few seconds later. What have we done in the Netherlands? We have outsourced the whole corona policy to our own Wayne Gretzky, Jaap van Dissel, and the cabinet has actually eliminated its own judgment. But now we see that Mr Van Dissel's judgment is not the same as Gretzky's. As far as we are concerned, today's debate has shown that the cabinet is again behind the curve in this area. That's a recurring pattern. Why does that keep happening? I've been wondering that for a long time, ever since the start of the corona crisis. Somehow it doesn't work out intuitively to make the right choices. So you don't have to be a rocket scientist or a top hockey player to see that with the British virus variant, I just saw that the South African virus in Brabant has also turned up too soon. So the request to really think ahead. Maybe the minister used to shoot clay pigeons and then he'll know that you have to shoot for the clay pigeons and not behind them or on them, because you'll miss the clay pigeon. The cabinet should therefore now be dealing with what happens in two weeks' time and not with what happened two weeks ago. Mr. Chairman. I just noticed that the OMT has revised its view of the students. In the summer it was said: students do not have to keep their distance in secondary schools. In Germany, France and Belgium they did, and now the OMT is coming. I saw it on the NOS and tonight it comes to Nieuwsuur......................................................................................................................................................... So again the appeal to the cabinet to look at what is happening abroad. I read the foreign press and I follow that and I sometimes see things that I think: why doesn't the cabinet see that? I'm not that big a rocket scientist. So don't just go after Van Dissel and don't just say: we all believe it, because we just do what he says. No, use your common sense and think ahead and do whatever it takes!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u232	You are well over your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u233	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I had a lot of time left in my first term. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u234	Let's take the floor. In the meantime, I have allowed you to go beyond your speaking time, beyond everyone else. So I kindly ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u235	Yeah, I'm rounding up. I talked about the quality of the legislation. In our view, it is structuralally inadequate. The Minister has promised us that this is not due to the quality of the legislative lawyers. I would therefore like to call on the cabinet leaders to insist, at least in Parliament, that the quality of the legislation remains a matter of concern. In any case, if the Minister could somehow set in motion some sort of improvement path, we as a group would very much welcome it. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for the extra time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u236	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Van Pareren on behalf of the Van Pareren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u237	Mr. Chairman. I don't know if the question I have to ask the Minister, the Minister of VWS, is necessary, but the Minister of Justice has already indicated that he has been in training for four weeks. So that might be enough. I just missed the answer to the in vitro rapid tests. I indicated Australia, but I could also have indicated that they were used in Slovakia and Austria. So do we not limit ourselves too much to the test that is constantly being mentioned? I would like to hear your response to that, Minister. Maybe I missed it, but I didn't hear very well whether people who have been vaccinated are going to be exempt from this mandatory test. Mr Janssen has already mentioned the guarantee of these foreign tests. What exactly is that about? You mentioned something, but that didn't give me enough grip. Let me now turn to the words 'urgent opinion'. You use that all the time, but how do the behavioral scientists look at that? How much effect does that have? I just wanted to add that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u238	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have an open question about the temporality of the law. In fact, there is nothing in this legislative proposal about temporaryity, whereas in the title it says that it is a temporary proposal. I'd like to be clear about that from the Minister. Furthermore, in the debate on the COVID-19 emergency law on 27 October, the Van Hattem cum suis motion was adopted in order to establish in advance concrete verifiable indicators for any measure resulting from the then adopted emergency law. We have voted against this, for the sake of clarity, but we have received this motion. My question to the Minister is whether this motion is also involved in the drafting of this bill and the related measures. I have not been able to find it explicitly in the documents. Can the Minister explain how this motion adopted by this Chamber is implemented in this context? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the next point. It's about the visas. We have had some discussion about the now renowned paragraph 5; the 'hardness clause' is just one example. It is specifically about the situation surrounding the expiry of visas, which means that people not only have to stay at their foreign address for a little longer, but can actually get into trouble and even go to prison if they end up in a criminal situation abroad because of an expired visa. How is it handled? Can the Minister clarify that? Because it's a pretty serious situation if it gets people into this situation. Then there are the motions tabled by Mr Nicolaï and Mr Recourt. It was also a question of my interruption: there must be as much clarity as possible about the practical situation and its feasibility. I have looked at the motions, and I do not know whether these motions are going to give the extra clarity, so I would like to hear the Minister's response to them in a moment. In any case, it is a solid point of discussion, also in view of my question on visas. It is important to clarify this, but whether or not we have to go through the motions, we still have to look at it. Mr. Chairman. So much for my questions and so much for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u240	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u241	Let me make a point of order. An hour ago, the welfare court ruled, instead of Monday. The ministerial arrangement based on the Temporary Law measures covid-19 has been maintained. I think it would be a good thing if the Minister could reflect on this in the second term, because it is, I think, extremely important for what we are discussing here in the context of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u242	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u243	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know whether the Minister has had the opportunity to take good note of the Van Otterloo/Paternotte motion, otherwise I will have to repeat it all. With the limited speaking time, that is a bit difficult. I have the motion with me; that is the motion in part No. 13. I repeat, Mr President, if you will allow me, it will take a little more time. I repeat specifically the only question I asked: can the Minister, on the basis of this motion adopted, give the guarantee, in this case, give the undertaking that the speed test capacity was achieved everywhere at the time of the entry into force of this law? Or does the Minister think that this is another time limit and, if so, what is the time limit? More specifically, can the rapid test take place, for example, on arrival at Schiphol Airport of the category of travellers who have left without a PCR test? If not, how long will it take for this test capacity to be in order in all places? That's actually a repeat of moves. Then I have a few short questions. Firstly, if I listen carefully to this discussion, it is, apart from whether or not there is a hardness clause, even if it is not in the law, perhaps it would be good for the Minister to look again at whether it is not useful to inform the House of Representatives and the First Chamber further on how that should go in practice. But that's what I'm saying as a question. Mr. Chairman. Do people who have already been tested once have to have a second test before they are protected? A second question: if someone has had corona and is cured, and is therefore no longer contagious, does the mandatory test still apply? Finally, Mr President. I remember a statement, I quoot: you're not gonna see it until you figure it out. You can see who it belonged to. Governing is forward-looking, timely preparation, not waiting and not getting caught all the time. Germany has already extended the lockdown until 31 January. I won't bet with the minister, but the second curfew in Antwerp was there from 19 October, after the first in July. But I'm not gonna bet. Belgium set the second lockdown six weeks earlier than the Netherlands. Tonight, already, it is known that two thirds of the Dutch think that the lockdown should be extended. Let the cabinet realize that. Mr. Chairman. Those were my questions. I hope that the Minister will be able to give a very concrete answer to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u244	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Finally, Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u245	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive reply here today. In a debate in this Chamber on the restriction of fundamental rights, it is, of course, understandable to ask for legal aspects. In doing so, the risk is that we want to regulate everything legally. Laws are human work to which the virus unfortunately has no message. The VVD Group assesses this law primarily from the legitimate objective of protecting public health. There's no lawyer here, but someone with a care background. The words spoken by the Minister from his responsibility for the security of our country, therefore, I wholeheartedly endorse from the point of view of concern. In a number of colleagues, I sensed the need to evaluate the whole of the corona policy. I feel that need, too, but I'd like to save it for a later moment. Today, we have limited ourselves to an early examination of the legislative proposal before us, which we will support, as I indicated in the first term. I wish the Minister and the whole cabinet much wisdom in navigating our country through the coronastorm towards a safe haven, just to stay in travel terms. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. May I ask an order question about the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u246	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u247	We are voting today on the bill. I assume that the motions can be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would, of course, like to wait and see the Minister's opinion on it, but I would also like to hold group discussions on it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u248	The latter has been agreed at the College of Seniors, but I will make another proposal to the Chamber to vote on the motions on Tuesday. Then we'll see if that gets broad support. Finally, I would like to take the floor myself to answer a question put by Mr Janssen. As far as can be verified, since 1815 there has not been a meeting on a Friday in a recess. Since there was no First Chamber in the Netherlands before 1815, there has never been a meeting on a Friday in the recess, as far as can be verified. I think that answers your question. I shall see if one of the Members wishes to speak in the second term. That is not the case. Is the Minister able to answer directly the questions of the Chamber? You say two minutes to comb my hair. That is not a very credible argument, but I shall, nevertheless, suspend the sitting until 5:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u249	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u250	Mr. Chairman. I was going to say something about those short-term statements. I think that's good. Mr Janssen was right to ask for this. One of them has been brought forward and that is very important. I would just like to quote the judge, who says: "Although a more specific legal basis is conceivable and optimally desirable, in the opinion of the Court of Justice, this cannot, however, lead to the conclusion that this is an unmistakable non-binding regulation." The complicated thing is that as a minister, I have always said that I do not respond to judgments. So this is a bit complicated, but I still want to do a certain degree of tea leaves reading. This is due to my former self-defense, although it is beautiful here attorney's practice, which focused a lot on short-term cases. I see a single judge here in the room who will recognize that. Someone is looking for Mrs De Boer, of course, who has to make an assessment, actually of a so-called debt collection risk, at the point of: what happens if I point out and what happens if I turn down, and can I reverse it later or what are the consequences in the meantime? The most famous statement we always had for interns to make that clear was the lawyer of a kind of foundation like Natuurmonumenten who started a shortcut in the 1980s to prevent the Vietnam forest from being cut down and given a date for the shortcut a week later. The municipality just drove the bulldozers to it and on the day of the brief deal those trees were gone. Then the President of the Court of First Instance said, "Now I can't do anything, sorry, 'cause those trees are gone." This is without prejudice to the fact that such a person or such a foundation can then initiate a compensation procedure, but why don't you measure the damage if those trees have disappeared like woods in the fireplace of the municipal staff. Now back to this briefcase. It's always a preliminary assessment. What I read in the very sharp judgments of the judge so far is that he very much recognizes the importance of public health, but that he, therefore, quoted that piece of "although I would like a real legal basis more," perhaps in the light of the whole adopted yesterday in the House of Representatives, gives us some room. That means that we should still be able to establish this legal basis against that virus in the vote today in all wisdom, with all understanding that you, as a Chamber, say that the motions will not be tabled until Tuesday, because you can then consult your political groups on this matter. I would also like to say something, because I think that this is a good consideration before I start the reply and the motions. I'm gonna quote you one more time. The court has also considered that the quote "quote' is a temporary condition that is required for aircraft on board an aircraft "in the case of aircraft "in the case of aircraft "in the case of the Netherlands': "If that condition cannot be met, the return must be postponed for some time in the interest of public health until that condition can still be met'. I would like to give it to you, Mr President, and to your Members, before I come to paragraph 5 and so on, because once again we hear someone else, not just someone else, but the independent judge who reflects on it in that way and who, in particular, understands that that virus called one of your members a rascal, with the best of intentions, but I think it is sometimes a scumbag that forces us to do what we are doing right now. To conclude, and then I shall turn to the questions: there is still the importance of voting today, really today, on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u251	I'll come back on my first term. Now I hear this statement. The judge says: ideally, the Temporary Law measures covid-19 is not quite what you have to imagine to take care of it completely properly. Then my question, which I asked in the first term, is my appeal to the Minister: it could, if necessary, be dealt with in other legislation, with other measures, and that must be mapped out immediately, otherwise we will be here every Friday to discuss an emergency law on another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u252	I had already said it to Mr Janssen, but I would like to repeat it, not in a sport comparison but in a comparison of a boat sailing in a much too narrow canal in the fog: we also need to see what is happening behind the boat. Did we do that right? And what's the effect? I am very grateful for the fact that I was not there in 1815 and do not know what happened at the time that you met today. And that was because, on behalf of the cabinet, I say: I very much want us to have that certainty and make it with each other. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the questions and then I'll go over the motions. I'll take Mrs. De Boer's two questions first. I would just like to make the following very clear about the concept of homeland. I was perhaps a little short just now by not reading the text completely. I'll do that now. The protocol at the ECHR says: their nationals. The BUPO Treaty says: our own country. I have chosen 'the own country', because that is wider than being Dutch. According to the case law, these are also people who have special ties with the Netherlands. An example: people who have lived here for decades even though they are not Dutch. And I want to say out loud: an example is also a non-Dutch husband or cohabiting partner who goes back. I would like to point out to Mr Van Dijk that we are therefore talking about the situation in which no negative PCR test can be obtained. So we are really talking about Congo or something like that, where this Dane and his Dutch wife are located. If she can't get that test and he can't, then that's part of the home country principle; I really want to say that out loud. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Boer also asked about those positive tests, and I had also answered them. Transporters have, of course, an obligation to ensure that the passenger can show a negative test result. The carrier must therefore also ensure that this has happened. I should like to point out in a moment that, according to the current practice, Foreign Affairs is receiving the distressing reports from the carrier. That's where they see what they can do with that. Therefore, if the passenger does not meet the conditions, the carrier must act in a enforcement manner. If he doesn't, then you have someone who has been tested positive and who may be in the Netherlands. Now it is true that a fine will apply to the carrier and that this positively tested person in the Netherlands cannot be refused either. Now Mrs De Boer also asked: what do you do with people who are in a faraway country and who have been tested positive? That is, of course, a point. In principle, these people do not have a negative PCR test. The starting point is that they won't be able to come back. Then you come to the question of whether the Foreign Office can establish in that situation that it could indeed be classified as a poignant case falling under paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u253	I am glad that the Minister finally came to the positive tests in the foreign country, because that was what my question was about. My question is not only: how do we get these people here? Consular assistance can also, of course, be about: how can we support the people there? I asked a very specific question. A motion has been passed in the Lower House concerning consular assistance. I think it's going to be reported to the House of Representatives very soon. Can the Minister promise that this motion will take into account the position of people who have been tested in the foreign positive? What can the consular assistance do for them? They can then see both on getting them to the Netherlands, and on supporting them in a different way in the country where they are, for example because the visa expires or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u254	Absolutely. That is also Mr Van Dijk's point. I admit that we will come back to that point in that letter. These are the situations you say... Then we shouldn't have a moral judgment. If someone has gone to a holiday country healthy and well, where the virus gets in trouble, then we have to see how we solve it. I shall return to this in the letter. Mr Janssen had another question about the traveller who does not have a negative test result. It is and will remain so that the NS checks at the card check. If that traveller does not have a negative PCR test, he will be asked to get out. And if the traveller stays seated, then the NS can call the police on Dutch territory. That's exactly how we talked about it with each other. We also need to see how things are going in practice. The NS informs that there are no problems after the start-up. There are currently no or few passengers without a negative PCR test. The same goes for the FlixBus. There, too, passengers seem to be very well aware of the measure. The legal basis for the flight ban is Article 15, first paragraph, part a of the Aviation Act. This is the formal legal basis for banning or restricting civilian air traffic in Dutch airspace. That is an arrangement of the Minister of IenW. In addition, paragraph 1 of Article 58p provides that the provision of certain categories of passenger transport may be prohibited in whole or in part in a ministerial arrangement. So that could work in addition to that. Then it would be an arrangement under the temporary law of the three of us: VWS, BZK and JenV together. It has been said in the history of law that this must be the ultimate means, if less far-reaching measures do not work. Then there was Mr Backer's question, and I thought of others in the first term about the Caribbean, because I had not explained that quite clearly. Currently there is a flight ban for travel to Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, with the exception of the Netherlands, Germany and a number of neighbouring islands. Saint-Eustatius and Saba have adopted policies on entry measures for travellers from the countries excluded from the flight ban. Bonaire has taken entry measures under an emergency regulation. Following the entry into force of the bill, that emergency regulation may continue until the Ministerial Arrangement for Bonaire has been amended. Consultations are currently taking place with the islands on this continuation. As countries within the Kingdom, Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten naturally have their own rules governing whether travellers travelling from the Netherlands or other countries to those islands should be able to submit a negative test declaration. For travelling from Curaçao, Aruba, Sint-Maarten and the European Netherlands such an obligation can be arranged on the basis of Article 58p. Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten are considered as foreign for the purposes of the law and there is only a test obligation if they are designated by the Minister of VWS as a high risk area. Mr. Chairman. On the question about the commander, I thought I had already said something else in the first round. In itself, the commander has the function of an investigative officer and he may exercise it as soon as the Dutch territory has become. That is, of course, the case if the plane has taken off or is still like the taxi, I think. Not yet, of course, when the plane is open, because then it is just Dutch territory again. So he may then have powers of investigation or record-keeping, detention and so on. I will come to the point about the hardness clause later. I shall also look at Mr Recourt. It must really be a very strict obligation at the gate, when it comes to an aircraft, so somewhere in Zurich or Zimbabwe, or at the time of boarding the FlixBus or the train. Mr. Chairman. Then I thought I answered most of the questions, because some things have been made as an announcement. I would like to say to Mr Van Rooijen that, as regards the motion by Paternotte and Van Otterloo, we are now in the process of settling that. I got a bit of the impression from Mr Van Rooijen that whole battalions of people will be coming into this base. I said yesterday in the House of Representatives: I can admit that, because it will, given the exceptional position, but in a few cases it will end up. That is and will remain the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u255	I had the impression that the Minister had come to the end of his reply. He said a number of announcements had been made. I heard him speak again about the hardness clause. However, I would like to respond to my observation that we are strictly speaking not talking here about a hardness clause, a kind of discretionary power, a judgment on the distress, but an exception with a standard, which may also need to be filled in. But, legally speaking, that's really something else. So I would like to know what the Minister thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u256	I wanted to come back to paragraph 5 on the motions for resolutions, but I am going to say it right now, because I find that so courteous. "Hardness clause" is not a legal concept. Mr Nicolaï was the first to say that it is not a hardness clause, but the question is, of course, what exactly is the definition of it? I took the decision of the Council of State, after all. A quote from page 2: "This is without prejudice, however, to the fact that the conditions to be laid down must not be such that the right to travel can in fact no longer be exercised under any circumstances" et cetera, etc. The abovementioned Articles of the IVBPR and the ECHR do not give rise to an absolute right. It is a right in which there is still a certain space. The Council of State says: be very economical, because that is not much room. So you have to put that very well. I'm not very fond of the term "hardness clause." In the end, what matters is that we do justice to what the Council of State is observing here. I also think that's what happened in the bill. When I come to the motions, I am going to say in advance: see also my second quote from the judge in the interim, because the room for the exceptions in paragraph 5 will always be very small. But I'll discuss the motions later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u257	Very briefly. I welcome what the Minister says about this, but perhaps just to make it very clear. "Hardness clause" in my view implies that there must be distress in the circumstances. In my opinion, the Council of State and the text of the bill also state that 'can not' does not necessarily have to be distressed; that was also a bit of the discussion I had just had with Mr Nicolaï. If you are in a country where you simply cannot be tested and where you cannot get a test, I think that is a situation of 'not being able' where there does not necessarily need to be a distress. If we can agree that very exceptional cases where a person is in a country where no tests are available may also be covered by this exception or, if necessary, by this hardness clause, we agree. I don't care about words. In fact, I am concerned that you should not actually make it impossible on the basis of the Fourth Protocol. Making it actually impossible can be seen on more than harrowingness. That can also be seen on the fact that it is impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u258	The harrowing has just been brought up by me as an extra. Let me just say this first. The Council of State says that it should not be so far-reaching that the right to travel cannot in fact be exercised under any circumstances. We have to take that as a starting point. The circumstances that we say will make it possible to do so are, firstly, situations in which someone says: I have looked around here in Brazzaville and the perimeter, but there is simply no test to be obtained here, or that is not to be done unless there are ten thousand or hundreds of thousands of people and I will not be there for another six weeks. I can also imagine. I have said of this in the House of Representatives, and I have repeated it here: 'under no circumstances' means that the person says: it is absolutely impossible here, but as soon as I am at Schiphol, I am in any case prepared to do a quick test or something like that. That's one. The second point, where I may even go a little further than the Council of State, was also mentioned in the explanatory statement. The poignant situation may be that someone in that same Brazzaville might also be in Rome, which is a lot easier to hear that his father or another loved one died, that he wasn't reachable for two days, for example because he was doing field work as a geologist, that he hears it now and that he has to go back, because the funeral is the next day or two days later and because he doesn't make it with a PCR test. Then I understand that in such a situation we say that we find that a poignant case. I say immediately that the practice is, and it has been very clear in recent weeks, that the carrier can go to the Foreign Office if someone can't get the test or doesn't have the time because he has to leave. The State Department actually advises on whether or not it can. I have that as a recommendation to one of the motions, but I have already told you that. I think that this should also be the starting point in practice: if someone is not being heard, then I will be back with Mr Recourt at least in almost all cases he should have the opportunity to get consular advice or involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u259	As a result of the Minister's answer to my question, I did not wish to give the impression that these were very large numbers, regardless of what was discussed in the House of Representatives. The hardness clause is there and the motion has been adopted. I therefore assume that the Minister is prepared to apply this in the spirit of the hardness clause. Can he promise, whether there are a few or more, that from Monday when the law has entered into force, at least the rapid testing capacity at the arrivals, for example, at Schiphol Airport, is really present for that hopefully small group? Can he promise that? It should not be the case that if the law enters into force on Monday, the capacity at Schiphol Airport is not or insufficient. That is my specific question. I'd like to get that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u260	I've left the motion for that reason to judge Chamber. For those Article 5 cases, if I may put it that way, that fast test capacity will be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u261	I understand that the Minister is now due to the motions, but I had asked two more questions in the second term, which came to my mind in response to this afternoon's debate. What if there was a first PCR test, but not a second? My other question was the following. If you've had corona and you're cured of it and you're no longer contagious, doesn't the PCR test requirement apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u262	I believe that Mr Frentrop or someone else was asking for this too. We don't know yet whether the vaccine actually works against being contagious. I would just like to say that, because I may have said it too hastily in the first term. We just don't know yet. There are also people who have had two or even three corona. I believe three times the number of times. That's a countdown. So what's annoying is that with someone who's already had it, apart from the fact that whoever should have some kind of hospital certificate or something like that, you don't know if he's not gonna get it again or is still contagious for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u263	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u264	The answer is therefore that the PCR test is required.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u265	We need to see a negative PCR test from everyone, indeed, even though it might be a bit hummy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u266	And the other question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u267	If you've had one PCR test and the second one that needs to be safe within three or four weeks... should it be one or two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u268	No, you must have had one test. That second test is to see what might have happened to someone after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u269	I said someplace wrong vaccine earlier, but I meant PCR test there, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u270	Then Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u271	I have another question about law, and that's charm. I have asked three times a number of questions which have probably been understood as communications, but which were still questions. The question of whether vaccination protects you from testing has already been answered. What I want to ask is about the in vitro tests. Next to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u272	That's about paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u273	The Minister knows what you mean, so I suggest he respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u274	I apologize. I had already referred to this in the first period; this concerns paragraph 4. PCR is not so much in the legal text, so I have also pointed out the LAMP PCR test as an example the OMT is looking at, because maybe it can come in place of a PCR test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u275	So you answered him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u276	The current legal text offers room for this. But I don't think it's a good idea to confirm it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u277	I suggest we don't answer the questions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u278	This is a sufficient answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u279	The type of test, Chairman. It is set out in paragraph 4 (b).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u280	He's been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u281	It says: "A scheme as referred to in paragraph 3 shall lay down requirements relating to the test, which in any case relate to (...) b. the type of test that has been carried out."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u282	You don't have to answer the question again, Minister. Mr. Van Pareren, you had another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u283	Yes, one more, Mr. Chairman, about securing the foreign tests. How are we gonna make sure those tests are good tests? Because we're talking about separate countries. We are not all talking about Portugal or Madeira, but also about other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u284	That has to do with the five implementation points I mentioned in the first term. One of them is that you submit an adequate certificate of a performed PCR test. I have to be careful so I say it right. If you're in Verweggistan and you want to get away from it, and you're giving a gentleman in Verweggistan money under the table or above the table to draw up some kind of fake certificate, it's yours in the end and then it's fakeness in writing. But the transporter will have someone he's not allowed to transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u285	This too has already been discussed, Mr Van Pareren. So I suggest we not repeat everything now. The questions have been answered. Will you be okay with that? Yes. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u286	Mr. Chairman. I counted three motions. Am I right? Two by Mr Nicolaï and one by Mr Recourt. Mr Nicolaï's first motion, on point D, states in the operative part: on the grounds of urgent interests of a personal nature, the person concerned could not reasonably be required to be tested. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. The fifth paragraph is really intended to comply with Article 12 BUPO and Article 3 (2) of the Fourth Protocol of the ECHR. I just had a little debate on that with Mrs De Boer. We're bound by that. That means a very small exception. I think I've explained it enough here. It must not be about subjectively assessed circumstances. It really has to be that the carrier or the consular assistance has objectively established that there is no possibility that it cannot be done. Well, I said it: that occurs either with total not being available at a reasonable distance or time limit, or, b, in a very distressing situation. That is not, therefore: personal interests or interests of a personal nature which make it so in reasonable fashion. That really leaves the door open too much. So I must discourage this motion. But! The good news is that I can give the second motion by Mr Nicolaï, on involving the Foreign Affairs Committee in the poignant cases, judgment Chamber. That is also in line with what I said earlier. I do not know whether further clarification is needed. Then I come to Mr Recourt's motion. I'm gonna have to dissuade them, too. I'd like to close that up a little bit, too. Your Chamber has once in a while given me a bit of a shine about how strict you can be and how strict you have to be. I really think we should be strict about this. I can't say "hardness clause" anymore. That's really got to be casual. So we should not translate this into a duty to inform carriers or into a feedback on the way in which a kind of policy develops. It really must be the casuistic situation of someone reporting and saying that there is something terrible going on in his family or someone being chased by a local calamity. That is what I said in the House of Representatives. Somewhere a civil war breaks out or someone shows up. I am addressing Mrs De Boer that it is simply impossible to get a test. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on behalf of the cabinet, I would like to say that I am very grateful that you have all gathered for it today. I really mean that. It does me good that there is between that Azewijn horse and that last time 100 years, because then we are really writing history with each other in a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u287	Thank you, Minister. Mr Recourt. Sorry, Mr. Van Hattem, excuse me. You guys look a little alike.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u288	In the second term, I asked the Minister three questions to which I have not yet heard an answer. Let me repeat them briefly. That is the question about temporaryity, the question about the implementation of the motion adopted on 27 October and a specific question about visas and the serious consequences that may arise from the expiry of visas. I haven't had a specific reaction to that either. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u289	The temporality... that's just as legal-technical. These articles are attached to the covidwet. They have determined nothing else about the duration of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. To make it even more interesting: they also add to paragraph 2 and paragraph 1 of 58p. Assuming someone would like to claim that this is some sort of self-supporting body that floats through, then there is no basis anymore. We have not intended this law to change the duration of the Twm, so it is still as short as it is. I'd gone for the visa, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u290	Not specifically, anyway. In general terms, on Article 5, but not specifically on visas and the serious consequences that they have, which can really get people between ship and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u291	I have to admit that is my fault, Mr Van Dijk, that I referred to it, but I should not have done so. On the subject of visas, I said, on the occasion of the Dane and his wife, and in the wake of that, that you will have to see if there are circumstances leading to a distressing situation. Then I said that I would come back to it in the letter that Mrs De Boer asked for, because that is where these kinds of situations belong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u292	Then I suppose that'll come back in the letter, too. Thank you for that. Finally, on the implementation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u293	I really am... I didn't do that, because I am... what was that motion again? Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u294	The motion that measures based on the emergency law on the front should always be made clear in what way it is effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u295	Yes. It happens. I think that, in this legal process, we have discussed the degree of effectiveness quite extensively in this exchange of views. I have also admitted that, unfortunately, this has not yet been achieved, so we need to look at more. Furthermore, it is of course true that in every package of measures we are still taking this into account in detail, and perhaps even now more comprehensively, what Mr Otten was doing by means of the legal provision, which is what Mr Otten said about "Outbreak Management Team" and the RIVM, but also by the Health Council at the vaccinations. The problem of the unrest surrounding vaccination policy in December was, of course, that the opinions of the various authorities did not congruate to the full 200 percent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u296	That is in a very general sense. The motion dealt more specifically with the definition of testable indicators. I didn't really get that element out. If there is another letter, it can also be included in that letter as far as I am concerned. Then there is room for further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u297	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u299	I was just being addressed by the Minister. My point was precisely what he himself is raising here: that there is a jungle of all kinds of agencies and consultation and meeting circuits, with all kinds of conflicting interests and opposing opinions. So it is up to the cabinet to show that judgment, as I have called it, to see where the puck is going, to stay in hockey terms. Of course, you can never predict that completely, but if you look at what is being done in other countries, you can see with some discretion what needs to be done. Everywhere the lockdown is now being extended, and I just heard Rutte say: we're not leaving the lockdown yet. Yeah, that's then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u300	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u301	Well, the Minister speaks to me. So, as I said earlier, there should have been some kind of system built around this whole polder model in order to combat this virus effectively. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u302	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u303	No. The system's here. I don't see any jungle either. I really don't know where that thought came from. I do see a jungle of talk shows, tweets and opinions. That's very difficult. If Mr Otten had asked me to do so, I would have said: you have to accept that if you have such a public function and even try to manage a crisis. I really want us to follow the OMT and the RIVM. We don't just do that. In their advice they look very much abroad before giving advice, not on the basis of documents from the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, but also really scientific. The really nasty thing is that science is still developing with respect to this virus. So we'll still have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u304	Thank you. I am going to end this general discussion. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u305	Those talk programs: I see Minister De Jonge almost more in talk programs than in dealing with the virus. He can put that in his pocket, but okay. Thank you for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u306	Thank you, Mr. Otten. The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u307	I never get to talk shows.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-08-eerstekamer-3.u309	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote directly on the bill. I also propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. I see that the Chamber agrees with that.
