ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate Amendment to the decision on the admission of the institutions to housing 20125. A warm welcome to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I give the floor to the applicant for this two-minute debate, Mr Koerhuis of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have requested this two-minute debate because I am concerned about the allocation of social housing. Almost a year ago, I came into contact with Sammy-Jo. She lost her father in February 2020. After almost six months, she suddenly got the message from the corporation that she had to leave the house. This is not just an individual case, the names are known: Sammy-Jo, Annica, Milo, for a few weeks Faith, and all the others who have approached me and who do not want to be disclosed. For these children in merchant houses, Secretary of State Vijlbrief is now going to amend the law, and that is good news. For these children in rental houses, we are still waiting for Minister Ollongren. Tomorrow night, I will receive another orphan who has been notified by a corporation that she has to leave the house. What do you want me to tell her? That she should sleep on the street? That she has to go to the homeless shelter? Or can I tell her that Minister Ollongren is going to amend the law now? Everyone agrees that these children are extra vulnerable. And I think everyone agrees that this also applies to children of divorced parents. The examples are again known: Suzanne from Hilversum, with three young children, who have to go from the municipality to the homeless shelter; Hamouch and I hope that I pronounce his name well from The Hague, who has to sleep with three children on the ground in an office, and who of the municipality itself has to arrange shelter within his social network. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that divorced parents and their children in the Netherlands do not always receive urgency for a social rental house;]] [[Whereas children of divorced parents are particularly vulnerable;]] [[calls on the Government to identify these issues, to come up with solutions and to inform the Chamber after the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the House of Lords.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-749]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u3	Mr. Chairman. We have social housing in the Netherlands, and you are eligible for a certain income, and you have the free sector. There is a gap, because there are a lot of people who earn too much for a social housing and too little to buy their own home. And that's why I made this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there has been discussion for some time as to whether it is possible under European legislation to further increase the income threshold for social housing, the SGEI income limit;]] [[whereas, following an investigation into European regulations and market failures in the Irish housing market, the Irish Government intends to set up a new SGEI category which will allow for the provision of social housing for middle income;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether the Irish approach could also be followed in the Netherlands and to inform the Court of its results for the budget for 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Nijboer and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-750]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions from the D66 side, but a single question to the Minister. In the written consultation prior to this two-minute debate, my group asked a question about the active implementation of the free allocation area, which allows corporations to also allocate housing to middle-income people. My predecessor, Jessica van Eijs, received a motion in December 2020 to make more agreements on that free allocation area. My question to the Minister is: what is the state of play regarding the implementation of the motion in question? And how can the Minister, together with interested parties such as municipalities and housing corporations, make greater use of this free allocation space? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u5	Thank you. Then I'm looking at Mrs. Beckerman, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a bit of a doubt whether we should now table a proposal, because next Thursday we will have a big debate on living and corona. Fortunately, I would like to say, because this housing crisis is getting deeper and deeper. The tricky part is that Band-Aids don't help anymore. As far as the SP is concerned, it is necessary that we no longer consider living as a market, but as housing again. So I have for a long time doubted whether we should seize this moment, this two-minute debate, to stick some more patches, or whether we should have a good debate on Thursday. That's why there's no motion from me. I did file a motion with Mrs Bromet. I also have a question that we would like to include in Thursday's debate. I thought that might be useful. Then we're gonna get there and we're gonna get stuck on the ice. It's nice to see those income limits being temporarily raised. The SP has indicated that this should not be temporary but should be permanent. But this housing crisis is getting bigger and bigger. I would like to ask the Minister to respond to the latest figures from the Land Registry. Those show that 18,000 corporate houses were sold in 2019, with an increase of 130% in sales to corporate investors. Social housing has been sold to investors. We are happy to continue on Thursday, because we believe that this should stop. But we would like to ask for a response now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u7	Thank you. Finally, Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u8	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Beckerman said, next Thursday we will have a nice debate on living, on the subject of housing for many people. That's why I'm not going to put in a lot of questions and ideas I have on that right now, but then. Now I do have one motion following the written consultation and the answers to questions about multi-person households, which do not entirely satisfy the Christian Union. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the size of multi-person households is not taken into account when determining the income limit for social housing;]] [[whereas a family with four children needs 20 percentage points of disposable income more than a family with one child (35 per cent versus 15% according to the Nibud);]] [[calls on the Government to monitor whether the recently established SGEI limits pose problems for the affordable housing of larger households with relatively low disposable income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-751]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u9	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u10	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. I will suspend for a few moments and then we will listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u11	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did wait for the last motion, but I have it now. Thank you for the questions and the comments that have been made. Mr Koerhuis has been calling attention to the orphans for some time now. You're right. I didn't answer any questions about this very long ago either. I said at the time that the way we work on this is not a legislative amendment, which would also take a lot of time. We're gonna create a code of conduct that will do the same. I have also promised to inform the House of this before the summer. He can hold me to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u13	Since we see corporations just continuing to evict orphans, I don't think a code of conduct like this is going to have much effect. They can behave better now, too. Doesn't the Minister agree with me? Shouldn't she come up with an amendment to the law, as her colleague Mr Vijlbrief does?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u14	Mr Koerhuis and I have already had a debate on this. Then I also explained why that really is a different situation. That has to do with inheritance law. I think that Mr Koerhuis and I would like to achieve the objective of not creating such distressing situations, where orphans, adult children who still live with their parents, find themselves in a very annoying situation. That is what we want to achieve together. I am convinced that this should not necessarily be done by means of a legislative amendment. I will inform the Chamber about this and I am sure we will be able to discuss it further with each other. At least we agree on the goal. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 749. It's about the divorced parents. The Housing Act empowers municipal councils to determine, in the event of scarcity, how housing should be distributed. There are mandatory priority categories and priority categories that municipalities themselves can determine. Then they decide for themselves who is eligible for urgency. So municipalities have that possibility. They may decide that a divorced parent and his or her children are given urgency. That happens in some cases already. I am in favour of leaving this to the municipalities themselves, given that the situation in the local housing market can be very different. Municipalities decide which groups are assigned emergency status. Against that background, moreover, at the request of Mr Koerhuis, a compulsory priority category has been removed from the Housing Act. Given this background and the possibilities that already exist, I would advise against Mr Koerhuis' motion. Then I am with Mrs Bromet, who also on behalf of Mr Nijboer and Mrs Beckerman, the motion for a resolution on item No. 750. That motion sees an investigation into a new category or extension for middle incomes. I recently sent a letter to the Court explaining how SGEIs and State aid operate. That was at Mr Nijboer's request. I have also explained the possibility of creating a new SGEI. I actually understand this motion as a request for a deepening of what is already addressed in that letter and to indicate what a new middle income SGEI might look like. I can imagine that need, so I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. There was another question from Mr Boulakjar about the free allocation area. He referred to a motion previously tabled by Mrs Van Eijs. The bill provides local space to increase the free allocation area to 15%. The motion adopted to which he referred calls for the encouragement of parties to make local agreements on the free allocation area. Local parties will be able to make that appointment when the law and decision come into force. In preparation for this, we work together with Aedes, VNG and the Housing Union to ensure that these agreements are made. We call that the information trajectory of the Housing Act. On the basis of the performance agreements concluded and the figures on the use of free space, I will monitor whether this actually leads to the desired results. So it is not an obligation to make agreements about it, but we are working through these performance agreements. That is actually a voluntary agreement between three parties. It is also not certain that the entire free space is needed, but I do think it is important to encourage the use of the space that has been created. So I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u15	Mr Boulakjar has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u16	Corporations already have the space to allocate homes freely, and we see that these percentages are still very low. Does the Minister know why housing corporations are not already using that allocation space?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u17	The fact is that they do not use the space there is. So there's room to improve that. In fact, we are actually creating even more space to improve that and we are also creating more space for customization. Without being able to point out one specific reason why this does not happen, it is very important that it is not just something of the housing corporations but that the tenants also actively send to it through the Housing Association or other organised association and the municipalities. So I'm really trying to encourage those three parties that have that responsibility together to use up that free allocation space because I think this is important, both for the different groups and for the livingability. Then there is Mrs Beckerman's comment. Indeed, next Thursday we will be talking very extensively about everything that is going on around the housing market. She pointed to new figures from the Land Registry on the sale of social housing. I think it is a good thing that we come back to that on Thursday. My first reaction now would be: those numbers should be set against what is behind them. These are also figures that include, for example, mutual sales between housing corporations. Some housing corporations may be able to sell more on the one hand and then create more space to build a lot of extra. So I don't think the figure in itself is worth much. You should look underneath. I suggest that we come back to that in more detail on Thursday. Mr Grinwis' motion calls for monitoring whether the recently established SGEI limits are problematic. I think it is right to do so, so I would like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u18	Mrs. Beckerman, I see you hesitating. Can you not keep your question for the debate later this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u19	That is possible, but I asked for an initial response, of course, precisely to the 130% increase in corporate investors and not necessarily in the case of corporations among themselves. So it would, I think, be helpful if the Minister could take a very brief look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u20	I told you to look behind the numbers. I recognized the figures mentioned by Mrs Beckerman as figures including the mutual sales of housing corporations. When it comes to investors, there is a law amendment that still has to be dealt with by the First Chamber and which provides for buy-back protection. Municipalities are, of course, already in the process of applying it. This offers them the opportunity to do something for specific neighbourhoods where this is going on and where start-ups and middle-incomes simply don't get in the way because investors have deeper pockets, and for certain neighbourhoods that aren't getting much better in terms of livingability because investors mainly rent out for very short-lived housing, for example for migrant workers. So I think it is important to point out to Mrs Beckerman that this is a phenomenon that we have seen in recent years and which we have often debated. We have also dealt with it carefully, also because of the right to property, but we have chosen to continue to ensure that the protection of buy-backs is put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u21	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-23.u22	The three motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
