ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	This morning we have a two-minute debate on the Competitiveness Council. I welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, Mrs Keijzer, and the members of Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA, Mr De Jong of D66, Mr Van der Lee of GroenLinks and Mrs Paul of the VVD. We'll start with Mrs. Van Dijk from the CDA for her input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We'd like to file two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that consideration is being given to a national recovery and transition policy;]] [[Whereas local authorities are jointly proposing a strong green recovery in which they address societal challenges in the areas of housing, climate and regional economy;]] [[noting that the IPO Recovery Plan Regional Economy, drawn up following the Heerma/Segers motion, proposes investments in regional earning capacity, the regional labour market and the locational environment, using SME initiatives;]] [[Whereas an official review has been carried out of the possible content of a Dutch recovery plan and concrete investments under the RRP, but local authorities are not formally involved in it, even if support in the region is a condition of the RRF;]] [[calls on the government to consult the concept of RRP with stakeholders, including the local authorities, in order to achieve an RRP that has broad support and contributes to recovery and transition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-30-531]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	The next motion will be submitted together with Mrs Paul.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	But before you continue to do so, there is a question from Mr De Jong of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	Last night we also heard the Secretary of State say that the regions are already informally involved, including the VNG and the IPO. My specific question is therefore what is the point of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	To get it out of the informal circuit and give it a little more body so that the stakeholders are really represented. What's informal? We just want to have a little more solidity on it and a little more commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	I also see Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	I have another question with regard to this motion, because it is clear that it is part of the formation; it is even at the heart of the task of the informant who is now working and in which a lot of parties are still involved. As the Netherlands, we have already waited for projects to be submitted. It's been a year. We don't know how long this formation will last. And what if agreements are made in the formation about this and we can only act if your motion has to be carried out as well? Soon we'll just miss the money because time runs out and we don't submit plans. So I wonder what the consequences of this motion would be if we supported it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	If I have heard correctly from the answers we had yesterday, there is already good contact with various governments. So the whole project doesn't have to be restarted. Only, we want to make sure that the involvement is well secured, because, as I indicated in the motion, it is very important that the regional basis is well secured. We want to anchor that well in the process. So, as far as we are concerned, the Secretary of State will probably confirm or deny it, but there is no delay, so that we are well anchored, so that we meet the conditions and the regional authorities who then have to go on with it and who see its direct consequences in their society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	A follow-up question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	It is not clear to me what needs to be done now. What should the government do now, when this is a subject on the formation table?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	We would like to see reports that there is indeed a serious involvement of the regional authorities and that they will not all really get what they want. They will be listened to carefully and to the interests and needs that live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. Then you'll come to your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that our businesses experience unfair competition from state-supported third-country companies, such as China;]] [[Whereas the International Procurement Instrument (IPI) is intended to enforce access to closed markets in third countries for EU companies, but this instrument is still under development;]] [[noting that the WTO GPA aims to create a level playing field between signatory countries by setting reciprocity as a standard in public procurement;]] [[Whereas not all countries have signed the GPA, including China, but Chinese state-supported companies can act freely on the European and Dutch markets;]] [[Calls on the Government to commit itself in Brussels to effective and early implementation of the IPI and to inform the Summer Recess Chamber on the state of play;]] [[calls on the Government to actively promote information and consultation on exclusion opportunities under the GPA among local authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Paul.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-30-532]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	I have a little more doubts about this motion, because the GPA you are talking about is only about a very limited number of countries. As I heard you yesterday talking about where you want to go, you are also excluding a lot of countries. Let me get this straight. That's question one. Do you not think that we are taking protectionist measures in this way, which might well put Dutch industry in the footsteps? One final point. We also understand that the WTO is trying to reform. Then what does your motion contribute? Because we already understand that this is happening now, so I do not quite see the point of this motion when those reforms are already in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	The approach of the motion is to contribute to that level playing field. We can now see that, especially in certain sectors, they are really bothered by the hole that is now there. There are large companies, often located abroad, that do a lot of business with locally established companies. With this motion, we hope to contribute to the fact that the locally established companies will simply be able to operate and maintain jobs, economic growth and economic recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	A follow-up question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	I'm just trying to get it real sharp. Is it true that you are indeed saying: we very much want the Dutch cabinet to ensure that we exclude those countries that are not now members of that GPA block from trade?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	Yesterday there was talk of reciprocity and a level playing field. If we really want to go there, we do think that we should also dare to take a firm step together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	Clear. Thank you. No, two interruptions is enough, Mr. De Jong. You had an extensive debate with each other yesterday. And thank you for giving us the motions. Then we move on to the next speaker, but only after a few cleanings. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Jong of D66. Oh, he's skipping his turn. The other members had not applied. Then we'll get a suspension. I'll see how long the Secretary of State needs. Two minutes? Then I'll suspend the sitting for two minutes so we can have a look at the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	First up is the RRF motion, Chairman. This is about the European Union's Restoration Fund. This motion I can give judgment Chamber. We are already talking to fellow governments. Of course, support is important. By involving them in good time, there is no need to delay. With this motion, I note that the House also considers it important to do so in this way. Then I have a second motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	... but before you go any further, there is a question from GroenLinks, from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	I hear the Secretary of State's opinion, but I still have a question. What is the position of the Chamber in this? Because "the concept RRP must be consulted with the stakeholders." When's the Room coming up? Only when there is a final version, aligned with the regions? Should we say yes and amen? How does this relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u25	Well, of course it is not for me to comment here on the position of the Chamber itself. That is, of course, up to the Chamber. So if you think you should express an opinion on this, it is obviously up to the Chamber to consider it in procedural meetings or in plenary debates or in committee debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u26	Look, it's all about different projects. I think there's a difference between that and that. The fact that a project taking place in a given region is aligned with that region is quite natural, justified and necessary. But this operative part talks about "the concept RRP." That's the whole plan. And that overall plan must be discussed with the regions first, apparently before it comes to the Chamber. I am concerned about that, given the time that has passed. I wonder what the Secretary of State's explanation of this operative part is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u27	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u28	I'm a little surprised. I am also always trying to estimate why a question is being asked. I assume that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also considers it important for the central government, the government, to involve local authorities, especially as regards the Recovery and Resilience Facility; I say it in full before I call it a 'fund' again. Because, of course, it always concerns the regional economy; that is the case. We must ensure, both at the formation table and in the cabinet, that all these different moments intersect, so that there is no delay. As I said last night, it is not the case that this money disappears when we do not make a claim to the European Commission in the spring. So if that's Mr. Van der Lee's concern, I can take it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u29	A question is being put to Mr Van der Lee, so I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u30	I have a feeling the Secretary of State doesn't quite understand my point. Projects may be submitted. They have a regional component in any case and must therefore be discussed with the regions concerned. But then it comes together and one overall plan comes together, because there is a maximum budget available. A balance must therefore be struck between these projects. I wonder whether this motion means that this balance should be placed on the regions, or whether it is a project that affects the regions, after which a consideration is made that is submitted to Parliament. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u31	The concept of the RRP, as it is called here, with the P in mind, I imagine, is of course an addition of parts. Of course, that's what you're discussing with the regional government. I sometimes have to think about the Just Transition Fund, where I discuss the distribution of funds with regional authorities. With the territories concerned and a representation of the IPO and the VNG, I then sat in a space that was a first step in it, where the total distribution was on the table, with the corresponding part per region. I think that makes sense, too. It would be extremely artificial if, when there is a concept of RRP, you cut only that one piece out and share it with the region in question and not the rest, apart from the fact that, even if I didn't share it, they probably share it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you. The motion in part No. 521 gets judgment room. Then we move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u33	In the motion in part No. 522 the government is invited to actively engage in information and consultation on exclusion opportunities under the GPA with local authorities and to work in Brussels to ensure effective and timely implementation of the international procurement instrument. This motion I can also give judgment Chamber. The second request from the operative part, on information and consultation, I read it in a different order for "sustainable" supports the policy. With regard to the other point, it may be appropriate to bring to the attention of local authorities that this can be done in the context of better procurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u34	The motion in part No. 522 also gets judgment Chamber. That brings us to the end of this two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u35	I shall suspend the sitting until the next debate begins. That is a debate with Secretary of State Knops of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and that is about the Act implementing regulation identity cards.
