ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35600, Amendment of the Nature Protection Act and the Environment Act (Nuclearness Reduction and Natural Improvement). A number of documents may be included on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and her officials for all the time and effort they have made to leave us well informed here today. I'm going to have a bit of a philosophical kick-off, because I expect that after that we will mainly go into technique and depth. Martin Drenthen, environmental philosopher, has written a lovely book that I show here, Hek, about the relationship between man and nature. He describes on the basis of the concept of fence, separation, how man has become increasingly dominant on earth. Since the first settlements we have been building fences, to protect have and well from wild nature. And so predatory and voracious animals could be kept out of the vicinity of the villages. That hasn't been a crazy strategy either, because for a species that is made up of small numbers and could poorly defend itself against bears and wolves, such a fence helps to bring you safely to the future. That fence was a success. The numbers of people and the associated agricultural areas are growing. Over time, this has brought more and more space within that conceptual fence, to the moment where we are now, a situation that is completely reversed from how it ever began. The wilderness is limited to very small areas, still with a fence around it, but no longer to protect man but to protect that nature from the advancing man. In the Netherlands, it has often been less fertile land that has been granted this nature status and that is now within that fence. In fact, especially areas which were poorly suited to agriculture have been able to escape human hunger for a long time because of this quality. That is precisely why we are standing here today, because the Netherlands is rich in natural areas that are susceptible to fertilization, or nitrogen, for which we are standing here. It is also clear that without that conceptual fence the remaining wilderness in the Netherlands would no longer exist. Because beyond these Natura 2000 sites, biodiversity has fallen dramatically in the last century. We are only at 15% of the original biodiversity in the Netherlands and in the city and the agricultural area is decreasing every year. All in all, it's not a pretty picture. At the same time, I've been more hopeful than I've been for a long time. A number of important trends ripen the minds to choose a robust quality of nature, so that it may exist not only separately but perhaps also together with man. The first trend, such as the fence, is that even that fence of nature protection does not appear to be sufficiently protected to prevent deterioration in biodiversity. Not only the size of the habitats behind that fence is insufficient to allow healthy populations to exist, but also the environmental quality behind the fence is poor. Over the fence all kinds of pollutants enter nature reserves, such as nitrogen compounds or agricultural poison, and so suffocate our beautiful nature. And under the fence we pump water out so fast that the plants and animals in the natural areas sometimes literally die of thirst. That what happens outside the fence is therefore very important for the resilience of nature within that fence. But, and now it's really getting interesting, even more and more people outside the fence are suffering from that decline of nature in those areas. After all, now that that quality is left behind, builders have a lot of trouble with that. The permit thresholds, internal netting and the development reserve from today's bill are nice tools to solve the current problems, but they are completely insufficient to realize these extensive Dutch building ambitions. And then the farmers: not only does nature suffer from our land use outside the fences. The resilience and profitability of our land are falling very quickly. If farmers do not know how to change quickly even under this existential pressure, the children of our farmers will have no land to farm in half a century or a whole century. Not because of government policy or restrictive rules, but because the way we work today is agriculturally unsustainable, the soil is becoming increasingly depleted due to lack of water, carbon, worms and air, and the soil is polluted by nitrogen, agriculture and pesticides, or even collapsed because of large vehicles. I know that these pressing issues are being looked at in this Chamber from different perspectives. First of all, there is the vision of nature as a treasure child for man. Man is dominant in this and nature is there to serve man. We must take good care of the land, but eventually the wilderness and nature are there to render for man. This vision has been and may still be very dominant. This will also be reflected today in the input of a number or perhaps even many colleagues. But a steward without contradiction turns out to be in practice a predator in which the capital of nature or of subsequent generations is not preserved. Then there is another vision, which states that every being on earth is equivalent to the human being and has intrinsic right to exist, regardless of whether it is an individual or a group. This vision becomes more dominant in society, but also causes burden in the domain of nature conservation. For how do you weigh the importance of large grazers against the importance of bird species, which both fight for priority in the Oostvaardersplassen? Finally, there is the vision of people who attach to a robust and powerful ecosystem. They look at nature at system level and accept that profits are made through land and nature exploitation provided that the ecosystem as a whole is and remains sound and robust. With the strong focus on the system one may lose sight of the human dimension. For example, every vision has advantages and disadvantages. With the last two visions, my party feels the most related and certainly not the only one in this Chamber. Our main concern at this moment is the destruction of our ecosystem. With more than 40% of the species in the Netherlands under pressure, the ecosystem as a whole in the Netherlands is under enormous pressure. Although it is my analysis that the vision that nature is at the service of man has become too dominant, therefore suffers from excesses and can therefore no longer live up to the promise of conservation of ecosystems, I believe Drenthen shows convincingly that all these visions, which fight each other to fire and to sword, are also important today to achieve a more tolerant attitude towards nature. Farmers can only allow large-scale nature development in their business operations if society supports them lovingly. That is the question with the policy ahead: are we going to do that? So it is not a question of what is the right vision, but above all of how best to prevent those excesses, which are linked to each vision. The challenge for the upcoming cabinet, as well as for this minister, is to develop fair policies that balance different visions. The following questions are of great importance to my group today. Does this bill now create a resilient nature within the proverbial fence of Natura 2000 sites? Does this bill increase biodiversity and respect for natural processes outside? And do this bill and the whole package around it support farmers, citizens and outsiders to speed up the change that is needed, in particular the shift to circular and fully sustainable livestock farming? Then we come to the following points. My group is very concerned about the legal sustainability of the bill. As far as I am concerned, legal sustainability and predictable policies for farmers are two sides of the same coin. A strong long-term policy is needed to speak of credibility in the light of the Birds and Habitats Directives. On top of that, we must avoid any deterioration in the nature reserves, the so-called 'deterioration ban'. These are obligations to which we have committed ourselves and which are not without obligation. Mr Recourt will develop this further in his contribution, so I will only touch on the main points. The Remkes Commission has carried out an analysis which confirms that a half-life of emissions by 2030 is needed to meet the targets by 2050. In practice, in this legislative proposal, we assume a lower ambition than the Remkes Committee has proposed. In this way, the cabinet chooses in advance not to prevent deterioration of quality in vulnerable nature areas. Can the Minister, therefore, indicate how she intends to deal with this bill with the prohibition on deterioration? How is the Minister going to ensure that this ban is respected? Can she answer the question as to what happens if we do not happen by mistake, it is not entirely by accident, because we see that we are already arriving today without complying with the prohibition on deterioration and what impact that has on both agriculture and the builders in our country? Is it prepared to undertake additional activities as a Empire around particularly sensitive areas that may not suffer for another ten years from serious exceedances of critical deposition values, such as the Kampina, the Drents-Friese Wold and the Strabrecht Heide? Can she also outline how she sees this legal path after 2035? Because of course we are not ready; a quarter of the hectares are still not in a healthy state of conservation. Then reliable policy. The agricultural sector has been calling for more predictability of policies for a very long time. As far as we are concerned, the present proposal reduces this uncertainty for the sector, especially if we now take a big hit and achieve a major reduction in nitrogen in the short term. This will allow the rest of the sector sufficient time to adapt to circular livestock farming. That is important, because we are also introducing a cycle of monitoring, evaluation and adjustment, which is firmly anchored and leaves little space. I'll make that apparent. We are now starting with measures to reduce nitrogen emissions, actually last year. In 2022 we will have both the provincial plans and the monitoring system ready. In the same year, maybe in 2023, those provincial plans are final. In 2023, the first interim assessment of whether we meet the legal objective of 2025 will also be made. If not, additional measures are needed. If the provinces do not want to participate in this, then the Empire must take measures that achieve the goal. In 2028 we will set new targets for 2035. At the same time, this is also the year in which we are going to see whether we are achieving the 2030 targets. You can see, Mr President, farmers, builders and conservationists are confronted almost every year with measurements, evaluations and adjustments of packages. And to avoid any misunderstandings, we, like GroenLinks, are very much in favour of this tight monitoring. That's a good part of this package. However, we also see a great deal of margin in the proposed package of measures. In the prepackage there is 50 mol margin, in the stables 10 and we do not know in advance what the nature restoration measures, we know about the PAS, yield. My question to the Minister is therefore how, if the cabinet wants to bring peace to the agricultural sector, it is going to ensure that the overall package already has sufficient effect in the short term. Our group, and also the CDA, for example, would like to see less uncertainty in that package in the short term, and that is because the cabinet is going to work more and more quickly on the buy-out of peak drivers. Is the Minister prepared to speed up the purchase and relocation of peak loaders? Does it see the possibility of giving extra priority to those very vulnerable natural areas which cannot wait another ten years and thus comply with the prohibition on deterioration? Then the PAS detectors. Like the other groups, GroenLinks can live well with a separate programme for the legalisation of the PAS. At the same time, we also see that, if they are implemented too quickly or simply, farmers can get the signal that they are legalized, and then three years later they have to be relocated or bought out. We consider this to be a very undesirable situation from a reliable government towards the farmers. It is very likely that among the 6,000 companies we legalize, there will also be peak loaders. We therefore believe, from the perspective of a reliable government, that there should be a separate element in the PAS programme, in which it is not legalization of the PAS-report, but buy-out, relocation or transition to sustainable business operations, so that farmers are not kept on a leash and have clarity quickly. Then long-term cooperation. How exactly does the cabinet organise towards the long term the achievement of a healthy conservation status in 100% of those hectares? My group notes that after 2028 the policy is still completely inadequate in its implementation. The cabinet refers to the formulation of new objectives, new packages of measures, the agricultural vision and an agricultural agreement in order to launch the desired movement, but ignores, as far as we are concerned, that not only the farmers have an interest, but also the builders and the people who are looking for a home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mrs Kluit is talking about a reliable government. Which brings them in relation to the peak chargers. But let's not forget that there are provinces that are just sneaking up on the edges of the Natura 2000 sites, which add up to species. That's all happening a little out of sight. I have proof of this, too. I'm talking, for example, about the dry heath. There in the beginning we had five typical types of vascular plants. Now they've been squeezed up to 12. You're gonna have to be wrong as a farmer. It takes place on the edges of Natura 2000 sites. This will put a shadow over your hexagon of farmland. How reliable is the government then if you're doing this kind of "sorry," Mr. Chairman, I have to say, "stuff tricks" at a farmer's house?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u5	As far as I am concerned, the Minister has answered this question very well. They didn't squeeze it in. These hectares were part of the programme that is already running. I don't think I'm in this anymore than Mrs Faber. Not only farmers need a reliable government, but also nature needs a reliable government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u7	I find it a little too easy to shift the answer to the Minister. These are just facts. They're from Wageningen University. It's just been squeezed in. It's just that extra nature has been squeezed in. Then you shouldn't say: the Minister says there's been no addition. There's just been squeezed in. I'll talk to the Minister about that later. How do you look at that sneak-up of multiple species on the edges of Natura 2000 sites? It just happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u8	First of all, that's not sneaky. Decisions are taken in provinces and elsewhere to develop, protect and preserve nature. These are all processes in which councils, states and we as parliaments are involved. We sign it by a majority. Of course, it is not the case that a reliable government means that nothing ever changes. It is important, however, that you are transparent about what changes are coming and that you give those people sufficient time to adapt. That's exactly the point I'm making.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you. I suggest we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u10	My group therefore notes that this policy is inadequate after 2028 and that a broad perspective is needed there. My group also sees that society is not sitting still here. There are cautious steps between different stakeholders who would very much like to reflect together on a robust long-term approach. Then I'm talking about Building the Netherlands, VNO-NCW, nature and environmental organisations, Natural Monuments and also LTO Netherlands. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance hears from the relevant parties that they would like to have the support of the Minister. My question is whether the Minister would like to facilitate this process so that a directional agreement can be reached before the summer with which the incoming cabinet is working. Finally, nitrogen on agricultural parcels. It is not only good to prevent this, but it is also good to record what amounts to the lots. About 50% of what's being filed is still streaming. The Minister stated in his reply that there are possibilities in terms of requirements in environmental plans, but that a standard should be set. The specific question is whether the Minister wishes to develop this standard and incorporate it as a general measure under the Environmental Act as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you. Your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u12	Can I put three more sentences to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u13	Go ahead. You registered it yourself, so I'm just reminding you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u14	This is exactly the three minutes I called yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u15	I didn't get a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u16	For monitoring and enforcement, I refer briefly to the input of my colleague from the SP. Finally. It is important for GroenLinks that this bill not only takes the first steps for this robust approach, but also that we know how fast we have to run and what our final destination is. It is important that we not only walk one way, but also know exactly which routes we are going to walk. As far as we are concerned, the key question is how much space will be created by this bill for biodiversity in and outside the nature reserves throughout the Netherlands and how much loving support can farmers see?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mrs. Kluit is breaking a lance for nature. That is, of course, very commendable. She says: "Nature and ecosystems are under pressure. Man also has a factor in this." How can GroenLinks save nature, if they keep the borders open and 100,000 people a year? That puts pressure on nature. So what are you going to choose? Do you choose open borders or do you choose nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u19	I don't think you need to make this choice at all. You can very well place a lot more people in an urban area without causing problems in nature. There are a lot of plans for nature including building in the city, so as far as we are concerned, biodiversity can increase enormously. Biodiversity in the outside world can also increase enormously. I love people. I'm in a left-wing party, so the more the merrier. The more diverse they are, the better it's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u20	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u21	I love people a lot, too, but twenty people in my house are a bit much to me. Anyway, anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u23	It's messing me up!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u24	You can stop, too. Why don't you sit down again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mrs Kluit points out that nature and people go hand in hand. Certain heath species can't stand the presence of humans at all, but they are kept up. Then how are we gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u26	Finally, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u27	I think that the question about supplementing is a bit of a repetition of moves. So I'm not gonna go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u28	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u29	There are certainly natural areas that do not tolerate the presence of people. Nature organisations are very capable of ensuring that people get there at least or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u30	I'm being provoked to respond to all sorts of things. I also love people The SGP stands for building, saving and so on. But now my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u31	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u32	I just got up from the next one. On the subject of legalisation, Mrs Kluit mentioned the peak loaders. They should be treated in such a way that this might not be addressed in legalising. But the peak loaders also have a number of people who acted in good faith. My question to Mrs Kluit is: will she ask the Minister to withdraw what is in the law on legalisation halfway through?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u33	I fully agree with you that there was good faith there. My point is more: even if you acted in good faith, it may be that the location where you sit is not suitable to stay. As a result, the goals in the accompanying nature reserve become unachievable. To help build and develop nature in the Netherlands, the only logical conclusion is that the company is being relocated or has much less impact in other ways. I think it is a testament to a trustworthy government that these companies have preferred to hear this within six months or a year. In this way they can adapt rather than continue to invest in their current location for another five years and then hear: we have legalized you, but it is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u34	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u35	On the contrary, the government is taking responsibility for correcting what has gone terribly wrong, namely legalisation. It would be very unreliable if one part, for example the peak loaders, were to be said: you are still in a awkward place, so we are not going to apply the legalisation that we now have in the law. I think you should say, "Go get this legalization going," but use other tools to get someone out of here. Does Mrs Kluit agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mrs. Kluit, finally. Just yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u37	No, I'd say. Then we don't agree on that. I think that a reliable government is right to send a clear message, and I am not saying that the farmers in question should be left to their fate. My point is that these farmers must be lovingly helped to find a new future, elsewhere or in another profession. Those two things get mixed up all the time. I do not believe that it is fair to say to those companies: we are going to legalize you now, and then to stop you. We may have something else in mind, but if you agree with me that we should be fair to those farmers and that they should get a good package, you will find me entirely on your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Schalk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u39	Of course, I am very curious about the Minister's answer to these questions, but I would say: do one thing and do the other. Honesty is also starting legalization and talking to them about "maybe you should move to another place."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Janssen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. Farmers want farmers, builders want to build and citizens want to live in a house. And not after another year of waiting for more Hague meetings, but now. At the same time, our nature requires us to stop further deterioration and to improve it significantly. All this without further discussion and discussion as to whether the good is good enough and whether we should not wait for the better. No longer stalling, but starting now, that's what the SP wants to make possible. I am convinced that is what we are doing with this bill. The law has been considerably improved by amendments compared to the original cabinet proposal. The nitrogen reduction has significantly increased compared to what the government wanted, towards a 50% reduction in nitrogen emissions by 2035. By 2025, 40% of nature sensitive to nitrogen must be healthy again. This is 50% by 2030 and 74% by 2035. These are result obligations, legally anchored. In addition, it is also agreed that this is a bonus for us, that thousands of additional places for older people are being created in health care neighbourhoods. It will be allocated 20% extra budget. This gives an additional advantage that older people who want to move to a small-scale care neighbourhood, release homes in the same neighbourhood for young people. I think it is commendable to the Minister that she has embraced the far-reaching improvements to the original bill and has also convinced its coalition parties of the need for these improvements. In preparing this debate, I have tried to calculate how much time I have spent as a deputy to discuss the Approach to Nitrogen Programme. I tried, but I gave up. It was very, very much. If I add to that the number of hours of official preparation involved, I can only come to one conclusion: never again. Moreover, the judgment of the Council of State of Wednesday 29 May 2019 on the PAS could not be a thunderbolt in the clear sky. The Council of State had expressed clear reservations about the legal sustainability of the law years ago, as did the Committee on Environmental Impact Assessment and the Advisory Committee on Acceleration and Improvement of Decision-making Infrastructure. The judgment of the Council of State of Wednesday 29 May 2019 on the PAS was, briefly in my own words, clear: legal we live on the puff of nitrogen; may not. It was that simple: a much too complicated structure built on quicksand, legislation for the Land of Ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr Recourt on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u43	The Council of State has said something else, namely that there must be no deterioration. You have to make a real effort to keep at least the level. You have to move forward. Now we have had the Remkes report, as I shall just mention briefly. The cabinet's doing a little less. How does the SP estimate that second element, so when the judge goes back to court, the Council of State says "well, I still see a lot of areas where there is decline"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u44	I come to that in the rest of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u45	Maybe we should wait and see if we can interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u46	I have now had two and a half pages of my speech. Perhaps I will serve Mr Recourt in the rest of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u47	Let us give Mr Janssen the opportunity to make his point. After that, you can be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. The Council of State, the Commission and the VVBI Commission had expressly warned. However, this Chamber also agreed to the legislative proposal for a Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen in 2014. I do not do that with a pointing finger, because it can happen to us as SP, but I have to say that PVV, VVD, PvdA, CDA, Christian Union and D66 voted in favour at that time. GroenLinks, the Animal Party, 50PLUS, the Independent States Group and the SP voted against. Then we can blame the messenger, in this case Mr Vollenbroek, who, with his MOB, raised this matter with the judge, but I think we should look at ourselves in particular when the judge says: that law was not right. I welcome this kind of counterpower, because that forces us to make up for our laws and not to get over things too easily. Mr. Chairman. I get back to my experience from time to time, because that helps a lot. As a deputy, I was responsible for licensing, monitoring and enforcement for the most risky companies in the South-Holland industrial areas. All these companies came to me with one question: be clear, be consistent and be predictable. That's no different in the nitrogen file. The emergency solution of the Emergency Law approach to nitrogen in December 2019 was also not a solution for the SP. The law brought more uncertainty, more inconsistency and more unpredictability. What was missing, above all, is what is indispensable to regain confidence in the future, as Mrs Kluit said, namely predictability. And for predictability you need a clear legal framework, a sustainable framework. This will create long-term and, certainly important, short-term security, so that you can get back to work. As a deputy, it was my way of making important court rulings or reports from, for example, the Security Research Council a countermould. That is an effective way to learn from what has gone wrong and to avoid making the same mistakes in subsequent decisions. I did the same for myself for the PAS. What should the legal framework be in order to achieve legally sustainable implementation? I can be brief about the bill of law that was sent to the Lower House by the Cabinet. This could not have been supported in the same way. The amendments were necessary to change that. With the bill, which has been amended and improved by the SP, there is now a proposal that has been given a serious makeover. I would like to say to Mr Recourt that nitrogen emissions are regularly reduced by law, housing is rising, and nature is receiving much-needed protection, including from decline. The contramal of the PAS shows how this has taken shape in practice. Effort obligations have been replaced by performance obligations. No strings attached. There is no expenditure that is not proven to have been saved first. Purposes and timings of realization are laid down in a mandatory manner. In my opinion, this has taken the sting out of the legal problem of the PAS. Result obligations combined with continuous monitoring of results are the basis of the legal sustainability of this law. The system is clear. If targets are not met at the specified time, additional measures will be taken in time as much as necessary to achieve them in time. Target and time are set. Those buttons are not turned, so no less and no later. I would like to get a clear confirmation from the Minister that this is the way this bill should work. This is also a crucial issue for the SP in terms of legal sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr. Koffeman of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mr Janssen rightly says that goal and time are fixed, but that is in a very distant future: 50% in 2035. What intermediate settleable targets are important to Mr. Janssen? Suppose this debate shows that this bill can never stand up at the Council of State. Is there still room for the SP to vote against this law, or has SP already made agreements in other areas that justify leaving it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u51	I do not think that the Council of State will rule on this law during this debate. That will really have to be proved in practice after that. In view of what I have just said about legal sustainability, I cannot imagine that there is anything else I would have overlooked. It's possible, but I'd like to hear it. As I experience it with my experience and with my efforts, this law is legally sustainable in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u52	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u53	But does Mr Janssen think that it is acceptable to plan so far ahead when we need results in a much shorter period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u54	In my view, I have just referred to the environmental performance obligations that have already been required in previous years. However, you have to set a longer-term goal somewhere. That is why I am referring to this continuous monitoring. You have to keep your finger on the wrist, to prevent you from being empty-handed in long-term programs, all of which tend to book the results before the end, if you haven't gotten the results at the end. I'll say something about that later. And that in long-term programs there is a tendency to record the results before the end, I say from my administrative experience. We should therefore be very keen on this interim monitoring and the interim results. And if it's not enough: add up!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u55	But you're gonna come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u56	I'll get to that too, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u58	I have a question that is a bit along the lines of this. I agree with Mr Janssen that monitoring and adjustment systems are tight. But it brings peace to society at a time when there is also a credible package of measures underneath it. Unlike the PAS, we don't spend it in advance, but if the measures do not deliver enough, the Netherlands will of course remain silent for a long time. So can Mr Janssen indicate how he looks at the measures? How can we, in his view, speed up quickly enough not to remain in the same impasse?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u59	If the current source measures do not deliver enough, measures must be taken. That's how simple the system works for me. That is why it is so important that both the time and the goal are fixed. So if monitoring shows that it doesn't deliver enough, then there should be measures. I am not staring blindly at the measures that are now in place. They're gonna have to prove themselves. And if they prove to be too little, then there will have to be more. That's a very simple system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u60	At the same time, there is a strong call from all kinds of studies to look more closely at implementation in practice. And those measures will determine what will eventually be achieved by this law. So I challenge Mr Janssen after all. Does he think that there are measures in the package that we should use more quickly? And are there any other measures that we might need to slow down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u61	(NL) Mr President, I have a few sentences to speak very extensively about the implementation, because it is also crucial for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u62	We'll get to that. I suggest that, in view of the time, we ask you to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr. Chairman. Then I know that there are comments to be made on the performance obligations that have been laid down. Are they ambitious enough? My opinion is that they are certain as a basis. However, I say honestly: "more and faster" may also be mine in the future, but "less and later" may not be. I therefore want the Minister's commitment that if results are achieved more quickly than expected in the future, there will be no reason to scale down measures because we have that deadline. We should not act like a municipality that is called after four weeks by a citizen, where the municipality says: yes, but it is allowed to take us six weeks. That is not the intention: it may be faster. That's a widespread misunderstanding. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, what has now been set as an obligation to achieve results is a solid basis that provides sustainability and predictability, especially for the start in the short term. We have to get back to work, and that's how I think we can do it. No excuses, no P.A.S.P.S., no popping. In this way the pursuit of the better is not the enemy of the good that is now being secured, and can and must start quickly. Farmers need to be able to rebuild farmers, builders need to be able to build and citizens need to be able to live in a house. And nature needs to be improved. But the implementation is crucial to maintain the legal structure and achieve the improvement of nature. I said earlier that I see a number of pitfalls for successful execution, which I am concerned about. They're soluble, but it's not gonna happen by itself. First of all, I see the problem that too much is being looked at only one sector, that of farmers. There will have to be a contribution from all sectors, not only from farmers, but also from industry and mobility. No sector will be allowed to hide and every sector will have to deliver, not just on paper, but also on real delivery. It is the sum total of all sectors that have to make a difference. There too, as far as I am concerned, efforts are not enough. So I don't want voluntary agreements, but sanctioned, binding agreements. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. And when will the concrete plan of action come? Such a plan is an absolute condition for this law to succeed. Before you know it, we're chasing the facts, and we can't let that happen. That plan is better today than tomorrow, I'd say. But when will it be there? "For the summer" would, as far as I am concerned, be about the limit. Mr. Chairman. I am also deeply concerned about the implementation capacity, the quality of implementation and its uniformity among public authorities in general, while this is also crucial for the success of nitrogen policy. Many governments focus on policy but no longer on implementation. I refer, for example, to the management of licences. Too often we see that once a permit has been granted by the competent authority, nothing happens to it after that, and that is a missed opportunity. Because active permit management can help solve the problem of nitrogen. Can the Minister tell us to what extent it has eyes, to what extent competent authorities, i.e. the Empire, municipalities, provinces and water authorities, have an insight into the current state of their permits? Because my impression is that there is still much to improve. I also call for attention to be paid to the quality and capacity of the environmental services, but also to the NVWA. If more people are needed in environmental services and NVWA in order to properly implement supervision and enforcement, more people need to come. Risk-driven supervision should not be hampered by a lack of capacity in the supervisory authority. Does the Minister share this view? What is it going to do to ensure that licences are actually up-to-date with the competent authorities, so that we know what we are talking about and that the use of powers through active licensing is used to influence where this can be done? Mr. Chairman. But the biggest threat I see, besides the plan of action for this law, is the netting. There is no uniformity in the implementation. Something else is being done in each province, and it is actually being used or improperly. That's a big legal risk. As far as I am concerned, therefore, a set of sharp national regulations must be put in place quickly. Of course, this must be done in consultation with the provinces, but it must be done. When I hear that Mr Vollenbroek is complimentary on, for example, the DCMR implementation, I say this with some caution, because I have been President of it for eight years up to 2019, I say to the Minister: go there and see what you can learn from it. Can that be the one set? It must end very quickly with self-invented reference levels based on vague regulations in provinces. When will this set of sharp national regulations be introduced? Mr. Chairman. Everywhere there's money to be made, fraud is lurking. It's no different with nitrogen duties. I'm very worried about that, because I already see desks coming up all over the place promising golden mountains to farmers. It is therefore urgent to consider how fraud can be detected and, above all, prevented. Where there is fraud with nitrogen rights, it must be quickly detected and prosecuted. The social consequences of nitrogen fraud can be immense. My proposal is therefore that these risks should be quickly identified. Is the Minister prepared to request an analysis and an opinion? I also make an immediate suggestion: a coordinating body has been set up in the Netherlands, the Strategic Environment Chamber (SMK), chaired by the Chief Public Prosecutor, and that includes the inspector-general of the ILT and NVWA, the portfolio holder of environmental crime is in it on behalf of the national police force, and there is a representative of the national authorities. I myself was allowed to be a member of that Strategic Environment Chamber for a number of years, and I know how much information comes up there that is simply not available to the competent authorities, because it comes from judicial intelligence channels. The Minister cannot order, but will she pass on this wish to the SMK? If she does, that wish will not come unexpectedly from the SMK. Mr. Chairman. Whoever pays, decides. That is my next concern in the implementation of this bill. It must not be the case that young farmers and start-ups no longer have a chance to take over a business. It should not be possible to block innovative developments that are desirable and necessary by buying up nitrogen duties. It must not be the case that rich provinces are going to determine development in provinces with less financial resources. The development of one must not be the degeneration of the other. Previous actions by the province of Noord-Brabant, which bought rights in Noord-Holland and Drenthe to realize Moerdijk, are a textbook example of how not to. They also apologized for that. How is the Minister going to ensure that the general interest is maintained over and above its own interests? Because there must also be a perspective for young, innovative farmers. As far as I am concerned, it should not become the norm, but as far as I am concerned, the size of the family farm is for farmers. Does the Minister share this view? In general, attention should be paid to the position of farmers, especially now that they have an important role to play in the success of nitrogen policy. There must therefore be a new perspective for farmers. The government will have to have an important steering role in this. In a report from March 2019, Earth, farmer and consumer deserve better, the SP wrote a number of solutions, as it sees for itself. As far as we are concerned, they are also in support of all the initiatives which lead to an agriculture based on the capacity of soil, water, air and nature, which has capacity for people and which does justice to farmers, so that they can earn a well-earned income. Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk about the role of administrative implementation. I just referred to it. Long-term programmes tend to produce results at the end of the programme and then you'll be left empty-handed if it doesn't work out. You don't have to. That is why monitoring must be very sharp and be able to be adjusted in good time. It must always be clear when and when measures will be taken. This means that we must now regulate not only short-term measures, but also those that should have a longer-term impact. I am not going to use roadmaps and roadmaps anymore, because they are gradually synonyms for 'not very successful'. But there must be something to show when any measure, even in the longer term, will have an effect, so that you can also adjust it if necessary. Then anyone can keep their finger on the wrist. This also means that you can clearly signal the decline that Mr Recourt asked for. If the system that we now have shows that there is a decline, then you will have to supplement the measures to ensure that there is no such decline, precisely in order to ensure legal sustainability, because that is what this is about. Mr President, concluding. The Netherlands has been locked up by the Programme Approach Nitrogen and the Netherlands now has to get off the lock quickly. I believe that this law provides a solid legal basis, provided that it is properly implemented. I have mentioned a number of points. As far as we are concerned, we need to start building more affordable homes right now and we need to invest heavily in preventing decline and protecting and strengthening our nature. That is why I asked for a concrete plan of action, which must now be put forward very quickly. We need to tackle fraud involving nitrogen rights. Mr President, two more sentences, or three. The system of the law is clear. If the targets are not to be met, the measures must be scaled up in time and as much as necessary to achieve the objectives. No less and no later, but make sure we make it. After all, that is what is laid down in the law. The sum total of all this means that I can be positive about the law now before us in amended form and that I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u65	Mr President, you have already turned on the time, but I am not yet ready. Mr President! Good. Well, I guess I better get started. Mr. Chairman. The acquisition by the government of Wageningen's municipal agricultural school in 1876 was the beginning of national agricultural education. It was the first step of cooperation between farmers, science and education, resulting in an agricultural sector that developed into an international top level and a municipal agricultural school that grew into a world-famous university. The agricultural sector flourished as an economic factor accounting for 95 billion in agricultural exports and directly and indirectly created 600,000 jobs. Instead of cherishing this sector, it seems that a large part of them have to clear the ground. Apparently the love for the farmer is over and the ideological and economic beacons are being opposed. It'll all have to be greener and more diverse. In order to get the citizens across the line, the government is putting its trump card into nature. 'Cause it would be bad with that nature. Or has nature become a toy of politics? Mr. Chairman. The focus is mainly on nitrogen-sensitive nature in the protected Natura 2000 sites. There would be too much nitrogen, which has its impact on the biodiversity desired there, which only thrives on low soil. They want to preserve and develop at all costs. This time, the corresponding budget is as much as EUR 5 billion plus additional EUR 100 million per year up to 2030, for a legislative proposal to maintain Natura 2000 sites through further nitrogen reduction. For example, the Minister wants to bind the Netherlands by bringing at least 50% of the hectares in the Natura 2000 sites below the so-called critical deposition value by 2030. A task that calls for a system that can determine nitrogen emissions and depositions. And that's what happened: a system that is horribly complex and incomplete, of a government that groves in withholding information, measuring with different sizes, shortages of measurements and calculation models that work with great uncertainties. A few points of uncertainty. The uncertainty of emissions for total ammonia is estimated at 17% and for nitrogen oxide at 15%. So that's all going into the system. I always say mess in, mess out, that can never go well. The RIVM indicates that the AERIUS model, which makes calculations of the national image and the image by sector, is accompanied by uncertainties of 30%. How serious do you have to take the math with two decimal places? According to RIVM, this is not so relevant, because it is a policy choice, and that also applies to an increase of 0.05 mols per hectare per year. This reminds me of the policy choice that burning down trees in a biomass plant is sustainable and that windmills would be good for the environment. You can't really take that seriously. Mr. Chairman. The Hordijk and Remkes committees overlook the lack of measurements, but the RIVM is not eager for measurements at all. Of course, you shouldn't be confronted with any failure. It indicates in letter report 2019-0057 that compliance with the legislation by means of measurements is not feasible, for example because of high costs and lead time. The results of measurements are not well manageable and therefore less suitable for the implementation of legislation. Measurement results cannot therefore have independent legal status in the assessment process. In short, RIVM goes for its own calculation models and thus gets the monopoly on determining emissions and depositions using its own simulation model. A legal basis to put aside supposedly invalid measurements seems to be a matter of time. For example, in the letter report, I quote: 'From the environment, measurements are sometimes made to question calculation results; there is no legislation on the basis of which invalid measurements can be ignored in this situation'. This may explain why the European policy model LOTOS-EUROS is not being seriously examined instead of the OPS model currently in use, whereas other European countries count on it. Why is the Netherlands not working with LOTOS-EUROS? I'd like a response from the Minister. After RIVM has thrown the catering and non-essential shops into the coronaslot, RIVM again plays a role. Now there is a risk of a nitrogen lock for many farms, often family farms that have passed from father to son for generations. Due to the patchwork of nitrogen-sensitive nature reserves, more than half of the farmers are on the edge of a Natura 2000 site. The sometimes tiny areas can lock up your operations. The identification of small areas is in any case a question of difficulty, because on such a stamp there are often different types that can never thrive there with all of them. However, farmers have made every effort to keep up their efforts and have invested heavily, often accompanied by large debts. They make them vulnerable, so that they can become just a prey of the government, which attracts the nitrogen noose ever tighter. A little out of sight, at local level, provinces diligently sign additional search areas for nature on the habitat map in AERIUS. These simply count in the permit path as an area where a nitrogen-sensitive habitat occurs, unless it is found that there is no nitrogen-sensitive habitat. I would like to add some nitrogen-sensitive nature on the edges of the Natura 2000 sites. If you are unlucky and are close to such an edge, your soil can just get the status of a nitrogen-sensitive hexagon in the calculation model of AERIUS and you become a peak loader that will stand on the nomination for clean-up and netting. An example. The Gelderland Foodvalley area west of the Veluwe is seen as a cross-over region of the Randstad for homes and businesses. It is striking that precisely there the province of Gelderland has created many peak loads. There's a good chance these peak chargers will soon get a subsidised coach from the province of Gelderland at the kitchen table to talk you out of your company. It's like communist China; that's where you get a visit from those village elders who come to tell you what to do. With the cleaning of farms, there is a shift in emissions from nitrogen in the form of ammonia to nitrogen in the form of nitrogen oxide. But this exchange of different types of nitrogen compounds is not without consequences. This exchange is primarily bad for public health; the fine dust factor is increasing significantly. But apparently that doesn't matter right now. Secondly, what about the agreed national emission ceiling NEC? Unlike ammonia, nitrogen oxide already exceeds the emission ceiling of the Gothenburg Protocol by nearly 37%. In addition, licences are often lacking in industry. This may explain why RIVM does not determine the volume of emissions from industry on the basis of permits, but rather on the basis of the emissions declared by industry itself in the annual environmental reports, while the agricultural sector is completely tied up. It all smells like randomness. Mr. Chairman. One of the sectors that buys bacon is the construction sector. The housing shortage is enormous and is fueled by population growth, which is mainly due to mass immigration. And it goes on and on, even in times of corona. Apparently, the increasing population pressure doesn't put pressure on nature. Building the Netherlands recently indicated that they want to build 1 million homes until 2030, half of which in the Randstad. The chairman of Bouwend Nederland, Maxime Verhagen, indicates that building in green has the advantage of being built industrially at a high rate. But you can't build against mass immigration. Those boundaries, they have to be closed first. Building the Netherlands may be exempted by this bill or for temporary nitrogen emissions, it does not have the coveted land to stamp 1 million homes out of the ground. This in contrast to the agricultural sector, which does have a lot of land and murw is patted by the political friends of Building Netherlands. And with the sitting political cabal, which shields with a corrupt model, it is difficult for the farmers to do business. The state of species present, habitat types and the contribution of Natura 2000 sites to conservation in this respect shall be reported. There is a report for European use and for national use. According to the national reporting, only 11% of the nitrogen-sensitive habitat types, which together have a total area of about 43%, would be in favourable condition. But if things are so bad with this Dutch nature, why hasn't the Minister gotten on with Brussels? After all, the Minister must report to the European Commission. And that also happens, but not with the national reporting with which the national agenda is rolled out; it is done through the so-called Standard Data Forms, abbreviated SDF. On the basis of the SDF, the European Commission assesses whether Member States comply with the Habitats Directives. This also includes the state of the nitrogen-sensitive nature. Here too, there is arbitrariness. The European Commission notes that Member States do not report uniformly. It is striking, for example, that Germany stripes away species for small habitats, because they understand that many species cannot thrive on a small part. This is in contrast to the Netherlands: all kinds of stamps are arranged here, which cannot thrive. So there is still a certain direction in that, a steering mechanism. It is striking that the Dutch argument concerning the SDF is not made public. If you start looking and calculating the information available from, among other things, Wageningen University and you calculate and divide the area of the nitrogen-sensitive nature into hectares based on the conservation status through the EU coding, it appears that 45% of the area of the nitrogen-sensitive nature is in excellent conservation condition, 31% is in good condition and 23.5% in moderate to poor condition. You could say that the ultimate goal of the nitrogen law has already been achieved at this time. In total, 76% of the area of nitrogen-sensitive nature is in a good or excellent conservation state. But because the Minister uses stricter definitions than Brussels, an image is created that things would go badly with nature. The Minister is worse than Brussels. Why is the justification of the reports to Brussels on SDF not shared and made public? Is the Minister prepared to provide them as soon as possible, preferably immediately, so that this Chamber can be clear about what we have to decide? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. There's no nitrogen problem. By constantly creating new nitrogen-sensitive areas, including tiny areas, with a huge impact, a problem is deliberately created on paper. And this is what the government wants to spend over 5 billion euros on. It's just a disgrace. The political elite have long ceased to cherish the farmers, but they drop them hard. They want to get rid of family farming, but instead of telling the honest story, a hard-to-understand construction has been built to secretly roll out the political agenda that is full of green tyranny and scaling. We are currently seeing this in other sectors. Small catering entrepreneurs are pushed into the abyss, but the McDonald's of this time are still going crazy. That's the same for the little shopkeepers. Big guys like bol.com and Amazon take over their customers. Mr. Chairman. You should not be surprised when, within ten years, state farms à la sovchozen rise in the Dutch landscape where farmers can only work in the service of the State. And we shouldn't want that. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u67	Can Mrs Faber indicate where she sees evidence for all the intent she has just appointed? I find it difficult, given the words of our President at the start of this day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u68	So you're asking me why I base myself on the fact that everything is going well with nature? Is that what you mean? You are now asking a very vague question. I've said so much. I have talked about the emission ceilings, about deposition and so on. So what do you want to know about me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u70	That there is a deliberate policy to make life impossible for farmers, while I think you know that I am not a coalition member, and the cabinet is trying to weigh between different interests. It would be a good thing for you if you simply referred to it, rather than throwing all sorts of suspicions into the air without any facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u71	Well, chairman, "fact-free"... I've based all that on facts. I know that there are smart colleagues who come up with such questions, so I am prepared for this question. Firstly, a model has been rigged with great uncertainties. I referred to a 30% deviation in AERIUS. There are numbers that are even higher, but I've only mentioned the least. So I have even taken the least of the worst of it. Furthermore, the system is not transparent. I've been in touch with investigative journalists and they tell me a thing or two. Let me give you a few examples, because I wrote them down. After 3.5 years of pulling, the measurements of over 200 experiments come to the table. And that was right before a lawsuit. They had to initiate a Wob procedure to get the source code of the nitrogen model out in the open. They had to apply for interim relief in order to get the full package of RIVM emission dates out in the open. Several versions of the nature maps and habitat maps in the calculation model have not been made public. Only those of 2019 and 2020 are online, while the rest is simply withheld. That's just weird. Why is there no transparency? Why isn't the government releasing the support of SDF?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u73	Why is it so mysterious? If you're withholding business, it's not good. 'Cause if you're doing the right thing, you're opening up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u74	Mrs. Kluit, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u75	I do not hear any indication here that this is a set-up or coercion, so I would ask Mrs Faber, if she herself has trouble understanding the nuances in scientific research, not to translate that directly into all sorts of conspiracy theories but simply to stick to the facts that exist. There are uncertainties in life, there are uncertainties in models and we as politicians simply have to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u77	I'd like to respond to this for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u78	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u79	Apparently GroenLinks to roll out the green agenda has no problems at all with 30% uncertainty in the system. No problems with the emission numbers of ammonia and nitrogen oxide, among others. All that doesn't matter, all these uncertainties go into the system. These are uncertainties of 17% or 15%, none of which matters. But in the meantime we're going to count to two decimal places behind the decimal point, which doesn't seem to matter. And that it is not all transparent, yes, that is as communist as the plague, because in communism they also give no openness. So in order to roll out the green tyranny, it doesn't matter and the end justifies the means. That's obvious. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Berkhout on behalf of the Nanninga Group. Mr Berkhout will speak his maiden speech. You know what that means for the interruptions, namely that he should not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. Today, the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement Act is before us. In my group's view, this law has become a symbol of an ad hoc culture of governance that has now characterized the Rutte Cabinets. In that sense, we could even talk about the symptom of a disease. Something happens that the government has not foreseen, lobby clubs and informers are called and then a law is put together to solve a problem that certainly did not fall out of the sky. Same here. Nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement are swept up in one heap. This does not improve the quality of legislation, to put it mildly. The core of today's law is a ruling of the Council of State of May 2019. In short, it means that nitrogen emissions from activities such as farm and construction activities should not pose a threat to the conservation of Natura 2000 sites. For these Natura 2000 sites, a critical deposition value has been established which is so unfeasible that even if we were to shut down the Netherlands completely and stop all activities, one third of these sites still do not meet the standard. Even if agriculture is halved, nearly 80% of the Natura 2000 sites still exceed the established values, not to mention the nitrogen deposition that blows into our country from the North Sea and from our neighbouring countries. All this is based on calculation models. In answering questions from our group, the Minister states that the models are 'robust and reliable'. That is not the case, because the same answer shows that the models are still in full development to try to get them really to fit in with the practice. So we are talking about assumptions and models, not reality. To get back to the quality of legislation: people who do not necessarily have the best intentions with our country see a nice hook in nitrogen legislation to push through their own agenda. In concrete terms, this means that nitrogen legislation is being used to paralyse our country. Even now, the consequences of incorrect policy choices in this area are already felt. Apparently, many colleagues in this Chamber do not find it difficult to repair most of the agricultural sector or to shut down construction at the time of an outright housing crisis. Here, interests other than those of house seekers, builders and farmers are served, other than those of the Netherlands. This is where voters are raised in the politics of illusion. There's legislation that can't be explained. Legislation associated with each other during moments of panic across this Chamber. As I said, this is a pattern. This law is a framework law and the basis for further agreements and arrangements. As we know, a basis must be solid and solid. Apart from the question of what my group thinks of the unrealistic goals that the Netherlands is closing, the validity of this law is very questionable. The Minister's answer to our questions justifies the expectation that this law will be used by activists to bring one case after another to bring our country into a standstill. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would also like to highlight the supposed panacea of biomass while we are talking about laws that affect the environment, nature, landscape, biodiversity and society. What kind of smoky deception has that become? Even the House of Representatives has repented. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the people are now seeing what everyone has long warned: biomass destroys nature. There's no explanation, there's no logic. This too is the result of ill-thought-out ad hoc policy which is not being corrected by this Chamber. Well, that's a good thing to think about. Government after government stresses that we must avoid temperature increase, but we always hear that certain solutions are unnegotiable. Billions of subsidies are being burned, like biomass in power stations. Tax money is smashed on wind turbines and black panels that are so grotesque and image-defining that the Dutch landscape, the Dutch nature and habitat and its biodiversity are destroyed. If we go on like this, it won't be long before we don't recognize our country at all. That while for the many billions that are being thrown over the beam, nuclear power plants can also be built and maintained. But no, that solution is unspeakable, that solution has been deliberately ignored for years. Apparently, there are other interests there too. Sometimes it seems as if our house is on fire and people's representatives only want to put out petrol, because party programs and NGOs prescribe that that is the right way to put out a fire. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude my speech. This law is symptomatic of an administrative culture. A messy administrative culture on which, according to my group, the Dutch citizen, the one for whom we are here, has less and less influence. My group believes that the reduction of nitrogen and the improvement of nature should not be governed by one law. Therefore, we cannot vote for this law with dry eyes. I want to end with a cheerful note. My group reaches out to anyone who wants to work together so that we can come up with solutions inspired by electoral preferences, not those of unelected interest groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Berkhout. My heartfelt congratulations on your maiden speech, or in correct Dutch, your orator's debut. Allow me to outline some of your background. From 2005 to 2017, you were stock exchange and currency merchants, first at Delta Lloyd Bank and then at Amsterdam Trade Bank. At that last bank you have been from 2017 to 2019 director of trade ALM/Liquidity/FX. From March 2019 to November 2020 you worked and lived in Cyprus. You were there head Treasury & Financial Institutions at iSignthis Ltd in the capital Nicosia. You are currently working as a partner investment and treasury services at Kylla Corporate Transactions in our capital. In addition to your work, you also had a number of secondary positions in the financial world for a long time: as a member of the board of ACI - The Financial Markets Association and as chairman of the Treasury function committee at the Dutch Securities Institute. We're just gonna talk English. Politically active you first became behind the scenes as recruiter of talents for Forum for Democracy, and in 2018 in front of the scenes as a duo council member in Amsterdam. There you were sitting in the benches with Mrs. Nanninga just like you are now. Because of your departure to Cyprus, you stopped as a duo council member. On 26 October, you were first installed as a Member of Parliament, when you temporarily replaced Ms. Nanninga during her maternity and maternity leave. After leaving Mr Cliteur's Chamber, you were re-installed on 15 December, this time for fixed. Over the last four months, you have been a member of three political groups and two parties. That's another record, I think. You started out as a member of the Forum for Democracy Group. In November, you, together with some other Members of Parliament, cancelled your membership of that party and formed the Van Pareren Group. With Mrs Nanninga's return to the Chamber two weeks ago, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has changed its name to Mr Nanninga and your party is called JA21 outside this Chamber. Those initials appeal to me. About your motivation to become politically active, you once said that in addition to your expertise as an interest rate and currency trader, you also "have a very green heart" and that you "want to bet on sustainability." It is therefore no coincidence that your maiden speech is about a legislative proposal concerning the improvement of nature. Congratulations again on your maiden speech. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that I can naturally congratulate you on behalf of my fellow Members at a distance of 1.5 metres. I would ask you to take a seat for the rostrum for the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u83	I give the floor to Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations, Mr Berkhout. You're already in the Chamber, but welcome now, including maiden speech. Packed and covered up in chemical names such as nitrogen, ammonia and CO, we are talking today at the core about the unsustainability of economies of scale and efficiency-based agriculture. This is the key to the preservation and restoration of Dutch biodiversity. If we want to keep the Netherlands liveable for our children, then the helm has to change. The question before us, even today, is how? It is a hugely complex problem and the solution requires no less than a revolution in agriculture. Previous revolutions, driven by e.g. the introduction of the shift, the threshing machine or fertilizer, have had a major impact on rural and urban areas. Life in the countryside has changed considerably a number of times and has always had a major impact on life in the city. In fact, many cities and industries owe their existence. But far-reaching changes are, of course, accompanied by fear and pain, and that is also the case now. Many farmers, and with them many communities, live in constant uncertainty about their future. It's about their material future. Can we still pay off our debts to the bank? Can we still turn our business over to our kids? But at least as important is that there are also intangible concerns. Can we continue our way of life? Are we still seen and heard? This requires a government that understands the nature and necessity of change, and initiates and guides it with appropriate measures, material and intangible. This is more urgent than ever, because for the first time, the market for supply and demand is not the driving force behind the changes, but rather the cause of the crisis. The market fails to promote the intrinsic values of nature, animal welfare and, above all, our future. It is the obvious and necessary task of the government to intervene, together with, but also in the interests of, farmers and citizens. Nature is a necessary condition for our existence. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party's Group will first assess the nitrogen reduction and improvement Act on its operation. Does the law help enough to improve the quality of life in the Netherlands, and in particular the protection of biodiversity as the first link in the chain, and does this stand in the way of justice? My group will also be involved in the assessment of whether the law and the accompanying policy will adequately protect the people affected by it, first and foremost farmers, but also people in construction and consumers, for example. On both sides, my group has pressing questions. The judge had to push the government hard on its own treaty agreements on the favourable conservation status of the Natura 2000 sites. Nature conservation had also been against the short-term economic interest of this cabinet. The first question is, of course, whether the government of nature conservation is intrinsically prioritising again and will no longer allow itself to be heard by the judge in the future. The cabinet's vision of circular agriculture, laid down in the report Agriculture, Nature and Food: Valuable and Connected, deserves a compliment, but above all deserves realization. It's still future music now. It is therefore right that the Cabinet set up the Advisory Committee on Nitrogen Problems for the solution of the acute problem, which, among other things, has been realised in the report Not everything can be done everywhere. As one of the main recommendations for agriculture, this report includes a legally established guaranteed reduction of 50% nitrogen emissions, ammonia and NO, in 2030 compared to 2019, differentiated by province according to current load of nitrogen-sensitive nature areas in the region. The committee has stressed that this is the minimum task. However, the cabinet does not follow the advisory college and is far below the minimum, i.e. up to 26% reduction in emissions by 2030. That is why I ask the Minister: why is the cabinet not following its own advisor, the advisory board, and its most important advice? What interests do this require and is it legally sustainable? About the last one. Finally, the PAS was considered inappropriate by the court as an instrument for the beneficial conservation status of nitrogen-sensitive species and habitat types under the Birds and Habitats Directive, because it turned out to be a paper construct and did not sufficiently ensure that nature was effectively protected from far too high nitrogen depositions. Does this law, which is still programmatic on purpose, do what the PAS did not do or is this law a PAS-light? The ECHR and the Administrative Justice Division of the Council of State have considered that a programmed approach is legally possible. It concerns the hardness and extent of the measures. In this context, it is a good thing that the cabinet is now proposing an obligation to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u85	About the facts. I read: 2030 50%, 2035 74%, 2040 100%. That's been amended, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u86	I think we're talking about different numbers. That's what you're pointing out, too, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u87	That is the question. I think you have the original proposal on hand. That's changed in these numbers, isn't it? That is also stated in the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u88	For the sake of clarity, there is a difference between the figures presented by the Remkes Committee and the figures presented by the government. The Remkes Committee is talking about actually bringing the RDM under the RDM and the government is talking about reducing emissions. This gives rise to other percentages, but in the meantime there is still a real gap between the government's figures and the figures of the Remkes Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u89	That gap is considerably closed and is very different from the percentages you mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mr Recourt, finally. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u91	However, the level of ambition has been reduced in relation to the minimum advice. Moreover, the measures laid down for implementation in the province under the reduction for a large part are still far from being tough. In fact, are these measures feasible? That's what I'm asking the Minister. Let me give you an example of the province of South Holland. Dunes are sensitive nature, but still get 1600 mol per hectare per year of nitrogen, where most nature gets up to 900 mol per hectare per year of nitrogen. The most vulnerable nature can have only 700 moles per hectare per year to be below critical deposition values. Of the present 1600 moles, only 20% come from the region. The rest comes from the nitrogen blanket and from the sea and shipping. The province and the municipality can do very little about this, but see themselves for construction projects in Rotterdam, The Hague, Valkenburg and so on. They're gonna cost you nitrogen again. How's the county gonna solve this? What is the Minister going to do to prevent construction plans from being fired by the judge, because the KDW is anything but hard for the South Dutch dunes? What tough measures will the Minister take when to ensure that the Randstad South building agreement can be implemented? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State mentioned two elements in its rulings why the PAS was not sustainable as a basis for authorisation: prior authorisation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The latter does not seem to have been solved. We hear gloomy sounds from the provinces. They fear that many projects will not be able to take place because emissions remain too high and the Council of State will not accept licensing. Members of the Advisory Committee also have this fear. The notion of Van den Burg-de Vries also states that this law cannot achieve legal certainty, as only 22% of additional nature reserves are brought under the KDW. Does the Minister know these messages? What's her reaction? In short, my group is deeply concerned that, because of the large regional differences in declarations and the sometimes limited possibilities for regional intervention, the measures are not sufficiently concrete to maintain legal status. On top of that, a substantial part of the space gained is, quite rightly, intended for legalization of the PAS detectors. Can the Minister explain again why the legal certainty law, which it is all about, is being implemented? On the subject of the hardness of the by far most important emission reduction measures: animal feed and barn measures. Reducing protein in animal feed seems effective, at least on paper. My question to the Minister is whether this can be done in dairy farming, with the current cow breeds selected at the highest possible rate of return. Or does less protein also mean less milk and therefore a cost for the farmer? If that's the case, who's gonna pay for it? The yield of the measure is rather uncertain: 18 mol to 67 mol emission reduction in 2030. Can the Minister explain this difference? The stable measures, which should contribute to a mole reduction from 29 to 41, are subject to a similar demand. These are likely to be measures that separate faeces and urine in the stable. How is it ensured that these measures are not particularly successful on paper but do little in practice, because they are broken or clumsy in business? The Minister proposes periodic monitoring against uncertainty, with additional measures to be taken if the measures taken prove to be insufficient. I ask the Minister how this relates to the judge's test, which tests the space for individual plans against the burden on nearby individual Natura 2000 sites. For the sake of clarity, my group is in favour of a firm reduction of livestock in order to improve climate, animal welfare, our health, but also the nitrogen deposition and thus nature. I told you, the helm has to be turned. This law mainly preserves the old situation. I have a number of other questions for the Minister in the area of emission reduction. An important part of the issue comes from abroad. The government's commitment to reducing this source is not convincing yet. Has cooperation been sought with existing administrative links in the border regions? Has any attempt been made to reach treaties or other hard agreements with Germany and Belgium, at least with border regions in these countries? Is the EU involved in the consultations? What is the urgency of the approach in this source? We read from the week that the urgency seems to have increased in Belgium at least. Mr. Chairman. I quote:'(...) injecting concentrated fertilizers and ploughing protein-rich crops has a negative impact on soil biodiversity and therefore soil quality. (...) A healthy soil is a living soil. Soil life has several functions. For example, it makes nutrients from organic material available for plant growth, suppressed diseases and pests, ensures an appropriate soil structure and water retention capacity, prevents nutrient leaching, ensures clean drinking and surface water and can inhibit climate change by capturing carbon." I quote the report again Not everything can go anywhere. I do that for two reasons. First of all, my group believes that soil quality is still under-exploited in the plans. The cabinet wants to invest in stable systems and lay down rules for grazing, but the proof of the pudding is the actual quality of the soil. Has the cabinet considered including the quality of land with an agricultural destination itself as a checkable goal? The second question concerns integrality. The quotation shows that a healthy soil is good for many purposes, for agriculture, nature and water quality and so on. To what extent are the government's plans steered or otherwise adjusted by this integrated approach and the obvious synergy it gives? Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the EUR 300 million per year for ten years for environmental improvement, the second track. It is only mopping with the tap open if the source is not addressed. Fortunately, the improvement of nature itself would also, albeit limited, contribute to the reduction of emissions. I wish the Minister and her successor success in implementing these funds. We like to think along, for example when it comes to the recovery of peat meadows. Finally, the third track of the cabinet, nature-inclusive spatial design, excels in vagueness, despite the extensive attention this section receives in the report Not everything can be done anywhere. The title even refers to it. Here my group reiterates the long-standing concern about the lack of direction of the national government, which is so important for these measures. Does the Minister have sufficient steering instruments in his hands? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the quality of life of the countryside. This calls for a stable income model that allows green enterprise. I quote again: "Boers can't be green when they're red. Agricultural management that contributes to sustainable food production, good environmental quality and an attractive and vital countryside while preserving cultural values and restoring biodiversity requires a more differentiated earning model that is intrinsically beneficial in terms of structural margin on production." This comes out again Not everything can be anywhere. This requires a steering role of the central government. My group has seen the vision of the cabinet, but not yet the implementation. What is going to happen, in concrete terms, to make the countryside not an adversary of the government, but a supporter? Many agricultural entrepreneurs see the need for change, but do not see how that can be done. Following on from my colleague in the House of Representatives, William Moorlag, I ask the Minister what steps she has taken to reach agreement with the sector and what is still in the pipeline. This calls not only for talks with farmers, but also with colleagues in the cabinet. Farmers are under such pressure because the price of food is below the real cost. The question before us therefore is how can a fair price be set, in which vulnerable people are spared. Has the Minister had this discussion in the Cabinet and what was the outcome of this? Mr President, I will conclude. My group has serious doubts about the law and the measures envisaged. We wonder if it is enough to protect nature and remove the land from the castle. It's a lot like too little too late. We would have liked the minimum reduction of the Advisory Committee on Nitrogen to have been followed. Now that this has not happened, the question remains for my group in the First Chamber as to whether the current imperfect proposal is better than letting the cabinet do its homework again. On the basis of the Minister's answers, we will make a final assessment. At the moment, we are not in a positive mood. To quote the poet J.C. Bloem: "And then what is nature still in this country? A piece of forest the size of a newspaper." And even that nature we don't know how to protect properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mr Koffeman on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u93	I listened with approval to Mr Recourt's speech. He wants more guidance from the central government. His party could well be part of the central government in a next cabinet. I have not actually heard from the Labour Party how much reduction in the livestock for the Labour Party is at least conceivable. At the moment agriculture accounts for two thirds of the land area in the Netherlands. Six hundred million animals are slaughtered every year. What is a reduction for the Labour Party that you say is that all those goals that we are looking for would be more visible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u94	I cannot give you a specific percentage either. My party doesn't have that. I can give you a private opinion, but it doesn't do you much good. More generally, I can say that the current way of keeping animals industrial in such a large-scale way, most of which are also for export, is not a manageable model. We've got to get that model on. That's what I said: the helm has to be turned; we have to go to an agricultural revolution. If your former business partner succeeds in making milk in factories instead of by cows, then I only see cows as primeval in the meadow and in the woods. In this direction, I think, my group thinks, the party thinks. But there is no percentage of 50% on that, as with other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u95	D66 calls for a 50% reduction in livestock. Do you think that's a lot, or do you think that's a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u96	That depends on the deadline, but I am not afraid of such percentages. I just can't name a percentage myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u97	Then Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u98	I heard with approval my former colleague Elbert Dijkgraaf quote: farmers cannot be green when they are red. I very much agree with that, but how should this be resolved? A number of measures are being requested from farmers. That is what money is for, but does Mr Recourt think that will be enough? One way or another, the revenue model must be exploited by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u99	I have already indicated a number of directions in my speech. One of them is that it's just too low-priced. You can solve this in different ways as a government, for example by compensating that price by subsidies, by increasing the price in the store and by compensating for people with low carrying capacity. At the heart of it, of course, is that: the farmer must get a fair price for a fair product. At the moment, this can only be done by increasing the scale on scale, with the associated environmental costs. And it's at the expense of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u100	Yes, I think Mr Recourt is touching an important item with those prices of the products. But with the enormous task ahead, more needs to be done. Does he have any examples for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u101	In the short term, of course, it will have to be about stopping certain companies. This can be done with voluntary buy-out, which can at some point also go with forced buy-out. It can be done with a cap, a hard reduction of 10% per company. There are all kinds of possibilities. My only argument is: do so as much as possible with perspective for farmers. Give them some clarity. In fact, it is mainly about livestock farming, about livestock farmers. Give them clarity and make sure they don't go into the abyss financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u102	Thank you. Mrs Faber has another question on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u103	My question is about price development for those farmers. Mr Recourt says that farmers are not getting enough for their products. But isn't the State the biggest price driver with all the rules being added?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u104	From the perspective of the PVV, yes. If I have listened to you correctly, you say: let everything go and then the farmer can take care of himself. If you did, you might even wonder if the Dutch farmer would survive in international competition. But in the same view of the PVV, this is at the expense of the viability of the Netherlands. That is not what my group and my party are willing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u105	It seems as if I am getting someone in the group, because Mr Recourt is now coming up with PVV views. But I'm asking for the position of the PvdA. I know our own point of view. I am concerned about the position of the PvdA. Isn't the state the biggest price driver for the farmers? I'd like that question answered. I'm not asking what the PVV thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u106	I have just argued that the market does not include costs that are incurred, namely for animal welfare, for the environment, for our future. If you price those costs fairly, you also have another agriculture. It is up to the State to realize that fair pricing. Yeah, that's how my party sees the role of the state. We are not leaving the free market completely free: there is a need for strong government control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u107	Mrs Faber, the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u108	I don't think we're getting anywhere with this point of view. But I'll mention another hook in here. Isn't it the middleman who takes too much out of there? The PvdA likes to regulate. But is there ever a conversation with this broker, with the Alberts Heijn of this time, who buy everything cheaply?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u109	Mr Recourt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u110	Yes, now we find each other, because I do believe that the margin that the intermediary takes is relatively large. The wholesale trade has a great market power vis-à-vis the individual farmer. I think it is excellent that the government is helping farmers to put a better price on that playing field. I believe that a motion to that effect has also been adopted in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you. I call Mr Schalk. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mr President. We used to learn in school that the air around us is almost 80% nitrogen. And over the last few weeks I have had moments when my time was 80% nitrogen, as a result of the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement bill that is before us. It is not an uncontested proposal. My group is therefore struggling with various aspects, in search of a balance between good and evil. Let me start with that last thing, that evil. This has to do with the high percentage of natural improvement by means of nitrogen reduction, as laid down in this law. The law states that this reduction should lead to an improvement of nature by 40% by 2025. Five years later, a further 10% will be added, to an improvement of 50%. And then there's a giant step in five years, to 74% in 2035. That's a huge reduction, from about 10 moles a year in the years 2020 to 2030, and then for five years a reduction by over 40 moles a year, if you convert that. My group has serious doubts about this construction. Moreover, in order to achieve these percentages, substantial and costly measures will have to be taken, in particular by farmers. At least there is a roadmap for the period up to 2030. But for the time after that, there's actually nothing at all, just a percentage in the law. I'm not much in favour of percentages in laws. I am not a prophet, but everyone can predict that we will be in trouble, for example with the Climate Act, where we have set percentages. But lawyers are probably already rubbing themselves in the hands of this law too if these percentages prove to be unfeasible. If the legislator wants to set percentages in law, this should only be done once the feasibility and affordability have been made clear. And that is missing, at least for the 2035 target. That's what I'm really worried about. That is why my question is what to do if those percentages prove to be unfeasible. At what point can it be determined whether this feasibility is realistic? In addition, an agricultural agreement is still being worked on, nitrogen modelling is still under review, there is uncertainty about house emissions, the proceeds of the subsidy scheme for source-oriented sustainability are unclear. All things considered, I would think it wise to have a serious review in a few years' time and to see to what extent the objective is feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u113	The objectives are laid down in the law. There is, of course, nothing against monitoring, we will talk about this later, a whole system is being set up for this, but these objectives are set out in the law. So if we don't make it, our measures will have to be tightened up so that we can make it. Is that also Mr Schalk's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u114	As long as it's in the law, that's the law and we have to comply with it. That could mean, I'm warning you, we're gonna be locked at some point if we don't make it. Further on in my speech, I will therefore make it clear that I really believe that we are laying the best possible foundation under what is happening. But at some point, when we come to the conclusion that it may not be feasible, you should also dare to discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u115	Yes, we've been discussing that in this file for about ten years, and you'll agree with me. But if I understand you correctly, you say that until 2030, my doubts are not present, but then I start to doubt, also because the measures have not yet been worked out. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u116	That is not entirely true, because we have put percentages in the law for a reason, even for 2025: 40% improvement in nature. I also see in the law that there is an evaluation in 2028. I think that is too late, because if we did not reach 40% by 2025, that would be an important signal. My idea would be to keep monitoring as closely as possible and to intervene as early as possible, and not until 2028 when you notice that it is unfeasible what is now in the law. Furthermore, it is true that, of course, we note on many fronts that anything and everything can happen in our society, which may require a new cabinet to make other considerations. I'm not going to anticipate that right now. What I am saying is that my group thinks it is a high percentage, a high level of ambition. I know that there is a huge problem, and I am not running away from it either, but we have to deal with it in a good way, so that they do not get into any more trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u117	Mr. Pijlman, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u118	I can say yes to this, but I have my doubts about your words: we have to deal with it in a good way. You might want to turn right and turn left on D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u119	You should always look closely at whether right and left is the same for the viewer, but I understand what you mean. At the moment, we have the first term of this debate and I give you my great concern. In the course of the debate, we will certainly be able to discuss this further. I know what the law says, but I can also state where my problem lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u120	Mr Schalk is right. A new cabinet could just turn that 74 into 80 or 85.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u121	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u122	That's an option. But I note that the SGP has also agreed to the law in the Lower House. According to the system I explained earlier, doesn't that just mean that if timely monitoring shows that more action is needed, we also need to take more action? That is the system of the law, as it was adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u123	Mr Janssen also jumps in on this point, while I have just said something about the percentages. The SGP group in the Lower House has indeed voted in favour of the law as it stands, but in particular it voted against the amendment on this high percentage. But that wasn't your question. I just want to do the law thing right for a second. I agree with Mr Janssen. The moment you see that something is not feasible, we will have to intervene. This can be done with source-oriented measures or other measures, such as technical improvements, innovations and the like. Those are all possibilities, but of course I won't let them... This is still independent of the fact that, at some point as legislator, special circumstances require you to be able to come up with new choices. I'm not asking for that right now, but I do think it's important to name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u124	In itself, I find it worrying that the SGP in the House of Representatives voted against that amendment. But do I have to understand Mr Schalk in such a way that if the law is the law and it says "74% by 2035', he also calls for timely action, also in view of the social aspects of the measures we need to take to achieve the target by 2035? Because we just have to implement the law, so that also affects the legal sustainability. We should not continue to question it all the time. If Mr Schalk says that 2028 may be a little late, then that means that we should start looking at how we can do it in a good way to ensure that the percentages laid down in the law are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u125	My party stands for an attitude to laws that can have no doubt. Whatever's in the law, you have to implement it, and if it turns out to be unfeasible, you have to intervene in time. This can be done by means of measures or other means. I can't see them all and I don't know what's happening in our society. Last year we didn't think you'd be standing here with a mouth cap in my hand. For the moment, the law applies. That's what I'm dealing with, and I'm dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u126	Mr Janssen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u127	Finally, Mr President. Feasibility is not something that happens to us. Feasibility is also workable. This means that we need to increase each other's feasibility to ensure that those affected are treated in a good way. That means getting started in time. Can I have Mr Schalk's approval on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u128	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u129	It is very good that Mr Janssen again calls for the word 'feasibility'. This feasibility is important. That includes affordability. So I agree with him. We need to look at it at a very early stage and see if it is feasible and affordable. I will therefore press very strongly for a timely start to examine whether it is feasible and affordable. We must try to get a model of earning underneath that will increase the feasibility. My former colleague Dijkgraaf from the Lower House has just been quoted by Mr Recourt for a reason. Farmers can't be green when they're in red, so we have to have an eye for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u130	I would like to challenge Mr Schalk to raise one level of abstraction. We are talking about standards here, but the Remkes Committee has already illustrated that the standards we lay down in this law are not enough to reduce the pressure on nature reserves. We take the risk that species die out in the Netherlands. I hear in your plea that, if we need to, we do not know what is happening, we need to look for room to pull the targets backwards. How does this relate to the responsibility, which you as a party attach very much to, for keeping the creation intact and for passing it on to the next generations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u131	It is very nice that Mrs Kluit refers to creation and to building and preserving what my group really stands for. That's a beautiful biblical notion. You haven't heard me ask you to postpone it or move it back. I have so far indicated above all that I am concerned that the percentage is very high. This may lead to concrete new measures, but it may also be that you are moving forward further. We have also heard from Mr.Janssen that it can go so well that at some point you should tighten the percentage upwards. I don't believe in that right away, but okay. The task that lies ahead is that there must be continuous progress in any case. We are now seeing a 40% build-up in 2025, 50% in 2030, and then, suddenly, 74% in 2035. That is not a task imposed on us by someone, but we ourselves put it in this law. In other words, you can obviously phase: the first five years 10% higher and then suddenly 24% higher. That's a pretty big step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u132	I'm gonna try again anyway. In these figures, which you well reflect, we already accept that species from the Netherlands and perhaps even even disappear. That is very well substantiated in the report of the Remkes Committee. As a party, you have responsibility for that, and I hear you say that. What do you mean by that? I hear you arguing from the point of view of the feasibility of the agricultural sector. That is a good point, but there is something to it and that is the conservation of the species in the Netherlands and sometimes even worldwide. How responsible do you feel for this? How hard do you intend to make a commitment to maintaining it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u133	Finally, Mr Schalk, please give me a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u134	What I think is important. I think it is very important to build and preserve, in other words: of course none of my group wants certain species to die out or whatever. When I speak to farmers, I also notice a huge passion for their business but also for nature. There is also a huge amount of work to be done on this. We cannot say that they have done nothing so far, but there is yet another very difficult task. The Minister ensures that there is a path underneath until 2030, but we can ask ourselves whether that is sufficient to achieve that. Are the finances sufficient, for example? I've heard calculations that if you wanted to improve all the stables to make that nitrogen reduction possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u135	Mr Schalk, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, because your speaking time is now almost doubling because of these interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u136	But that's not my fault, I guess, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u137	No, but you may be able to conclude now and then I ask if Mrs Kluit has a short final word and then we will move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u138	There is a great deal of work to be done, and there is also a lot of money to ensure that this is possible. We now have 452 million on the shelf for that. Those stables alone cost 2 billion. That's what I was about to say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u139	Mrs. Kluit, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u140	You will find us there on your side, but my question is whether you are in favour of preserving species for the Netherlands for a more active approach to peak loaders at the start of the programme, so that more pressure is put on those targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u141	Finally, and then we're really moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u142	I have to reply very briefly from the President. Then we'll get to the same point I interrupted you on. Of course, you can bet on those peak chargers, and I think the Ministry is doing the same. The Minister will undoubtedly say something about this today. But they also need to be treated legally. That legalization that is going to be in this law is going to be for them too, I think. You don't have to do one thing and leave the other, but both of you, make them fit under that law. The SGP is also being asked whether we respect that law, even if it is a high percentage. Yeah, I respect that, but it also says legalization of the PAS detectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u143	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u144	If it turns out that these percentages are not feasible, then two routes are possible. In fact, I have already said this in detail in connection with the interruptions. The first is that more source measures are being taken, i.e. a heavier burden on the sector. But that again affects the socio-economic feasibility and perhaps also the technical possibilities for innovation. The second route is that there may be a temporisation, which we have just discussed in detail. Then the government must be prepared to come to a reconsideration. That second possibility seems crucial to me. But if that is not feasible, at least we have other measures to take, and that has just been shared in the little debate I had with several of my esteemed colleagues. But I am very curious to hear the Minister's response on this point. And look, I am also very curious to see how we are dealing with these Habitat directives, which require a favourable conservation status at any time, but not when to do so. I'm looking for a way to prevent us from intervening too late. I'm considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. The farmers are having a hard time. One of the main concerns for these farmers is the earning model, especially when it comes to introducing emission reduction measures, especially if those emission requirements for existing stables were tightened. But who's gonna pay for that? I have already mentioned the 452 million, but there are estimates that the real cost will cost more than 2 billion. And to put it in proportion: 450 million euros for 70,000 stables is €6,500 per stable. That almost lost a farmer to design and advice alone, without any further work being carried out. Can the Minister indicate how these heavy demands can be brought to a realistic conclusion? Farmers are very concerned about their future. That is why it is good that we are working on an agricultural agreement. We must work together to ensure a clear path for the next ten to twenty years, with an adequate earning model for sustainability. What is the state of play, I would ask the Minister, with regard to the agricultural agreement, and is it working on a well-earned emission reduction model? As far as the SGP is concerned, an important element is the agreement with farmers on the implementation of these nitrogen measures. Now the Dutch dairy farmers union has recently been kicked out of the discussion by the Minister. What's the deal with that, exactly? I see no shaking, so I hope that will be corrected. How is the Minister going to ensure that the sector is not discussed, but is again discussed with the sector? And I know that a law is needed to achieve the reduction of nitrogen and the improvement of nature, allowing for various sectors to function and hopefully flourish in the future. But that must not be at the expense of farming. We also need this very often for food supplies, but also for our economy. Mr. Chairman. If the law only had those percentages in it, my party would soon have finished, perhaps. But there is another element in this law, which can solve the problems; and I am referring, of course, to the pfas cases. They must be legally helped by legalization. They need legal certainty, otherwise they will be too vulnerable financially. They don't get to innovate at all when there's no room to invest. Companies that have to deal with problems are basically lame. Is the assumption correct that the legal guarantee of legalisation of cases contributes to greater legal certainty for these entrepreneurs, including towards banks, my question is. Many farmers who have acted in good faith are in great uncertainty, sometimes because the bank is threatening to deduct the hands of the company, or because a takeover is suspended. Innovation and sustainability is certainly not included. These companies deserve greater legal certainty as a matter of priority. The pressure on the available nitrogen space is high, and with the recent Council of State statements it has not diminished. Can the Minister promise that priority will be given to pfas bottlenecks in nitrogen space and be at the top of the priority list? And will the Minister, in cooperation with provinces, ensure that urgent problems with financing problems are authorised in the short term, or as a relapse option a financial guarantee? Pfas detectors make thousands of euros of consultant fees for submitting all data; there are administrative costs, there must be an ecological test, the fees must be paid. Will the Minister ensure that these costs are reimbursed? Mr. Chairman. Another important issue is the functioning of critical deposition values. This plays an increasingly important role in the policy, not only in determining the state of conservation of habitats and in the AERIUS calculations, but now also in those of environmental values. The critical deposition values established nationally to the decimal place mask the fact that there is considerable scientific uncertainty. Can the Minister promise that there will be an independent investigation into the justification and functioning of those critical deposition values and, if so, is it possible to have that independent investigation carried out by the Hordijk Committee? Much more money goes to buying up businesses than to taking emission reduction measures on the farmyard, while the latter is much cheaper. Why doesn't provinces be given much more space to pull their own line depending on the processes of the area? The nitrogen-sensitive nature also includes tens of thousands of hectares of search areas for habitats of Natura 2000 species. I'll question this. In these search areas there is still uncertainty as to whether the habitat in question is actually present, while projects are already being dealt with hard. Reports show that the competent authority has policy freedom with regard to the registration of search areas under Natura 2000. I ask the Minister to make use of this freedom of policy and not to include areas until it is established that this is a habitat. Even habitats have been identified where these species are simply not to be found and habitats have been identified which are nitrogen-sensitive but where the species in question are affected by that nitrogen and its effects. Does the Minister share my view that these areas should be removed from AERIUS as soon as possible? Mr President, I should like to say a few words about this. My group has a lot of questions. In doing so, I realise that there is a great challenge with enormous consequences for various sectors. My group aims at feasibility and affordability and at resolving problems and preventing new problems. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u146	Mr. Schalk says he doesn't like to see percentages in a bill, that he has a problem with that. I agree with that. However, looking at the voting behaviour in the House of Representatives, the SGP voted in favour, so that I have the next question to ask Mr Schalk. How does he look at the uncertainties in the calculation models? What really matters is percentages, the underlying calculation models must be correct, otherwise things will be flawed in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u147	That is a good question, because those uncertainties exist. I have just skipped a piece of my text because I got caught up in speaking time. It says here: "The Minister writes in the note following the further report that the KDWs are largely based on field and laboratory experiments and that model outcomes have only been used to supplement or clarify." So there are questions. I think that your group has just made the same point. So I was just thinking: in order to shorten my own text, that question is already there. So I am going to listen very carefully to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u148	So I actually helped Mr. Schalk a little bit in this by putting this forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u149	Sure, you do that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u150	Does the SGP not also argue for greater openness and transparency, for example as regards the justification of the SDFs in relation to the notifications made to Brussels? Because this also indicates the state of the habitat types, which is very interesting for us to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u151	My group stands for all the transparency that is possible and necessary, because I think it is incredibly important that farmers who are willing to go very far should also be given the exact details. I listened carefully to your speech, Mrs Faber, and you also asked for clarity and transparency. I am also very curious whether the Minister will say: I am not becoming more transparent. I could hardly imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u152	Mrs Faber, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u153	All right, I'll come back to you today about transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u154	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Koffeman on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I see that time has gone on before I started, but we will talk about that later. For a few months now, helicopters have been flying above the Veluwe. Not from tourists who want to see the beauty of the heath from a different perspective, or from soldiers who want to defend the land, but from nature managers who pour limestone stone or shell dust over the land, over the forest, in order to prevent the acidification of the soil. There are also large agricultural machines in the nature reserve that have to ply the acidified upper layers of the soil. "Nature improvement," it's called official. In the legislative proposal before us, the Minister will pay EUR 3 billion for it. These are harsh measures which are unfortunately necessary. Because even if no mole of nitrogen were to fall down in the Netherlands, we would not be rid of the problem, because nitrogen accumulates in the ground and does not disappear there by itself. That's how serious the situation is. Nevertheless, the Minister again comes up with a law that has too high a string, according to Friso de Leeuw, emeritus professor of territorial development at TU Delft. Johan Vollenbroek, well known to all of us by now, even calls the "PAS 2.0," and if he says it, I would take it very seriously as a minister. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has 166 Natura 2000 sites protected by the European Birds and Habitats Directive. We have agreed to protect certain species and their natural environment in these areas, so that biodiversity is preserved there. In these areas, only a limited amount of nitrogen may fall on the ground. More nitrogen causes big problems. This is the case at 75% of the Dutch land area, with disastrous consequences for nature. The heaths grow up, become overgrown with bramble bushes, butterflies and rare insects disappear because of lack of food, ancient oak forests die and songbirds no longer lay complete eggs because of lime. That's what we're talking about today. The temporary emergency law that was passed in this house in December 2019 barely solved anything. Low protein feed and a stripe through the maximum speed of 130 km/h on the highway, which had to provide just enough air to take the housing market off the lock again. But low protein feed proved to be harmful to the cows and 100 km/h driving proved to do little for nitrogen emissions from traffic. In short, the legislation so far has not been helpful and we believe that the law now before us does not add much to it. 'Not everything is possible' was the opinion of the Remkes Committee, and yet that is what the Minister is trying to propose here again. Our group had hoped that the Minister would now understand that the cabbage and the goat cannot be spared at this stage. There is now a need for serious action, with legal certainty for farmers, builders and citizens. But the Minister chooses what is feasible, or no, for what she thinks should be feasible, not for what is necessary. Our group does not believe that this is possible. Yet she is already assured of a majority in this house. The SP, the SGP and the 50PLUS group received a little favor from the Minister in exchange for their support. The result is a weak compromise which, in the opinion of our group, will sooner or later be lost at the Council of State, just like the PAS. Mr. Chairman. By 2025, this bill is intended to restore the health of 40% of nature sensitive to nitrogen. The road to hell is paved with good intentions. An ambition of 50% in ten years, which amounts to 26% less nitrogen emissions in the same period, is not very logical. The Remkes Committee advocated a minimum of 50% and experts put it at 70%. The Animal Party understands very well that for activities that are important, such as housing, you may need some space that can be at the expense of nature. We even understand that the construction sector is partially exempted from the licence requirement, but that space can only be spent if you have a legally protected programme, which ensures that nature is protected. That is the condition under the European Habitats Directive, which the Netherlands simply has to comply with. But with this bill, the Minister of Housing, Farmers and Taxpayers raises the same problems as then, but later on. Deferral of execution, dangerous and unacceptable flight forward. Mr. Chairman. The Minister hopes to create nitrogen space by subsidising technical gadgets such as low-emission stables, diluting manure, fire-dangerous air scrubbers and cow toilets. In Nieuwkoop, farmers receive €300,000 in grants to try out these kinds of innovations in their stables. The Minister may trade the nitrogen to be saved with the Rotterdam port company that lacks nitrogen space. And that's where it goes wrong. The PAS died on that. The judge ruled those magic tricks weren't allowed. The European nature protection rules require that 100% of the nitrogen reduction in overstretched natural areas should benefit nature and the proceeds of the reduction should therefore not be re-exploited on economic activities as is currently the case in Nieuwkoop. Can the Minister explain how she sees it? Does the Minister agree with us that not only are the effects of technical measures very uncertain, but that they also encourage economies of scale because investments need to be recovered, and that these measures do not therefore contribute to a nature-inclusive agriculture? Has research been carried out on the effects of these measures on animal welfare? And if so, if it appears or would appear that the welfare of animals is being harmed, is the government prepared to stop these measures immediately and to look for alternatives? Can the Minister share the results of that investigation with the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. There is another point that we are concerned about. The nitrogen reduction measures shall be completed by the Deputy States. This is going to be a lot of work with a party like the CDA, which in eleven of the twelve provincial governments is greedy. What does the minister do when provinces are confronted with raging tractors that ram doors of provincial houses and aggression from organizations like Farmers Defence Force? The actions have already been announced, and we have seen how quickly some provinces will then pass over. In short, where is the guarantee that the provinces will come up with any necessary plans at all? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Remkes Committee recommended that we go to clean-up before the big blow and then especially look at peak loaders in vulnerable nature. Why did the government choose to volunteer in this crucial task? In Trouw, on 24 November last, a study was presented showing that if the 25 most polluting nitrogen companies were to be bought up, the problem would be solved. As an example, a turkey holder was mentioned on the Veluwe which emits as much nitrogen as all Dutch save together by driving only 100 km/h. However, the government continues with a voluntary buy-back scheme. If the policy is not successful, the Netherlands will again fall silent. Can the government explain why it is persisting in this approach? What concrete measurable effects in moles per year does the government expect from buying out peak loaders voluntarily? How long do these processes last on average? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Not only peak taxers are approached to buy out on a voluntary basis, also pig farming can count on warm clean-up. For this, nearly half a billion euros of taxpayers' money are allocated. It is an old subsidy scheme that has to seduce hundreds of pig farmers to stop their farms, a scheme that was actually intended to tackle odour nuisance. The reduced nitrogen is only by-catch, the Minister had to acknowledge upon request. It is already clear that this measure will not produce the promised reduction of nitrogen emissions. The planned savings have already been promised to housing and road construction, but research shows that the Minister used a calculation of the Plan Bureau for the Environment that estimated the impact of this measure almost three times too high. For its calculation, the PBL based itself on a calculation method which assumes that only companies close to nature reserves causing relatively high nitrogen damage could participate in the clean-up. In the conditions for the scheme, however, the distance from a nature reserve does not play any role. Farmers with relatively little nitrogen damage are also participating. Because of this method, the Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment results in a much too high reduction of nitrogen precipitation. On this basis, the Minister already promised a large part of the construction, while the pig regime is likely to yield less than half. Can the Minister confirm that? And if that is not the case, what guarantees can she give that her favourable forecasts will become reality? Especially the pig farmers themselves benefit from the buy-out, as are the largest funder of the sector: the Rabobank. The bank for agricultural entrepreneurs wrote most of the terms and conditions and will receive 40% of the subsidy in the form of repaid loans according to Investico. I would like a response from the Minister to these findings. Mr. Chairman. We would also like to hear from the Minister about companies that voluntarily quit and then decide to continue their work elsewhere. We've seen how that went with the mink farmers. They first got the jackpot of on average over 1 million per company to stop their gruesome work and promptly gave them to switch to goats. You know, the other branch in the livestock sector in which zoonoses thrive and in which neighbors are relatively often affected by pneumonia, which means that a hundred people have died and thousands of people are permanently ill and therefore will not get any better. We like to hear it. We fear a waterbed effect. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands wants to be the milkman and the butcher of the world. But we are left here in the Netherlands with the stench, the dung, the scrambled soil, the rai grass deserts without cattle and not to mention the true danger of the emergence of new zoonoses. Moreover, two thirds of the Netherlands now consist of agricultural land, while we have too little nature and lack land to build homes. In short, we're stuck in a system that doesn't make anyone any better, except the Rabobank, the builders of mega stables and the cattle feed companies. The farmers themselves are also trapped and can only survive thanks to European subsidies and ever-increasing scale. Farmers do not have a earning model, but they are a earning model, said Professor Erisman recently. That can't be sustained. In the end, the system will have to come to an end and some of the farmers will have to stop. Already five to seven farmers quit their farms every day. At the moment, 16,000 farms are for sale. I would like the Minister and also the parties who say they want to stand up for the farmers to pay attention to this. This law would have been an opportunity for a positive trend break, but unfortunately the Minister opts for padding and keeping wet, contrary to European rules. Mr. Chairman. Since the corona crisis, which has kept us locked up in our homes, many people have gained a new appreciation for nature. During the weekends we dive into the dunes, the woods and the parks to enjoy the tranquility, the fresh air and the beautiful surroundings. Let's cherish those places! Not only for ourselves, but also for future generations. Because you can look for life on Mars, but what's the point of treating 640 million lives a year like dirt in our country alone? Animals are being deprived of their lives after a lifetime in a dormant stable for our delicious appetite and supposed economic interest. Nature and animals on our own planet deserve our protection. The earth offers enough for everyone's needs, but not for everyone's greed. Corona could introduce a turning point for a different way of looking at animals, nature and the environment. For the time being, the cabinet is mainly concerned with the fight against symptoms and not with the elimination of causes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u156	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u157	Mr. Chairman. On 17 December 2019, we discussed the Emergency Law approach to nitrogen. The law was passed by a very narrow majority. The 50PLUS Group also voted in favour. It was close. The aim of the law was to further reduce the current nitrogen tax and to intensify the present natural recovery. The proposal provided for additional instruments to allow for this approach. The emergency law was necessary after the Council of State's ruling on the sustainability of the PAS in order to partially reverse the consequences. Previously, the Council of State had expressed clear reservations about the legal sustainability of the law. We didn't make it until then. This law, too, gives clear signals of doubt about the sustainability of this law. My group is asking for a response from the Minister. At that time, in December 2019, I said that more investment was needed in support. We have to, but we don't have to do it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Up to 2050, step by step, was and is our motto. The question was and is: what have the parties who have borne government responsibility for 35 years done? Where were they all this time? Why hasn't the necessary changes started much earlier? Why are the citizens not much more involved and prepared? We could have been way further on the road by now. Now it felt like a robbery. The most important reason for the emergency act was to enable the construction activities with very low nitrogen emissions to be restored. The housing market is locked, which stagnates the housing for seniors, but also for starters, resulting in huge price increases that make homes priceless for our children and grandchildren. The price increase in 2019 and 2020 is at 10%. The emergency law looked like an emergency in a hurry. Through an artificial construction, a combination of the introduction of a threshold and a nitrogen registration system, the so-called nitrogen bank, we had to quickly create enough nitrogen space to get house, road and water building going. At the end of my speech, I drew attention to the acute shortage of senior housing as part of an increasing housing shortage. We also welcome the Aedes and others action plan to create a housing coalition and build 1 million homes over the next ten years, including for senior citizens. We then asked the Minister to promote and give priority to the construction of senior residences. This accelerates the flow on the housing market that is now hidden, partly because there are too few senior homes and seniors continue to live in the home where they have lived for a long time, and often too long. There will be a win-win situation if more senior homes are built. As a result, there are places for starters and young families. In the second term, I tabled a motion asking the government to examine the local demand for suitable homes for older people so that they can be translated into concrete actions through residential care visions by municipalities. That motion was adopted unanimously at the time. Mr. Chairman. In a letter dated 22 January 2021, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations carried out the motion containing the report "First Monitor for Older People's Housing 2020. On the basis of the Van Otterloo motion in the Lower House, the cabinet made 20 million available to support the construction of clustered housing in 2021. Together with the SP group in the Lower House, Van Otterloo has requested an extension for 2022 for another 20 million. For the 50PLUS group in the Lower House, this extension was of great importance, because it concerns the elderly housing as part of the overall package in which speed is of great importance. The Group has spoken about the red-for-red method of speeding up the process and ensuring that there will be a strengthening of the quality of life and support in rural areas. The motion of Bishop of the SGP and Van Otterloo has also been adopted. It has also been looked at the approach of peak taxers in agriculture and beyond. A motion on extra bets on the voluntary buyout of peak loaders from De Groot from D66 and Van Otterloo you will see how active we are there. Can the Minister go into that again? Couldn't buying up farms be linked to initiators who want to build senior housing? Can a sort of protected market place be created to bring supply and demand together and ensure municipal involvement and cooperation? This will create a priority position for older people's housing. That's good for the flow. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. With regard to the housing of senior citizens, I would like to point out that there could and should be room for young people who can therefore provide a safe environment for the elderly in housing, with help where necessary. Minister Ollongren confirmed the twice 20 million in her letter of 22 January. This support is provided through financial support for general facilities, such as the meeting room. In conversations with municipalities, housing corporations, market players and citizens' initiatives, the financing of such facilities is given as a bottleneck. Minister Ollongren will inform the First Chamber of the completion of the scheme before 1 May 2021. Can Minister Schouten ask her fellow Minister Ollongren to come forward with concrete steps? In her letter, Minister Ollongren also mentions the Task Force Wonen en Zorg, which is to ensure that a residential care analysis and a residential vision are made in each municipality by mid 2021. The residential care vision is the starting point for binding performance agreements with the organisations concerned, with the ministries of VWS and BZK and also with VNG, Aedes and ActiZ. The database that is part of the Elder Housing Monitor can help municipalities to establish their task. So this is about action and action. This minister can take care of the ground to get ground under his feet here. There's a natural crisis, a housing crisis and a corona crisis. We need to get out of these crises. That can only be done if, at least as far as nitrogen is concerned, the lock goes off the door and we ensure a good future. For the 50PLUS-group in the Lower House, three cases were of great importance. What really improves nature, even in the short term? What improvements are required in the legislative proposal? How can we formulate flanking policies and other points? For the 50PLUS group, construction is of great importance, especially in view of the Randstad. The problem of the deposition in the Randstad is not caused by the construction. There are other factors that need to be taken into account. In this context, Mr Harbers was adopted by the VVD Group, in order to ensure that the construction of 100,000 homes in the Randstad and the activities in the Rotterdam port can continue. That means you also need to see where part of the nitrogen deposition comes from. It's from shipping. This also means a plea for the destruction of sailing routes and the rapid achievement of shore flow. We also need to look at the hangouts for cruise ships and oil tankers off the coast, because these hangouts also contribute to the problems along the entire North Sea coast, which is actually a Natura 2000 site. A series of seven amendments adopted in the Lower House has led to an even more complicated law, but also a better one. I have to make a comment on all these amendments. Last week, in a fascinating lecture in De Rode Hoed, MP Pieter Omtzigt called for a second reading of a bill in the House of Representatives, after amendments were adopted. The question that can be asked is: is the whole that is ahead of us a final building? That is also my question. My group considers this to be a very strong proposal, which should be introduced as soon as possible in the House of Representatives, but we are not discussing it. It is an important contribution to the much-needed improvement of the legislative process and to the review of feasibility in the House of Representatives. The First Chamber can therefore perform its own key role better. That's a hell of a job now. His suggestion for an article-by-article examination of legislative proposals is also warmly supported by my group. Minister Schouten informed the House of Representatives in her letter of 17 December 2020 that some of the amendments adopted by the Chamber make it necessary to supplement the draft decision we are now discussing. Mr. Chairman. On the land on the east side of the A4 I saw a sign: I go cheerful into the future. This is also what my group wishes for farmers, citizens, builders, but above all nature and our children, for whom we have to build new houses. This bill is an example of the better being the enemy of good. Let's all continue to use our common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u158	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Dessing on behalf of the Group of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u159	Thank you, Mr President. "Thinking of Holland, I see wide rivers slowly passing through infinitely lowland." Thus begins Dutch most iconic poem, from Hendrik Marsman, an ode to our landscape and to our beautiful nature, as it used to be and as I still recognize it today during my walks through our beautiful country. A little further, Marsman continues with: "And in the great space the farms scattered throughout the country." It describes the farm as part of the Netherlands as it has been functioning for generations and is positioned today, as an innovative and world-leading industry that provides food to a large part of the world's population through efficient production and efficient land use. That Dutch farmer was always proud of this beautiful profession, which he carried out and still carries out with great dedication and with a sense of tradition. However, with the current proposal for a directive on nitrogen reduction and improvement of the environment, the management of the farmer is in danger of being reduced and made impossible. I am saddened by this, because in the current political constellation and on the indication of strict European regulations, farming has reached an almost irrefutable gordian knot of critical deposition values, hexagons, netting methods, AERIUS Calculators and other model terms which reduce the reality of nature and soil to a mathematical representation of reality, where science and the ministry have created a spreadsheet society on the EU's indication that we seem to have a major nitrogen problem. But according to our group, there is, above all, an administrative nitrogen problem and not so much a problem with nitrogen itself, which is unfairly under attack from our agricultural sector. Mr. Chairman. I will explain this on the basis of a number of facts as indicated by the Minister when he answered the many technical questions that were put to her, for which we thank him. First of all, there are the critical deposition values that have been empirically determined and are expressed by a model or by an expert opinion, which is regarded as scientifically reliable and which is now used as a hard threshold. There are many Natura 2000 sites, particularly in border areas, which can never meet this threshold, even if all the activities in this area are discontinued; several colleagues in the Chamber have already mentioned it. Are those areas in bad shape? In most cases not, so you can ask questions about the reality of a critical deposition value as a hard threshold. In our neighbour Germany, they use higher and more realistic values that do not paralyse normal activities, as was done by the PAS ruling in the Netherlands. Is the Netherlands dependent on Brussels' binding legislative leash in this respect, or can the Netherlands also apply more flexible standards? Would the Minister be inclined to opt for a more flexible standard than the KDWs to give more space to construction, for example? Mr. Chairman. Why have most habitat types been labeled nitrogen-sensitive, I ask the Minister through you. If you look at the surface of the Netherlands, 76% of the habitat is in good or excellent condition. The colleague of the PVV recalled that as well. Is it true that the lower numbers mentioned by the Minister can be explained by assuming number of habitat types instead of percentage of area? In addition, many areas are defined as nitrogen-sensitive if it cannot be established with certainty that a particular nitrogen-sensitive species is absent. Isn't that a pollution of the percentage of nitrogen-sensitive areas? Efforts to maintain the nitrogen-sensitive habitat types either force farmers to reduce their business operations or they are invited by strong incentive packages to stop their business, which means that their activity disappears forever. Our group considers this to be unjustified, absurd and disproportionate. Mr. Chairman. And all this for the higher purpose of nitrogen reduction, where most of the nitrogen present in the air is not even caused by the agricultural sector, but comes from the nitrogen blanket that has been co-fed by sources from abroad. In fact, according to the national clean air report 2020, the amount of nitrogen in the air is even below the strict European nitrogen standard. That was measured in 2019, so for corona. Road traffic, aviation and farmers themselves, through innovation and many other measures, have led to a structural reduction in nitrogen and particulate matter in recent years. However, despite all this, the amount of nitrogen must be forced further down, aviation must be restricted and aircraft must fly on expensive biofuel or even more expensive synthetic kerosene. Road traffic must not exceed 100 km/h, but the agricultural sector in particular must pay the bill because of an effort obligation to reduce an unvalidated, inaccurate and modelly calculated deposition. The sector is forced to reduce nitrogen, with manure being forced to be disposed of because it is not allowed to be run, and fertilizer must be bought in on the other hand. In addition, nitrogen absorbed by crops should not be reduced by nitrogen emissions, while nitrogen emissions from animals are not included in Natura 2000 sites. Emissions requirements also lead to higher costs. They are unworkable and even dangerous, because of the risk of explosion of trapped manure gases in mandatory wells. All these inequalities force the sector to incur high costs, to reduce it to mandatory organic farmers, but preferably to stop operating, as this would reduce the nitrogen standard administratively the most and permanently. In short, we have created a paper nitrogen tiger that is unprecedented and which has become an extremely complex and expensive biotope in itself because of the huge administrative burden. Does the Minister and our group believe that an unjust and unnecessarily complex system has been established, which is disproportionate to the agricultural sector? Mr. Chairman. The Forum for Democracy is for nature and nature conservation, but it would like to see a less stringent and simpler policy with higher and realistic nitrogen thresholds, which are workable for our Dutch agricultural sector, a sector that we should maintain together. In any case, we will continue to make efforts to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u160	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. I call Mrs Prins, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u161	Mr. Chairman. Today we are considering the government's ambition to significantly reduce nitrogen emissions in the coming years and to give a strong boost to the improvement of nature reserves. In this context, we would like to thank the Minister and her officials for their comprehensive response. Nitrogen reduction is needed to improve our nature. However, behind the words "dust reduction" and "natural improvement" live many legitimate interests of many groups in our society. They are justified from everyone's perspective; that's for sure. But they also sometimes conflict with each other. At the end of 2019, I outlined the prospects, wishes and needs of farmers, citizens, builders and outsiders, asking the Minister to take steps and develop a package of measures that meet these needs and needs. To that end, there is now this law. Mr. Chairman. This law gives farmers a heavy task of reducing nitrogen. But they get support, including in the form of possible buy-out, relocation, subsidies and perspective. The PAS reports and non-notifications are legalized, which will remove uncertainty among many farmers and entrepreneurs. The outsiders are aware of the fact that there are firm results obligations laid down by law for the conservation and improvement of the various Natura 2000 sites. Builders get more space to build. Think of additional housing, but also of the necessary projects for the security of our country such as dike reinforcement operations and primary crops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u162	Mrs Prins refers to the legalisation programme and says that this removes uncertainty from farmers. This includes not only projects in the agricultural sector, but also projects which put additional pressure on the future of farmers. I call Lelystad. That project just passed on Twitter. After all, if Lelystad Airport grows, there will be more nitrogen emissions there, and so that will put extra pressure on it. How does Mrs. Prins view the legalization program? Does she think that all the activities contained in it should be automatically legalised? Or should there perhaps be a prioritization in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u163	We believe that what was legally approved at the time should initially be returned from that perspective to: legalized.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u164	Even if that means that the sector we are talking about and will have to take these great steps will have to take even more steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u165	There are two things next to each other. I understand that you are indicating these two things, and yet we believe that we should first of all ensure that people who have expanded their business in good faith can continue to act on the same reliability. This could be a farm. In addition, there will certainly be conversations where you ask yourself: what is wisdom and what is not wisdom? That was said earlier this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u166	I can feel some space there with Mrs. Prince. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u167	The question then is where do you see that space and where do I see it? It is therefore a particular fact that interest groups from different groups call on the members of this Chamber to approve this bill, despite the many objections and concerns they have. Because for one group, the law is considered too ambitious, and for the other group that it does not go far enough. In the meantime, in the opinion of the CDA Group, there are still many points of focus in the implementation that require further explanations and commitments from the Minister. The result obligation to reduce nitrogen below the critical deposition value in 74% of Natura 2000 sites in 2035, is ambitious, some say too ambitious. The road to it has many pedals and clamps. I would also like to take this into account in our contribution. First of all, the result for 2035. The present law requires the same reduction of nitrogen in the period from 2030 to 2035 as in the period 2021 to 2030. Of course, we recognise the importance of healthy Natura 2000 sites, with wide biodiversity. We support the commitment to this. At the same time, we consider it extremely important that the Netherlands retains its leading international position in agriculture. This means a decent size and economically sound management, with attention to sustainability for humans, animals and nature. We would like to see this ambition confirmed by the Minister. We note that in recent years the agricultural Netherlands has already made a strong effort to reduce nitrogen and that many farmers are certainly prepared to continue to do so now and in the coming years, with the measures mentioned. But many also have great concerns about achieving a 50% reduction to reach the 74% Natura 2000 sites, with the right KDW. What possibilities and space can there be if the evaluation of 2028 shows that the 74% result is unrealistic, despite all the efforts made by the farmer and for nature? To what extent is the impact of climate change on habitat and conservation targets taken into account by 2030 and 2035? What comfort can the government offer agricultural Netherlands that there really is a future for them, which values the Netherlands for financially sound and sustainable agriculture? We call on the government to provide a basis for the period up to 2035, with real affordability as well as real affordability for the farmer as one of the criteria. I have access to PAS detectors, non-detectors and interims. The bill states, also in line with the letter of 24 April, that 11 moles have been realized for the legalization of PAS detectors and non-detectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u168	A brief question to clarify for Mrs. Prince. She was right about the evaluation in 2028 and about her concerns about percentages and so on. Does she perhaps agree with my group that it is important to start looking earlier for what is feasible and affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u169	We think it is very important to find out how to get to 74% and not wait too long. I'm going back to the PAS detectors and the non-detectors. This should be completed by 2023. Our group notes that many PAS detectors are in need and that there are several distressing situations. Then three years of uncertainty is in fact not justified. After all, these PAS detectors got into trouble without their fault. We believe that we need to work on this quickly and without delay. That 11 moles is reserved, but first the actual moles must be affected before a PAS detector can be legalized. The buying-up of peak chargers can relatively quickly ensure the construction of these moles. The CDA Group invites the Minister to increase and accelerate the second and third instalments of the buy-out of peak loaders and not to wait. Precisely because it has been indicated that the second and third tranches also include the possibilities of relocation of a company, it can encourage peak loaders to move or buy-back. We also call for a clear and simple approach for the PAS detectors. The signals from practice indicate that the current approach is difficult to implement and leads to considerable costs. We would like the additional costs a PAS detector has to incur to be reimbursed by the government. Can the government also promise that the legalisation of the PAS and non-detectors will be completed by the end of 2023? I'd like a response from the cabinet. We also call for attention to be paid to the so-called interim workers, entrepreneurs who have often acted fully in good faith in the years before the PAS regime. We ask the Cabinet to have a comprehensive inventory made of this group, including solutions for how this can be arranged for these entrepreneurs. Is it true that at least a toolkit is being developed for this group? I'd like a response. The implementation of this law requires a lot of the Empire and the provinces in particular. Area plans should be made per area and regular monitoring should be carried out. Detailed and careful administrative accountability will only become more important and plans will have to be taken into account. However, we are calling for attention to be paid to the risk that regional plans per province will not lead to the agreed national results. We call on the Minister to remain in close contact with the ministers in the coming period, so that it is not only when the regional plans are presented at the end of 2022 that it becomes clear whether or not the national targets are being met. We also ask the Minister to address provinces which do not take their fair share at an earlier stage. The CDA Group welcomes the fact that provinces that are tackling this rapidly and actively are also being financially honoured to do so. Moreover, have additional agreements been reached with the provinces on the financing of the many additional costs for the many additional staff required for this extensive and complex programme in the coming years? With regard to the development of the regional plans, the Minister indicated that the socio-economic aspects would also be taken into account. If negative socio-economic impacts cannot be excluded in advance, measures can be taken at regional level to mitigate or mitigate these effects. Can the Minister confirm that funding in this area is also regulated, so that those concerned do not have to worry about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u170	The representative of the CDA talks about the need for provinces to implement their fair share and that if they do not, they should be called upon to do so. But how honest does she think it is that provinces sign up extra nature on the edge of a Natura 2000 site, so you can suddenly become a peak loader? Isn't that a bit like changing the rules of the game?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u171	I'll get right to that in my speech. I would suggest that I first make my speech and then see if Mrs Faber has any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u172	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u173	I am going to talk about the size of the Natura 2000 sites. The answer to the questions put by the Nanninga Group shows that several habitats or small areas have been wrongly entered as Natura 2000 sites, with all the consequences. These areas are not known to those responsible for the provinces, nor have they been approved through the democratic process. This creates great unrest among farmers. In addition to the unrest and the many questions about the measuring systems, it now appears that areas are wrongly designated as nitrogen-sensitive. In the reply, the Minister indicated that the AERIUS system would be cleaned in the autumn. The CDA Group would like to see the AERIUS system cleaned up before the entry into force of this law, i.e. without the habitats and other areas too small for inclusion in Natura 2000. Can the Minister undertake to do this? The measuring systems...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u174	Mrs Faber is not quite convinced yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u175	Ms Prins indicated that the CDA wanted the AERIUS system to be cleaned in October before the law came into force. But is that a showstopper for the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u176	We will weigh all interests against each other and not just one aspect of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u177	So I can conclude that it could be a showstopper. Or no, then it's not a showstopper, because you're gonna weigh multiple cases, so this could just get a little bit out of hand. It would adorn the CDA if it came with a hard motion just to make this a condition before we can vote for this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u178	My proposal is that we wait for the Minister's answer before we consider any further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u179	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u180	The measuring systems. Partly on the advice of the Hordijk Committee and as a follow-up to an approved motion in the House of Representatives, the AERIUS monitor is being further developed and various models, such as those used in Europe, are being used to use a more adequate and equipped measuring system. The Minister also promised that more measurements would be made on the ground as a necessary complement to the various models. It now seems that in the future it will even be possible to gain more insight into the origin of nitrogen. What is the Minister's view of the possible risks that measurements in the coming years, with an improved measurement approach, will produce different results from those that have now been identified for Natura 2000 sites? On the one hand, in the coming years, the progress achieved in the various monitoring moments should be assessed on the basis of the current zero situation. On the other hand, improved measurement methods can suddenly show different values. What impact do these new measurement data have on the agreements as laid down in the present law? Is the Minister prepared to adapt, if necessary, results at the time of the major weighing event in 2028 or to introduce additional support measures in the broadest sense? Mr. Chairman. The Minister has indicated that, in addition to the national nitrogen deposition bank, nitrogen registration systems will also be set up per province. We would like to draw attention to the following. In the case of external salting, small quantities of nitrogen will often remain. This will vary from one province to another. How can it be encouraged that, in allocating nitrogen space for housing, for example, but also for infrastructure projects, the public interest prevails and not the importance of a single province? The nitrogen bank is already active, but the regional systems are not yet active. Can the Minister indicate the time limit for these systems to be operational? After all, until then, it is up to entrepreneurs themselves to find nitrogen space. This takes a lot of time and cannot be explained to all companies. Nor is it efficient in allocating the scarce quantities of nitrogen to be used. Is it agreed with the provinces or with the creators of the regional systems that the systems are set up identically, so that there can be no miscommunication in the coming years about the available nitrogen space? Does the government itself direct these systems? After all, many companies will depend on more than one province for external netting. I'd be happy to answer in this. As far as construction is concerned, the CDA Group welcomes the fact that this legislation and regulation offers a new perspective in this respect, especially by dealing with nitrogen emissions during the construction phase in a different way. However, we wonder to what extent this approach has been tested for legal sustainability. I'd like a response from you. Innovation. Innovation is a key factor in achieving the objectives in the coming years. You're right. The CDA Group would like to see a strong boost for innovation, but not only for agriculture, but also for maritime, aviation and industry, for example. Can the Minister indicate how the cabinet encourages sectors other than agriculture to reduce nitrogen emissions? It has to be with each other. Regardless of whether it is driving the Netherlands, the farmer or the industry, each has to take its responsibility. The CDA Group welcomes the establishment of the Task Force Acceleration Innovation Process Stalsystems and is looking forward to the results of this Task Force. In this context, it calls for specific attention to be paid to the financial situation of many farmers and how farmers can be supported in introducing innovations or investment. Can the Minister promise this support and advice under favourable financial conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u181	I have a very enlightening question for Mrs. Prince. You were just talking about innovation as if it were an end in itself to reduce nitrogen. Or do you also see innovation for the sector in a broader context?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u182	I see innovation as something you will always have to do as a country, regardless, and in this case very specifically, to see how to reduce nitrogen. European laws and regulations. We are pleased to receive confirmation from the Minister that the various source measures such as buy-out, relocation and the contribution to innovation are also EU proof, so that there is no need to delay their allocation. In conclusion, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a complex and ambitious law, with the different objectives as certainty, but in its elaboration still many uncertainties. Much remains to be done, sorted out, agreed upon and put into effect. The good news is that several provinces are already working hard on it. At the same time, many are still waiting for answers to the many questions raised in this Chamber. We therefore look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. I'm gonna take a look at the speakers' order. I suggest that Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has her input for lunch, if that works, and that we continue with the other speakers after lunch, if everyone agrees. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u184	Thank you, Mr President. We will certainly be ready in time, because I only have a short contribution. I would like to begin by warmly congratulating Mr Berkhout on his maiden speech. Given the way he made that speech, I think we're gonna hear a lot from him in the next few days, and I look forward to that. My group welcomes the legislative proposal that we are discussing today. I can also put it another way: we appreciate the fact that there is a legislative proposal today that seems to offer our country a way out of the nitrogen bypass we have been in for a few years. This proposal will enable the necessary housing to continue, remove some farmers' uncertainty about whether or not their activities are illegal, and make an important step in the necessary recovery and maintenance of our vulnerable nature. The list of the different effects envisaged by this law shows that it is a compromise law. This law takes into account many different, sometimes contradictory interests. That has led to a rather complicated law. But the starting point and ultimate goal of the law is the restoration and maintenance of the nitrogen-sensitive nature areas. The cabinet does not compromise on this, and my group welcomes that. In the Lower House the bill has been discussed extensively. A number of amendments and motions have considerably improved the law as far as my group is concerned. I am thinking here of the legalisation programme and the provincial regional plans. My group also welcomes the extra environmental value that should have been achieved by 2025. In this way, the approach is directly at stake and we can see whether the measures do indeed lead to the environmental values set. It is the Minister's assumption that this environmental value can be achieved. My group wonders what will happen if this environmental value is not achieved by 2025, for example. Who's gonna determine that? What legal consequences could that have? My appreciation and positive beginnings are without prejudice to the fact that my group still has a number of questions about this bill. These questions relate first and foremost to feasibility. The established environmental values: 40%, 50% and 74% in 2035, are a result obligation for the government, for the minister. It is the responsibility of the Minister to achieve these values. In addition to water boards and municipalities, it is mainly the provinces that have to work from their own jurisdiction to ensure that these values are achieved. The Reich's obligation to achieve results can be abraded in this situation. Has the Minister considered laying down the result obligation with the province? And why didn't the Minister decide? Mr. Chairman. I would like once again to raise a question which I also raised in the written round. In the explanatory memorandum, I read that there is an obligation to implement administrative bodies which have agreed to the measures to be implemented by them. On my question of what happens when an administrative body does not agree and there is therefore no obligation to implement, the Minister refers to a number of things as 'inter-administrative supervision instruments' or an 'implementation obligation under the rules of instruction to be established by the State'. The Minister does not expect problems to arise here, because the Empire and provinces feel fully responsible for the nitrogen approach. I agree with the Minister, and I certainly do not intend to question the willingness of other administrative bodies to work for the nitrogen approach. But, of course, there may be a difference of opinion as to the urgency or desirability of certain measures. The Minister concluded her reply by saying: "If the above instruments prove insufficient or are not considered desirable, the cabinet will have to prepare alternative measures, as the result obligation is addressed to the government." Could the Minister comment on what these alternative measures might involve? And I am particularly curious because I assume that these measures will also be targeted when monitoring shows that environmental values are not going to be met. Mr President, another question. My group has looked with curiosity at the percentage of the results commitments for 2035. 74% of the area must then be below the KDW. Just the question: why 74%, why not just 75%? And then: by amendment, provincial land plans are incorporated into the law. My group believes that this is a good thing; this is a way of making provincial tailor-made work possible. Would the Minister clarify once again how these regional plans relate to the measures which the provinces are committed to because they have agreed to them? And the minister writes that the IPO will take the lead in drawing up these area plans. Are these plans also submitted to the Minister for consultation or assessment? The legal sustainability of the partial threshold for construction has been discussed on several occasions. Nevertheless, I would like to hear again from the Minister, and perhaps in abundance, why she is convinced that this threshold is legally sustainable. My group welcomes the Minister's emphasis on monitoring the measures taken. In line with this, the intermediate targets announced are not results but efforts. If intermediate targets are not met, additional measures can be adjusted in time. The intermediate targets are there at the service of the environmental values. To meet these values, good monitoring is essential, and even crucial. Is the measuring instruments in such a way that monitoring can be carried out in a reliable manner? And I could ask a lot of questions about that, but for the sake of short, I agree with the questions that Mrs Prins has also asked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u185	A question of clarification: what intermediate objectives does Mrs Huizinga refer to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u186	I'm referring to what's first watched to see if you're on your way to environmental values. At some point I thought two years in advance of: where are we now, are we well on course? That's what I mean by the intermediate targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u187	Yeah, okay. So you're not referring to 2025, the 40%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u188	No, before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u189	That's a clear answer, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u190	Oh, thank God. I began by saying that this law is a compromise law, an attempt to reconcile conflicting interests. It is my group's belief that nature and activity should not stand in the way of each other. With good innovative measures and sufficient investment, it should be possible to restore and maintain our fragile nature, while enabling Dutch farmers to continue their business. My group is asking the Minister to give Dutch farmers the opportunity to come up with solutions themselves. The agricultural agreement can play a role in this and also, for example, the exploration of the checkable balance of substances. Dutch farmers are enterprising and are internationally in high esteem. They are able to respond to new methods, so is the conviction of my group. My group hopes that this law will contribute to a healthy nature and activity. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga-Heringa. For the people listening: you spoke of course on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-3.u192	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
