ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate Amendment of the temporary law on the strengthening of buildings in the province of Groningen. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, as well as the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. She had previously indicated that she could not be there, but it is very nice that she can still be there. So thank you for that. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. The supervisor said it again yesterday: the situation in Groningen is disruptive. And where the NAM showed earlier that it couldn't solve it, the government can't do it now either. The cabinet considered that it did not want to implement the two amendments adopted. I think that's an insult from the House of Representatives. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends not to bring into force two amendments adopted and to amend them later in a new legislative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government not to choose this route,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35603-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u3	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the right of amendment is crucial for the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends not to bring into force two amendments adopted and to amend them later in a new legislative proposal;]] [[noting that the Second Chamber is now excluded as co-legislator;]] [[calls on the Government not to interfere with the rights of the House of Representatives and not to set a precedent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35603-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u4	Mr President, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u5	You came to the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u6	I almost got to the end of it. I would like to point out that this was a terrible debate, a truly tragic episode. I think that we should never do this again, that we should finally get to work to ensure that the disaster that was caused in Groningen is resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u7	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u8	Well, especially an enlightening question about the first motion. Because what does Mrs. Beckerman want now? Isn't that an amendment at all, or is that a novelle? That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u9	Look, I just want those adopted amendments to be implemented. That would be my favorite option. What we are doing now is putting it back in the cabinet and saying: you have chosen this route; we do not accept that route. And then there are three choices, as we have been explained: whether the law is as it is, or whether they choose a novelle, so they withdraw it. Well, those are actually the options that are open. I'll put this back in the cabinet. As far as I am concerned, these amendments are of the utmost importance. And again, it is about the need for legal, technical and financial advice for residents and for them to be able to carry out the reinforcement in their own hands from start to finish. I don't know what's against it. I insist that this is crucial, and with this motion we will put it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u10	Thank you. Finally, Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u11	But do I understand that putting it back can be three variations: leaving the law as it is, a novelle and the route of the cabinet? Those are the three options that can then, if you say: the cabinet can choose freely?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u12	No, that option that the cabinet is slandering the Chamber, so says "we're taking out the two amendments," it's closed. And the options that will then remain - and that would be my preference - are: we are simply implementing those amendments, or the option that the cabinet still says to opt for a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u13	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is actually a double debate. A substantive debate on the amendments, which the PvdA Group has supported, and which I also consider to be a substantive improvement of the law, which the government, the cabinet, feels differently about. But the second element is actually a state-law debate: does the government, the cabinet, have the freedom not to implement adopted amendments, not to introduce them, to introduce them later, simply to support them? The latter weighs heavily for the PvdA group, because once you cross that bridge, you can never go back. We've been through it with motions. The standard rule is that the government carries out motions, but yes, it's hard to force them. The co-legislative role of the Chamber is truly fundamental. So I am really opposed, in principle, to the fact that the Cabinet can ignore amendments in any way. It can file a new law, repeal a law, or file novelles, but that's how it's supposed to happen. That is why I have also signed Mrs Becker's motions because I really do not think we should cross that bridge. That should not be a precedent. Whatever opinion you are, I voted against that law in the end, but I am a democrat and certainly should not let the Chamber pass this in these discussions about power and counterpower and the relationship between the Chamber and the cabinet as far as the content of those amendments is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u15	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u16	Mr President, thank you. The government asks the First Chamber to accept that the vote on the Temporary Law Groningen, as it took place in the Second Chamber, be reversed. Our group voted by mistake in favour of an amendment by Mrs Beckerman, which the government says cannot be implemented. D66 also did so in the case of an amendment. The government says afterwards: these amendments are impossible. In our view, the government should have declared this unacceptable, because it can, but the government does not want it, as the debate showed. So now the cabinet is coming up with a proposal for a new bill because according to the minister on a novelle route, the Council of State needs too much time to assess the novelle. But is it? In the past, emergency opinions have been issued, among other things, in the freezing of one's own risk, recently in the case of corona legislation and also in the case of the media amendment we have appointed. Has there been any contact with the Council of State on this? At what time does the Council of State propose to be able to assess the novelle? This is an exceptional situation in which the advisor to the House of Representatives states that the Chamber is excluded. As far as the CDA is concerned, that simply cannot be the intention. Within the usual constitutional relations, it would be more obvious, given the circumstances, to come up with a novella and that both the Upper House and the Lower House can express their views on it in this way. The CDA therefore advocates the novel route and we think it can be done quickly. Where there's a will, there's a way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u17	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u18	I can wholeheartedly support that plea. How is the CDA going to move the cabinet to that? That is, of course, important, because we all have opinions, but we also have to look at whether there is a majority in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u19	True, so I support Mrs Beckerman's motion, in which she cuts off the route as indicated by the cabinet now. Then I'll go for the novel route. It is logical that the amendments should be kept intact, which I understand, but I am in favour of the novel route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u20	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a very nasty situation. Two parties voted wrongly on two amendments. I very much regret that, because that creates uncertainty. I therefore think it is important that we, the House of Representatives, once again give our opinion on these proposals. As far as we are concerned, this should be done as soon as possible. We therefore believe it is important that the Groningen people be made clear quickly. This has been going on for far too long. We'll choose the route the cabinet proposes. We believe it is important that the legal basis for a number of amendments which have also been tabled to the law should enter into force, such as the mandatory cooperation of IMG and NCG and the restoration of foundations. So we support the cabinet route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u22	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. Then I look at the directors if they are ready to answer the questions and appreciate the motions. That's the case. I shall then be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During last week's debate, we found that the House of Representatives and the Government saw the importance of an early handling of this law in order to give clarity to the Groningers in the earthquake area. That was why the Chamber returned during the election recess in order to have this debate with the government. Unfortunately, then, in the vote in two cases, groups voted differently than they intended, that also explained and that then the task lies in how to deal with this situation. That there are no hard constitutional grounds for one choice or another; professors who come to different conclusions. And also a legislative practice that shows that the choice the government makes is a choice that has often been made. In the written reply to the First Chamber, which the House of Representatives knows in the meantime, the government gives a dozen examples, about ten examples, where it was previously decided not to bring into force a law in whole or in part. So it can't be said that this is totally new. But as the note of the House of Representatives states, it is ultimately a political weighting that is made here in this Chamber. In doing so, the cabinet has chosen the route it has also presented to the Chamber: to allow the law for that part of which there is no discussion to enter into force, so that there is also clarity to the Groningen people, no time is wasted, and to return to the Chamber as soon as possible to submit that choice explicitly to the Chamber. We also indicated in that debate that the other route is the novel route, that if the Chamber decides by majority, we have no objection in principle to it, but that there are two consequences. One is that by submitting a novella the law, including those parts whose majority wants it to enter into force, does not yet enter into force. That is an inevitable consequence. And a second is that we can indeed go to all those involved to deal with this novelle as a matter of urgency. That is not only the Council of State, but also the Second Chamber and the First Chamber, and it is also good practice to consult with a law. We can fry it, but it's not in our power. So in addition to the certainty that the law does not yet enter into force, you have the uncertainty about the further course of the procedure. That is why the government has come to the choice of the route that is now ahead. Again, the final balance is a political one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u24	Thank you. A question from Mrs Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u25	Has the Minister already called the Council of State and does he know if they want to deal with this urgently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u26	No, Mr. Chairman. The answer to that is the same as when this question was asked last week because the government is convinced that the route now ahead is correct under state law and that another route brings with it the two facts that I indicated. The part of speed is, once again, something we can ask, we will also do so, should that be the choice, but where the Council of State is one of the players. So you can only be completely clear when the procedure has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u27	Mrs. Mulder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u28	I must say that it seems a bit like it, because the government does not want one route to examine the other route as a matter of urgency. That kind of bothers me a little bit. Actually, it's here in the Chamber: "you're slowing it down." That bothers me, so I hope that at the moment that the novel route is being started very quickly, should there be a majority in favour of Mrs Beckerman's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u29	Just as in the debate last week, there is a certain struggle between government and Chamber that the government does not see. Again, something went wrong with the vote. No one disputes that, which has created a situation that needs to be resolved. We can do that on two routes. That is not a question of being right or competing with each other. That is a question of how to solve practically a raised problem, in such a way that the people who are involved in Groningen do not suffer from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u30	I would like to support Mrs Mulder now. We can stand here doing very laconically, but there is definitely something going on. There is a crisis in Groningen, a disruptive situation, and we have been here for weeks debating a mistake that I believe the cabinet is making. There is certainly something going on when the cabinet then says that it is the fault of the Chamber that it is now being delayed, while the cabinet has waited months to send the letter after the vote on the law. I think that is a very painful thing to do and I would like one more reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u31	Mrs Beckerman uses words that the cabinet doesn't use. Mrs. Beckerman says the cabinet says it's the chamber's fault. Neither Mrs Ollongren nor I have ever used those terms. On the contrary, both today and last week, as well as in our letter, we have indicated that the issue arises as it arises, that we are looking for a practical solution, that state law also offers that space, that it is ultimately a political consideration which you choose, but that there is no blame, evil faces or whatever on our part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u32	Let me say, then, that I hope that my motions will reach a majority and that I should like to express my thanks to those Members who have supported them. We are not there yet, but I would like a letter from the cabinet immediately stating how they will implement it soon. I would point out to the Cabinet that this law had already been delayed a great deal. For example, you have chosen to shorten the participation of the Groningers in the original law with the argument "time." Then you delayed that law yourself and now you are threatening to delay it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u33	If the motion is held, you can indeed ask for a letter, but we do not know that yet. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u34	Mr. Chairman. I will provide an explanation for the first motion and Mr Ollongren the second motion. The motion in part No. 83 by Mrs Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Kops note that the government intends not to bring into force two adopted amendments and subsequently amend a new legislative proposal. It asks the government not to choose this route. Because the implication of this motion is that the novel route must be chosen, which the government has indicated is possible if you want it by majority, but that it does have the two disadvantages I have outlined, I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u35	Thank you. We're gonna clean up for a minute, and then I'm gonna give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with what Mr Blok said, which I will not repeat. I would just like to say a few words about the other motion before us, the motion in part No. 84 which states that the Second Chamber is excluded as co-legislator. Mr Blok has just said it, and I would like to repeat it: that is not the case. The cabinet informed the Chamber of the intention to choose this solution, thereby respecting the role of the House of Representatives, which we consider to be very important, namely the role of co-legislator. This does not mean that we are putting the House of Representatives out of play, quite the contrary. We do not believe that we are setting a precedent either. It is simply a way of announcing a provision already in the law, namely the differentiated entry into force, and at the same time announcing a change of law, in which the House of Representatives would have been fully involved again if the Chamber had taken part in our proposal. We'll see about that. In view of this observation and the fact that we do not believe that a precedent is being set which would lead to this, I should like to refer to the motion for a resolution on item No. 84 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u37	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-14.u38	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank both directors, as well as the MPs and the viewers at home. I'm suspending the meeting until 3:25 p.m. Then we start the debate on the development of the coronavirus.
