ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate Policy inventory and a rethinking of residential education. I welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, as well as the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate at home. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld for two minutes. It belongs to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr President. When I talk to children in a youth care institution and ask what they need to get on top of it, I hear from them very often that that is perspective, a future, the feeling that they really matter. Education is one of the most important things we can give these children. You won't be able to live at home for a while because of mental problems and have to live somewhere else. We know that these are often vulnerable children. We also know that a lot of people who have been in child care have difficulty finding a place on the labour market and that a lot of people become homeless. That is why it is so very important to educate these children. They're entitled to that. A number of years ago, we had debates on this in the Chamber on a number of occasions. The whole Chamber also voted in favour of a motion from us calling for all children in youth care institutions to receive tailor-made education. In the meantime, we're a few years away. Much has happened, we read in the letter, but we do wonder what really happened in practice. We read that there has been a policy inventory. There's gonna be another rethink this way. Regional directors have been appointed. But Corona got in the middle, and the cabinet formation makes sure there's a little delay in it. I would therefore like to know from the Minister when this rethink is coming this way. It says it's coming in the autumn, and it's also autumn now, of course. Mr. Chairman. Then I have another motion. It is about financing regions that are already pre-empting this rethink. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the transformation in the Youth Care Plus from large-scale to small-scale living facilities has an impact on education;]] [[noting that some regions should wait for the rethinking of residential education and the formation of a new cabinet;]] [[Whereas each child is entitled to tailor-made education;]] [[Whereas the financing of education for these children should not depend on the forthcoming rethink or the course of formation;]] [[calls on the Government to provide additional financial support, where appropriate, for the education of young people living in these small-scale housing facilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-417]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-13.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld has said so well about the importance of perspective and education for children in youth care; I really do not improve that anymore. I'm gonna give up my two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you. Saves time. Then we won't have any more speakers. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. How much time do you need for the motion? Can you do it right away, or do you need time for that? The Minister can take the floor immediately, so I give the floor to the Minister. I need to see how to get that cathedral up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll get the motion as soon as I can, I suppose. Then I can answer the questions put by Mrs Westerveld, who have been warmly supported by Mr Peters, but who may also live with other Members of Parliament. I remember very well when you tabled that motion on behalf of GroenLinks. At that time, we also agreed to follow very closely what is happening in the world of justice and care. There, however, developments were increasing at a fairly rapid pace. We also noted with each other that education was too much to follow and that this sometimes caused problems. These were problems in the education offered in the closed youth care system, which must have a certain volume in order to maintain genuinely high quality education, but sometimes also in terms of the impact on schools in areas where youth care became more open and children went to schools. It was also about the partnerships. I'm just thinking about what we've been through in Gelderland in the Gelder Valley. That's what got us into trouble there. At that time, I promised you that, as a result of the Westerveld motion, we would also take a precise look at the bottlenecks that were there and, on that basis, we would agree again on how we would proceed. That information came your way as early as December 2020. At that time, we found that the bottlenecks fell into two categories. We had the really specific education issues that were very often related to funding and who was responsible for them. This was just about the discussions about what a partnership should do when a lot of students suddenly come in and ask for extra money. The second bottleneck was really in the area of justice and concern, about the movement supported by the Chamber in itself to move towards more small scale and more openness. So what are the implications for education? And to what extent can we continue to ensure a good offer for the pupils who end up in a new setting and who no longer have the automation of a closed institution where education is offered? Meanwhile, LECSO has started working with a project group, as you know. LECSO has led a project group Small-Scale Facilities, which has also extended an opinion. That advice was given to you. So that's what you've come to do. We also spoke in April, following The Hoenderloo Group. I think that next month, in October, you will get the new update on the state of play, as you were promised. But we're in a special situation right now. Also in view of the fact that the cabinet is decommissioned and that negotiations are not yet being conducted in which we get more clarity and direction, including from the Chamber, for example on how we deal with youth care, the choices that need to be made depend very much on what political direction is going to be taken. This applies in particular to choices relating to the first track, but also to choices relating to the second track. For example, if a different choice is made in the heavy youth care system, which now rests with the municipalities, then it will have consequences for the way in which we have to anticipate it in education. We do have all kinds of scenarios ready for what could be done. That's what we promised you. But it depends on the longer-term choices that are made. With you, I hope that won't take too long. When we saw just before the summer that it might take some time, you know that I speak in these terms, I have also realised that there will be an intermediate situation that is not pleasant. That is also what I sent you in the note following the report of the written consultation. We have made the choice to ensure that at least in the Youth Plus regions there is a regional director. It's seven regions. There are a couple of care spokesmen here who might even be able to name them all, but there are seven regions. Excuse the term "region director," but you have to give it a name. These people will all be working in the next few weeks. That really is our commitment. A lot of work has been done on this and agreements have also been made with the VO-Council. They need to find the link between municipalities, the partnerships of the FVO and the Youth Services Plus regions; in short, between all those involved in such a region. They must also pick up the signals if problems are to arise. I would almost say that they should be of service to do everything with each other to ensure that if there is a problem, the problem is avoided. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the motion. What are we getting ourselves from signals about problems? They're really very diverse. At a time when the number of young people in the closed care sector is shrinking, we can see that this is putting pressure on education. On the other hand, a number of young people sometimes remain in a specific region, increasing the pressure on that region and finding solutions. We have, of course, already had an example of this; so have we in the case discussed with the Chamber. Whatever I can give you, it ties in with the motion. At the moment when directional statements are made again, we can take the follow-up steps and work with these people. Where necessary, we are also trying to find financial solutions to the problems that exist. I know there's a problem in North Holland. We're gonna try to fix that with each other. If a problem bounces up somewhere else, we will also get to work and we will simply try to make sure that the problem is solved, that the young people are just going to get the education they are entitled to and that is so important to them and that funding is then arranged for it. If that doesn't work, I'll of course let you know. If I may understand the motion in this way, so if you would like us to work in that way in the coming period, until solutions are really invented for the longer term, perhaps this can simply be taken into account; I say that in your direction too, because I would not rule that out altogether................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you. I see that, despite the positive opinion, Mrs Westerveld still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-13.u7	I welcome the answers and the Minister's response, and I am also pleased that the problem is being taken so seriously. I would like to ask him one more question, because we continue to receive signals, including from young people and their parents, that it is very difficult, for example, to get education at VWO level. Of course, it is very often the case that children who are in a youth care institution are also concerned with other matters. They often have a lot of problems and it is often very difficult to get education. But I would love it very much if more were to be done to ensure that they, also because of their admission to an institution, do not fall any further behind in school. Perhaps the lessons learned from the corona crisis and online education could also be included in the plans being made. I am not a fan of online education, but I can imagine that this could be a solution for young people temporarily admitted to a youth care institution. This way they can continue to participate in their class, even if they cannot be physically present temporarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-13.u8	I think we should look at it in a very practical way. That's why I just said that we should try to find hands-on solutions to problems. Then it can indeed be very nice for some young people to have distance education. Maybe a combination is possible, where they can just go to school. That is also a lesson that we have already learned from the corona time. I mean that we want to use this much more concretely, even for those who are already completely excluded from education, because they are no longer affiliated and are no longer at home. As far as I am concerned, that is part of the approach for this target group as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-13.u10	There's been one motion filed. This will be voted on on 5 October. That's next Tuesday. I thank the Minister. I thank all those who have followed this debate. I'm suspending for a single moment. In a moment we will proceed with the next two-minute debate.
