ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u1	The next item is the debate on the progress of the extradition of Julio Poch to Argentina. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. I'm glad you're back with us. We have six speakers from the Chamber. Everyone's got four minutes. The first speaker is also the applicant for this debate, and that is Mr Markuszower of the Party for Freedom Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The trials against Geert Wilders, the surcharge affair and the actions of the Dutch state against Julio Poch: all three examples of how powerless and vulnerable citizens can be when the ruthless state decides to launch the attack on them. This ministry has acted unjustly against Julio Poch. Hopefully today, the Chamber will force the Minister to stop the legal struggle against Poch and compensate him for the suffering and damage suffered to him. Because Julio Poch was de facto extradited by the Netherlands to Argentina. This disguised extradition by CDA Minister Hirsch Ballin was unlawful. Julio Poch was innocent, but because the Netherlands extradited him to Argentina for eight years in an Argentine cell. Although Julio Poch was a Dutch citizen, the Netherlands never gave him access to funded legal assistance. However, CDA Minister Hirsch Ballin, the predecessor of CDA's Grapperhaus, paid the bill of the lawyer of those who falsely accused Julio Poch. That is very remarkable and very exceptional, especially since Hirsch offered Ballin proactively to pay these bills. All that is evil and devilish about CDA policy is a lot, chairman of Hirsch Ballin comes together in the person of Hirsch Ballin. To this day, the Netherlands continues to act illegally against Julio Poch. Openness of business is not given, not to Julio Poch and not to the House of Representatives. And the minister refuses to compensate Julio Poch for everything that's been done to him. The Minister spares no effort to achieve this. Instead of coming to an agreement with Julio Poch, the Secretary of State, Julio Poch, is suing. The Minister misuses the Machielse Committee's report as a means of civil proceedings. As a result, the Minister acts in literal contradiction with his written promise to the Chamber, made on 12 April 2019, in which he informed the Chamber that the Machielse Committee had not been set up to impede the civil proceedings. The action of Minister Grapperhaus in the Poch case is no different than to describe 'dirty'. The committee set up by the Minister is, as we often see in committees of this kind, totally independent. Machielse and Myjer have always worked for the Justice Department. They're men from the Ministry, men from Grapperhaus. They are no expert at all in the field of international criminal law, and they did not want to hear any real expert in this field either. They didn't even want to hear Julio Poch for themselves. Besides, Myjer has been with Hirsch Ballin for years and years! Member of another committee. So Minister Grapperhaus put Hirsch Ballin's incompetent friends on a money laundering committee with the sole aim of putting Hirsch Ballin's shit under the carpet. They, on that committee, heard 13 people. Of those thirteen, twelve worked for the government, ten even directly for Grapperhaus and one was Hirsch Ballin. Those witnesses almost all turned out to be infected with the forgetfulness virus. The conclusions of this report have therefore been heavily criticised by renowned international criminal law experts on the content. The conclusions of this non-independent report cannot therefore be taken seriously as a Chamber; let us be honest. The life of Julio Poch and his family was destroyed because CDA Justice Minister Hirsch Ballin directed him towards an Argentine cell. Now there's another secretary of CDA house at the same ministry. So far, he has done everything he can to cover up the unlawful actions of his CDA predecessor. As a result, to this day Julio Poch has not been compensated for the damage and suffering that the Netherlands State has done to him. My group calls on the Minister to remedy this injustice, because Julio Poch is entitled to a sum to compensate for the debts he had to incur in order to prove his innocence and to return safely to the Netherlands. But that amount must also be due to the years that have been taken from him, years in which he could still have worked and where he could have enjoyed his children and grandchildren in peace and safety. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u3	Thank you. Then we go to Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The story of Mr Poch is well known. A Dutch citizen has been in a cell in Argentina for years unjustly, with the cooperation of the Netherlands. There was a covert extradition, a trick. Julio Poch is a bit of an Argentine cell messed up. The Netherlands itself could not extradite and shared flight data, so that the Argentines could arrest him in Spain. The consequences are known. At the time, the Minister knew about this, interfered and agreed to it. There is even involvement of circles around the Royal House. Eventually, Mr Poch was acquitted for lack of evidence, after eight years in custody, at the hands of the Netherlands. That's why Julio Poch's case has been bothering us for years. Because should it be, what the Netherlands has done? Is this the right way to extradite your own subject? If so, on what basis? Did the Netherlands have a choice when Argentina asked for cooperation? The Minister put a committee to work, the Machielse Commission. That wouldn't interfere with the civil proceedings, but that's exactly what the country's attorney tried to do as soon as it suited him. How does the Minister explain that? That committee concludes, without hearing any further information, that Dutch action has been legitimate. The Netherlands could simply rely on the Argentines. However, leading criminal experts crack down on the Machielse committee's conclusion that the Netherlands is not to blame in the Poch case. Was the Netherlands obliged to cooperate with the Argentine authorities in the Poch case? No, they say. This is very complicated legal matter, really fine grinding. Very important, but I do not think there is anything to resolve or settle in this debate. I have one question about this. Would the Netherlands do this again next time? If so, then nothing has been learned; if no, then something has gone wrong. For not everything that is permitted by law, if that were so, can be sensible, just or repeated. I would like to make two further points for this debate. One: the information position and control of the Chamber. Two: how is Mr. Poch and what is the state doing towards him? Because in this case, too, the Chamber has been misinformed. All kinds of documents have not been sent to the Chamber, despite repeated requests. Article 68 of the Constitution, a new administrative culture, remember? At first, we weren't actively informed. Every time journalists had to figure out what happened in this case. Parliamentary questions followed. Then we filed motions to get documents, but we didn't get the documents, because the Machielse Committee was investigating. I thought that was a strange argument, because the appointment of a committee cannot, of course, override Article 68 of the Constitution. But then it gets worse, because then we still didn't get the requested documents, because the Machielse committee simply sent them back to the senders or saw the documents alone. What kind of documents doesn't the Minister have in his archives that the Machielse Commission did? We need to be able to check this out as a room. Why do we, as the Chamber, not have crucial documents on which the Machielse Committee of Inquiry had the power? This is about finding the truth. Can we have Argentina's legal aid request, and now? The journal of the liaison of early 2008, the report of that first mission to Argentina, I would also like to take a look at right away. Then Mr. Poch himself. Apart from the conclusions of Machielse and everything that is on the other side, apart from the fact that we cannot control this as a Chamber because we do not get all the documents, which is a very bad thing, we may not be able to find out entirely tonight whether the Netherlands has acted unlawfully or not. But it was unthoughtful and hasty, and it is true that everything has gone extremely badly for Mr Poch; then I express myself very softly. Surely it can be generously admitted that mistakes have been made? It is true that if he had been wrongly in a Dutch cell, there would have been a great deal of compensation paid. Now it has happened in Argentina and the Netherlands does not feel responsible, while the Netherlands has clearly had a hand in this. So my call is clear. Bury the hatchet. Don't go to court and train about this for years. Acknowledge the suffering for Mr Poch. Recognize what happened. Get recognition and compensation. Set up an arrangement, from a humanitarian point of view and a coulance. Why isn't that happening? Is the Minister prepared to do so after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u5	Thank you. Then Mr Sjoerdsma of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u6	Mr. Chairman. I tried to imagine what it would feel like to spend 3,000 days of your life, because that's about what it's like for Mr. Poch to be taken from you, if you spend 3,000 days innocently in a jail cell in remand. 3,000 days of retirement evaporated, 3,000 days of no family. That if your daughters get married, you weren't there to give them away. That six grandchildren are born and raised in your absence. How to watch chained while your family heads-down. That's Julio Poch's story. Previous speakers have also mentioned this. His life was ruined without any clear evidence. I ask the Minister how he looks at this, how he looks back at what has happened here, that the Netherlands has actually provoked Argentina's request for legal aid to hand him over to Argentina via a covert extradition via Spain. How does the Minister look back on that? How does he look back on this legal magic trick? Following on from previous speakers, does the Minister not think it would be more worthy to make an arrangement with Mr Poch on behalf of the Dutch State? Does he not think that it would be more worthy to talk to Mr Poch on the basis of an attitude of coulance and humanity and to make up for the suffering that has been done? I'd like a response from the Minister. Why hasn't he done it yet? Why could he possibly do it now? A lot is said about Minister Hirsch Ballin, but this minister, for example, had promised not to simply postpone the committee report in the civil proceedings. The state's attorney tried that without a hint. The judge then stopped it. I don't think that's a behavior that fits this case. Mr. Chairman. "Is that case necessary now? It's so painful for Máxima." A quote from Mr Machielse's report. It has indeed become painful, on the one hand, for the Ministry of Justice, which worked with man and power on a goat path for extradition to Argentina. It is also painful and damaging to the prestige of the Royal House and the independence of the rule of law, now that the suggestion continues to exist, because it is not being investigated that the Royal House would have wanted to have influence on this criminal case, on this investigation. That's undesirable for the Royal House. It's bad for the reputation if this appearance persists. It is even more undesirable for our rule of law, if possible, for people who are members of the Royal House to appear to be able to exercise unpunished influence. Does the Minister agree with me that this appearance is undesirable? This incident has been extensively documented by the Machielse Commission. Can the Minister have this examined independently, after earlier it became clear that the Reichscherche was not in the mood for this because of the limitation period? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the handling of Article 68 of the Constitution. On 14 March 2018, I asked this Minister if he could send interview reports to the Chamber. The Minister claimed that he did not have these interview reports at the time. On 11 July 2019 I asked him for the travel reports. The Minister also refused and ignored the Wob request. He wanted to send him a document that, I suspect, was convenient. But when Mr Van Nispen and I then wanted to receive another document, the Minister could hide behind the Machielse Committee. He then refused to send these documents. I very much agree with those Members who say that having a committee of inquiry cannot be a reason for Article 68 to lapse. The Chamber has requested documents. The Minister says that we have not yet filed it in such a way that I can give it to him. It's been six months since the committee's done its job. I would be surprised if both gentlemen were not structured and have not left a structured archive. I would therefore ask that, for the second term of this debate, the request for legal aid from Argentina and the journal of the first mission be sent. Because perhaps the Minister thinks this is a difficult dossier that he likes to put forward, or maybe kick it. But this isn't a file. This is a human being. Man's name is Julio Poch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u7	Thank you. Mr Ellian from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u8	Mr. Chairman. We three them in the sea. This statement has continued to haunt Julio Poch for a very long time. This one's probably gonna haunt him for the rest of his life. With this pronunciation began hell on earth for Julio Poch. But making this ruling has ultimately led to what is called "hearing" in law. Others said they heard something. Those who had heard this statement from Julio Poch. It follows from the famous 1926 Supreme Court audition judgment that a statement of hearsay can only give rise to a presumption of truth. A key rule in criminal law, almost worldwide, is that at least two means of proof are needed to prove legally and convincingly that someone has committed a criminal offence. I am asking the question here, which is probably rhetorical, to my regret what evidence there were against Julio Poch. The Argentine court unanimously couldn't find one. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my input along three lines: the Machielse Committee, which continues for Julio Poch and the future. The Machielse Committee has done a great deal of work. He's studied countless pieces. There were 19,000 or 17,000, at least a lot of them. But what was the committee set up for again? I would like to paraphrase that one more time, including for the Acts. What was the involvement of successive Justice Ministers? What considerations have played a role in taking the view that any persecution of Mr Poch in Argentina was more reason than persecution in the Netherlands? What considerations have been made in the conduct and actions relating to contacts between the judicial authorities of the Netherlands and other countries on possible forms of legal assistance and the acts that have been carried out? Okay, that was the assignment. Through you, Mr President, I ask the Minister: how does this relate to the pages of conclusions and legal findings? How does this relate to the conclusion on legality? Because the committee has not been asked to pass a judgment on legality. Mr. Chairman. Those findings are totally uncontrollable to us, no matter how extensive they are. No piece is insightful. We have no insight into the conversations; there is only one bibliography. Without completely disqualifying the report, I said to a colleague: at university I would have gotten an incompetence for this. How does the Minister view this? How would he describe the value of the report himself? How would he himself describe the value of the report and how would he indicate the value of the report to the Chamber? What does the Minister think of the fact that the Committee comments on an Argentine judgment without knowing the case file? What does that say about the committee's independence? We get all the pieces on December 1st. I'm looking forward to that. I imagine some of the pieces might come sooner. I await the response to the request made by my colleagues. Then the future. From the above, Mr. Poch has nothing at all. The suffering has been suffered and the lost years he will not get back. The question of guilt can be debated for a long time, but what now? What about him and his family? Does he really have to sue the Dutch State for years now that he is 70 years old? Surely it is clear that if the Netherlands had not shared the flight data, Poch would not have ended up in Argentina? A simple condition sine qua non, for the lawyers among us, but in ordinary human language: causal relationship. A scientific connection, such as the students now learning from the doctrine of the tortious act. That's the harsh reality, a reality that Julio Poch and his family have to live with for the rest of their lives. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees a continuation of the talks with Julio Poch, rather than lengthy procedures. Wouldn't it be better if there was a maximum effort to do justice to the situation and to the suffering that Julio Poch has suffered? I'd like to hear the Minister's answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u9	One more question from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u10	I would like to ask Mr Ellian of the VVD the same question that Mr Ellian has put to the Minister. What does the VVD see as the best route and the best outcome of such a conversation? More specifically, does the VVD support that Poch is compensated for the damage and suffering caused to him by the Dutch State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u11	That is a fair question put by Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV. I am going to reply to that somewhat legally, without prejudice to the position of Julio Poch. Otherwise, I wouldn't have asked the Minister. I find it complicated when the Chamber intervenes in individual procedures, because then the question always arises: why one does and not the other? I keep finding that complicated myself. Mr Poch's lawyer announced today a ground procedure. I express the fervent hope and wish that this will not become reality, that the Minister will continue the talks and that a solution will eventually be found. As far as I am concerned, that is the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u12	Thank you for the answer, but there are no talks now between the Minister and Julio Poch. There aren't any. What is going on is that there is a civil procedure and the Minister, also in fact on behalf of this Chamber, as long as we do not whistle back to the Minister, Julio Poch, who is going to sue him, in terms of time and money. The question is: what is the VVD group going to do to get the minister to take another course of action, another route?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u13	I think it suits me to await the Minister's reply, but I have prepared a motion for a resolution. Mr Markuszower is right: if we want a different direction, it is important for the Chamber to give a ruling on this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u14	I would like to congratulate Mr Ellian on this line. I think it is very sensible that we should do this as a Chamber in this way. That's a new twist in this case. Where I almost lose him is when he says that we should not interfere in individual procedures. I see that a little bit different. Look, I understand this reluctance: we do not interfere in procedures, we do not judge judgments of judges and so on. But here it is unmistakable, in my view, that we agree that a Dutch citizen has been messed up or ended up in an Argentine cell by the Dutch government and has been in it for years. If the Netherlands had not done so, it would not have happened. It is very common for an administrative body or the State to have been harmed as someone trying to correct it and not to force that person into proceedings. And now we're the party that the minister can whistle back. How do we interfere in individual procedures? You can expect a representative of the people to ask the minister to do something nice or to order it to do so if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u15	I think Mr Van Nispen is asking a fair question here too. I see it this way: now that a ground procedure has been announced, it means that this sad case is unfortunately once again under the judge. Then you might ask yourself, what is the role of the Chamber in that? I agree with you: we are also here to solve problems for people. We represent the importance of a lot of people. But what I find difficult is that I tasted it in your speech, but also in that of others, in order to be completely legally pinpointed where the liability lies. I think this is a bad word. I don't think I should decide if the State is responsible. What I do think is that we need to change direction. We shouldn't give that man nightmares again about countless procedures that take a very long time, as I know from experience. I hope Mr. Poch lives for a very long time, but his children can continue the procedure. We shouldn't do that to that man and his kids. I am thinking of a different direction, a different attitude of the Minister in the sense of "I'm really gonna try to get out." Of course, that also requires something from Mr. Poch. I think that we can ask the Minister very well, but I do not want to interfere in the question of who is liable and how much liability is and how much damage is. I don't think that's up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u16	I can still understand that. I don't think I did either. I did not say that the Netherlands is liable and this amount must be against it. I would find it remarkable if I, as a Member of Parliament, were to take on such a role. I think we're pretty much on the same page. I think it is worth a compliment to Mr Ellian that he is in line with me. No, that's crazy, but we really agree on this. I hear him in this way: what the Minister has done now, which is to close the door in his talks with Mr Poch and force him into years of proceedings at his age, which may not bring a solution and which will cost a lot of money, time and additional suffering, is not the way. The Minister must try to get out. That's the call the VVD is making today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u17	Absolutely. I make this appeal with strength, not only because of Mr Poch's age, but because of the circumstances we have exchanged here. You can also include the costs on the side of the State. That is what I heard Mr Van Nispen and Mr Sjoerdsma say. In the end, it's balancing and I'm expressing the fiery hope of second term I'm going to see if I need to add some adjectives to that... that all circumstances lead to a maximum effort to get out, together with Julio Poch's lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u18	Thank you. Mrs Kuik from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u19	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about one man tonight, but this man is exemplary for a bigger picture, which is that if you have the State against you, you can be totally destroyed. Mr Sjoerdsma described that more catchy than I can. But the story isn't on its own, because we saw it in the supplemental affair. We have seen in other cases that loners or simple persons are faced with the State and where that can lead. In this case, it was eight years in prison and then acquittal. I would therefore like to join those who say that if this had happened to you in the Netherlands, it would have automatically led to a settlement. I sincerely wonder why this is not possible in the same way in this case. I also sincerely wonder why the cabinet is hiding behind the Machielse investigation. For you may have acted lawfully, but that does not relieve you of the duty to do the right thing when someone is acquitted. In my opinion, these are two things that do not have to be the same one-on-one. I would like a reaction from the cabinet, because I think it is extremely painful, extremely unfortunate and extremely unnecessary that we are now in this situation and that a trial is needed to arrive at a fair and reasonable settlement, while someone has been innocent for eight years because he has been acquitted. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the information. There, too, we see a pattern. We are constantly talking about the new governance culture in this house, but there is no culture, at least no new one, because we still have the same culture of covering up, hiding away, moving forward and not delivering. Whether it's about Wob requests or chamber requests, every time a new trick, a new excuse or a new reason is made up why information doesn't have to be given. Now it's again because the archive isn't complete yet and it still needs to be sorted out. Then we are three months further, while the first requests date back to 2018. I would therefore like to know what great importance should be covered here, so that we are not allowed to receive this information and not to receive it. It can only be said that there are very important interests which mean that information is constantly hidden away or not made public, because we have Article 68 for a reason. Article 68 must and cannot remain a wash nose, as it often turns out in this house. So I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President, the role of the Royal House. That too remains vague and shady. Machielse refers to it, but there will be no clarification. There too, we simply want clarification. The Royal House has to be independent. It has a special role to play. We respect them, but there too, all doubt must be removed. This can only be done when we get all the pieces clearly and clearly above the table and when there is transparency, as is the case with the new cabinet. A new governance culture demands openness, asks honesty and also dares to say: sorry, we did wrong; we put a line under it and we continue with the future. But if we can't even deal with the past properly, how can we have a clean lead into the future? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u20	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poch has been in detention for eight years. That was unprecedentedly difficult for him and his neighbors. The question is: what was the role and contribution of the Netherlands? What considerations have been made regarding the investigation and prosecution of Mr Poch? The Machielse Committee has been investigating this for two years. It has seen thousands of documents in order to come up with a factual account and answer the research questions. There are several professors and experts who disagree on whether or not the Torture Convention provides a basis for extradition and/or legal assistance. How's the minister looking at this? And how does he look at the discussion that is taking place on this subject? Mr. Chairman. We have a number of questions and comments on this matter, but we also have some difficulties or reservations. In fact, there is now a civil proceeding concerning the illegal or non-restrictive behaviour of the Dutch authorities vis-à-vis Mr Poch. Think of a possible claim for damages as well. Of course, the judge has the floor. In principle, it is not appropriate for us as a Chamber to intervene in this. But is today's coverage of a letter from the state's attorney correct? Is it true that Mr Poch will not receive satisfaction from the Netherlands? Why wasn't the Chamber informed about that? I thought you said the Minister was gonna start the conversation on the basis of the report. Is that what happened? How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u22	Mrs. Palland says the judge has to judge. But when the judge had really had to judge, namely when a CDA member, a party colleague of Mrs Palland, handed Mr Poch over and therefore did not do so through the judge, I did not hear the CDA group. Can Mrs Palland of the CDA reflect on the behavior of Hirsch Ballin, on that disguised extradition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u23	Yes. Assuming that I am not an expert on this international criminal justice system, Mr Machielse has, of course, done it with his committee. We have also been able to fully follow the considerations that have been made in this regard. I have, of course, heard it; that is why I am asking a question about it. I have also listened to the Argos broadcast in which a number of other experts say: where the Machielse committee concludes this, I would have come to a different conclusion. But it is also the other way around: Mr Machielse said that perhaps something else should have been done, but the professor in question thought that it could be done again. There was, of course, a tension about whether you should submit it to an extradition judge. It doesn't happen often. It could also be a legal aid request for information. That playing field is therefore wider than just that consideration, also because it was a serious suspicion. You want to prevent people from taking the flight forward and, in that sense, getting out of the dance or losing information. Those considerations have all been made and we have been able to read them back in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u24	Mrs Palland calls Machielse an expert. So he's not. But apart from that, did Hirsch Ballin act correctly at the time, according to Mrs Palland of the CDA? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u25	I'll sail on the independent investigation that's taken place. Thousands of documents have been weighed and examined. It states that there has been no political interference and that there has been proper action in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u26	Mrs Palland is right to point out how distressing it has been for Mr Poch. Previous speakers have in fact all argued in different terms, but I think it is about the same thing that Mr Poch should be talking about coulance and reconciliation rather than continuing a trial, perhaps even after his death. The question to the CDA Group is: which side of the rope is it on right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u27	That is precisely why I have asked the questions I have just asked. The Minister indicated earlier that he would have a discussion with Mr Poch following the publication of the Machielse report. So I'm gonna ask you what's going on with these conversations. I find it complicated that there is a trial going on right now, but I am not asking questions about whether or not satisfaction is coming from the Netherlands. I'm referring to the message we received today. How's that going? I would therefore like to have an explanation from the Minister, precisely because of this distressing situation for Mr Poch. Then I would like to add my voice to the comments made by Mr Ellian. It is not up to us to determine the degree of liability for the Netherlands or the level of compensation. The fact that Mr Poch was in custody for eight years was not foreseeable, even from the Netherlands. He should be in custody for up to three years. That is still terrible, but the expectation was that this would be a maximum of three years. There is perhaps also a question for Argentina: what is the situation there? But I agree with you. I am not asking these questions for nothing, and I would like to get an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u28	We all have questions for this Minister, but I am afraid to answer one of them. A ground procedure has been initiated. If there has been a discussion between this minister and Mr Poch and his counsellor, then I think we can guess what the outcome of that: no step has been taken. I agree with you that the Chamber is not about the level of compensation and the method of compensation. I do not think that is what we want to argue today, but it is about a different attitude of the State. I can see that much wider. This brings me back to this question, which I believe can already be answered by the CDA. Should this minister continue on the current road, the path we have seen him take for several years now, or does the CDA say with the other part of the Chamber: this is a ruinous road; given what has happened, something else is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u29	I think we all want to put a point behind this, especially for Mr Poch himself. The shortest route to it is to discuss it with each other. That would be my question and my request. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u30	I would like to mention the urgent appeal made by Mrs Palland that we should not intervene in an ongoing case. You know, I understand that. We have a separation of powers, and we stick to that very well and meticulously. But at the moment, there is no case at all. There are a lot of lawsuits, about everything and everything. If we can't find anything more, we can shut it down here. Imagine what would have happened if we... There were also extracurricular parents, victims, who undoubtedly also had procedures running. Imagine what would have happened if we in the Chamber had not said something about it: something really has to be done here, so solve it! It's totally incomparable; I realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u31	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u32	But I would like to say that you cannot say too easily: we cannot find that much more of this. I would therefore like to know a little more firmly from Mrs Palland what she now thinks the Minister should do. It's gonna be a choice in the end. I understand we're gonna hear the Minister's answers, but I want to know if we're gonna continue on this route, where the conversations have gone dead and Mr. Poch has to go to trial if he's gonna get his rights. That's gonna take years, and it's gonna cost a lot of money. We just know that, so let's be real about that. Either we continue on that path, or we call on the Minister tonight in a question or, if necessary, a motion to do justice and finally to compensate Mr Poch. It is not about quantity and not about liability, but about humanitarian considerations and an attitude of coulance. In my view, that would be a decent solution that is just.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u33	I believe that your appeal is in line with the questions I have asked. How are we doing on those calls? I also believe that these should take place. I think that's enough as a signal I want to hear the Minister's response to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u34	We do know those conversations died, don't we? We know that. We can ask that question, but then the Minister's gonna say that there are no more talks. We already know that. That is why the question is: if we know that, what should the Minister do now? Then how do you judge the fact that these conversations broke down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u35	Well, then it is the motivation to do so, but not for nothing I am once again asking questions about the report by the national attorney that Mr Poch would not be satisfied. I think that this should be discussed. I think this is a clear statement and an appeal to see if we can put an end to this matter, especially for Mr Poch, and come to a conclusion. That is what I would like to discuss with the Minister. If he comes up with the remark 'there are no more talks, point', then we will have to follow-up questions in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u36	And what follow-up questions can we expect? After all, we already know that these conversations broke down. So I would suggest that we ask these questions straight away. After all, we already know what the status is, namely that Mr Poch should go to trial. We just know this is happening now. We know it's gonna take years and it's gonna cost a lot of money. So we can now ask each other: what do you think of the state forcing Mr Poch into such an endless, costly procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u37	I am repeating myself a little, because I think I have joined the call to put an end to this and not go to trial for a very long time. That seems clear enough to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u38	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u39	The Machielse Committee noted in its conclusion that it is remarkable that at the time the investigation of the CIE (criminal intelligence unit) also became apparent in the policy phase outside the circle of the National Investigation Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I ask the Minister: how is this possible? And more importantly, how will this be prevented in future? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question on access to documents, which several colleagues have also asked for. There is a lack of clarity as to which documents the committee has had access to have immediately returned to the services and are therefore not available in the archives, so that the Minister cannot consider making them available to the Chamber on the basis of Rule 68. Is that right? How are we going to solve this and above all: how are we going to prevent this next time? In a broader sense, the Machielse Commission also notes problems of archiving with most of the authorities involved, both in the paper archives and in the digital archives. We have, of course, already seen this as a wider Chamber, and have also called on the cabinet to take action, but once again we have stressed its importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u40	Thank you. A question from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u41	That importance is rightly underlined, but it remains a little vague to me. Let me put it this way: at least I am pissed off about the information in this file, how many times we have had to ask for documents and how many times they have been refused. This is happening again under the guise of: yes, six months ago that was achieved, but we still have no insight into the structure of the archive, so we cannot deliver two requested documents. I know your group as a champion of Rule 68. At least that was the case in the previous period. How do you judge what's going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u42	If the Court asks for information, it must of course be provided, even if an individual Member so requests. We have all taken note of the Minister's argument. It is thousands of documents that need to be looked at and searched for whether it can be traced back to persons and whether there is state-sensitive information that can be used against the State. I can understand that. On the other hand, I believe that a search request can be set out in relation to very specific information questions, documents. The general question 'we want to see everything', as we in the Chamber ask, and whatever we have the right to do, requires a great deal of analysis and time. I can understand that. If we can define it and present it in a targeted manner, I assume that can come to us in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u43	I find that a reassuring answer. Not so long ago, the Omtzigt motion was adopted here in the Chamber by 150 votes, stating that if a Member of Parliament asks for certain documents to be delivered within a reasonable period of time. Well, it's a coincidence that two pieces have been requested, two clear pieces. I will not repeat that again here, but we have asked for it for the second term. I would like to ask Mrs Palland whether she would also support that request. In my opinion, these are two pieces that should be easy to find, even in this 17,000-page mishap, as the Minister described it in his letter. They're obviously important pieces. Does the CDA support that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u44	If a colleague asks for information and that is acceptable, I certainly support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u45	Clear. Thank you. So much for the first term of office. At 7:30 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Minister's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u46	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u47	Mr President, thank you. In this debate this evening, we are talking about a case that has been going on for a long time, actually for far too long. For a long time there was uncertainty in that case about the role of the Dutch government. I will come back to that in a moment, but that is why I asked an independent committee to investigate it two years ago. I shall come back to all of this, but first I would like to address the person directly involved in this case. As I have said and written before, it must have been hard for Mr Poch and his neighbors to have been detained in Argentina for many years. I had a personal meeting with Mr Poch and his lawyer in April of this year. That meeting impressed me. From the conversation we had, it became very clear that the consequences for Mr Poch and his relatives of that long period in remand are still continuing and eating at him. I think it's good to rename that here. I am also aware that it must have been difficult for those who have declared that this is a matter by virtue of their civic duty. They subsequently found that they were being held guilty of what Mr Poch had to undergo, and that also had a major impact on their lives. For example, this case, as unfortunately happens sometimes, has only known losers. Mr. Chairman. The Machielse Committee's report contains important conclusions on this matter. These conclusions have been drawn after thorough and thorough research. I don't want to take anything away from that. I support and refer to the conclusions of that committee, but from a humanitarian point of view I would also like to conclude that Mr Poch has been inadequate. I do not want to hold on to who is responsible for this, here or elsewhere in Argentina. I had the conversation I had with Mr. Poch and his lawyers working on me. I think it's a job of the Dutch government to help here. In this context, I do not go into what we discussed in that discussion and in the further contacts that we had without me, and what has gone on and on, because we have agreed on confidentiality and I respect that. I would like to go back to what Mrs Kuik said, because that is what I like to say, and that is precisely the dilemma that I am actually in from about the beginning of my presidency. I'll quote Mrs. Chicken. If I'm not doing that right, she really needs to correct me. She said: you may have acted lawfully, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't do the right thing. That is, I say quite honestly, the dilemma that is playing out for me, especially in the light of the report by the Machielse Committee. Let me make it clear that, as far as we are concerned, the talks have never ended, but if we do not get any further at some point, then I think that I should take an unconditional step on behalf of the government to break the deadlock, because that is part of the role and responsibility of the government. That is why I have decided to grant Mr Poch a concession based on the full daily allowance for wrongful detention. I will double that because the detention took place in Argentina, with all the difficult circumstances that were involved. I do not mean cynically if I draw some parallels with the metaphor of the tropics, because it was, of course, even more difficult and complicated for his neighbors to get there and to find their way into the legal system. Those are the circumstances that play a role in this. Finally, I will make a substantial contribution to the costs incurred by Mr Poch for his lawyers. Mr. Chairman. I would just like to make it clear that this is a unilateral decision of mine. So it's not an offer that can be withdrawn again or anything like that. It's an irrevocable commitment. It has already been announced, but I will report that to Mr Poch's lawyer again tomorrow. If Mr. Poch and his lawyer think it should be different in law, then that is not up to me. I'd like to prelude on one thing. I took the state's defence with me for a while. Mr Sjoerdsma said something about that. In the defence in the continued preliminary hearing, the State expressly stated that the report of the Machielse Committee should not in any way impede the conduct of a ground procedure. Anyway, I think I make it clear that I agree with Mr Van Nispen and some other Members that the government can take an unconditional step to indicate that you have to come out of such an impasse and not get into it. Mr. Chairman. In 2019, I personally informed Mr. Poch's lawyer that I had decided to do so shortly after that note had gone to your Chamber to have an independent committee collect all the documents everywhere and then report on them. In fact, I felt that Mr Poch was right to have all those pieces there, rather than the fact that I would immediately like to acknowledge here that this was always a bite from all kinds of services. That's what you'll find in my letter to your room. That is why I say: I have a lot to say in your Chamber and I am very critical, but I would like to point out that I have always advocated openness and independence in this matter. I understand the involvement of your Chamber in the matter, precisely because it has had such a huge impact on an individual. That is why, when the committee came up with its report, I promised that after it had been in my ministry's possession, that was at the end of June of this year; I really asked for it repeatedly, but well, that is what it is, in order to be able to provide the documents under Article 68 of the Constitution to your Chamber. This is an extensive archive of at least 17,000 pages. It will take some time to go through it. I will go into a few requests for individual pieces and those pieces of the royal family, but I would like to make this quite clear first. I expect to deliver the documents to you by 1 December at the latest. I'm doing the best I can to advance that. I can also say now that we have attracted additional people to this and that I am even considering helping another external party to speed that up, because it is really a rather complicated process, I can assure you. Mr. Chairman. Then I actually wanted to move on to the various questions that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u48	Mr Markuszower's interrupting speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u49	I think it is a good thing that the Minister starts with the introduction as it has been given, but I cannot escape the impression that this is a bit of a flight forward. My question to the Minister is: if this is the Minister's position, why is this offer coming today? We have just understood that the Minister did not want to contribute to the costs, Poch did not want to reimburse anything and did not want to make a humanitarian gesture. I cannot therefore escape the impression that, under pressure from this debate, the Minister is suddenly taking this position. I think it's a good position; don't get me wrong. But I just don't understand why it took so long and why we're just hearing this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u50	Mr Markuszower did not listen to my speech very well. I said it was not an offer, but an irrevocable commitment. There is a legally very clear, significant difference between them. Furthermore, I indicated when the first conversation was, in which I was also personally present. I also said that I do not consider myself free to go back and forth from those confidential conversations. I can only say that my thinking process has certainly been influenced in recent months, but not so much by the date of this debate. This debate is today. I therefore think it is right to say that I have arrived here. If this debate had been next week, perhaps I would have said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u51	I do not know what has been discussed, of course, and if the Minister says he wants to keep it confidential, then we can respect that. What I do know is that there was a conversation in April. That's how I understand the Minister. But less than a month later, in May, the state attorney tried, on behalf of the same minister, to bring in that piece of the Machielse committee, with the aim of a blockade to satisfy Poch. So I just don't understand what's happened since the conversation in April. In May there was another legal attack on Poch on behalf of the minister. And now the debate is and then he makes a 180 degree turn, a turn that I think Mr Poch is happy with. I must say, by the way, that I hope that the irrevocable...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u52	Commitment. Difficult word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u53	...that that's a substantial commitment. 'Cause what I just heard wasn't substantial yet. I keep asking: what is it... I understand the thinking process, but that thought process is different from the facts. April: talk. May: legal assault. Then a few months nothing. I think there were reports in the newspaper until yesterday that there would be no satisfaction, nothing. And now suddenly, under pressure from the debate, 180 degrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u54	I'm not gonna repeat what I just said about it. I dispute that there have been no contacts after April, but I will continue to respect what has been agreed not to elaborate on it. Another thing is that Mr Markuszower does not, let me put it this way, point out those documents correctly. As I have already said, the State expressly stated in those proceedings that the committee's report does not, of course, prevent civil proceedings based on tort or similar acts. The question was whether it was still necessary to hear two witnesses again and one witness for the first time. The court has said that the fact that that report is here now doesn't stand in the way. The court then decided, on the basis of other considerations, that there were grounds for rejecting the request on behalf of Mr Poch to hear those witnesses. If we are going to refer to this procedure, we must do it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u55	Sometimes you already know in advance exactly how a debate on the House is going to go. Sometimes surprising things happen. This is one of those nights, I think. I think this is a very important moment. We really need to mark that. The attitude of the State towards Mr Poch so far has been: go to trial, we'll see you in court. But now I hear the Minister say that an irrevocable commitment is being made. He also mentions an amount that I cannot and will not judge as a Member of Parliament. I'm not gonna do that, even if I could. My question to the Minister is actually two-fold. First of all, it is not quite clear to me when exactly he came to this decision and whether it is true that Mr Poch and his counsel are not yet aware of it. I also have a question about this irrevocable commitment. What if Mr. Poch and his counsel said, "I'm sorry, but with this amount I don't even come out of the cost" or disagree with it for any reason, is there still a chance to talk to the minister? Or is the attitude: if you claim to have suffered more damage, then you should still be able to obtain your right from the courts in civil proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u56	As far as the first is concerned, I find it difficult to express precisely the 'when'. That decision has grown, so to speak. I can tell you that, Mr. Chairman. In previous conversations, at least there are some "how am I supposed to put it right"? The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers has been discussed. But I can't say anymore about that, and I don't want to. I have always said that you can find that in my letters, that we first had to wait for the report of the Machielse Committee of Inquiry. The investigation report is clear and has a number of conclusions. That is why I supported Mrs Kuik's comment. For convenience, I paraphrase it now only by saying that it might have given a legitimate position, but as a ruler, as a representative of the government, you can nevertheless conclude that it may not be the right way of acting to leave it at this rightful position. Mr Van Nispen knows it as a lawyer like no other. You then gradually arrive at a certain thought formation and conclusion. I have to tell you, I've been in that thinking process for the past few weeks. It is perhaps a good thing that this debate is here, because we can simply discuss the outcome of my thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u57	Let me try to be happy with that fact and that news and to be happy with this growing, or at least progressive, understanding of the Minister. I'm okay with that. That was exactly what we in the Chamber asked for. Let me say that I am very pleased that the Minister has honestly said that it has grown and has come out today in the debate on the House. I'm still wondering how that's for Mr. Poch and his counsel, but okay. They might have wanted or should have been informed about this. I also have the question as to what this irrevocable commitment means. Because I don't know. I'm not about the amount, and I don't want to. But if Mr Poch is of the opinion that he is not out of the cost or that this does not cover the suffering, then what? Is he still going to have to sue, or is there still a need for a discussion with the Minister and possible? It's not "take it or reject it"; it's an irrevocable offer. So he can sort of look at the amount in his bank account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u59	So he doesn't even have to agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u60	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u61	But if he wants more, I'll just say it flatly. Should he sue, or is there still a chance to talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u62	As far as I am concerned, we certainly have a further discussion on this. That is always very good in the whole. Let me say that the conversations are good in that respect. I have to speculate on that a little bit, but I think I can say that. So you should definitely start that conversation. I would like to emphasise very clearly that, having looked at this, I believe that a compensation is appropriate here which is significantly above the compensation granted here in the Netherlands in the event of unlawful detention. You can conclude that in no uncertain terms. I really want to express something in that. I called it tropic years. I don't think that says too much about how it must have been. In his introduction, Mr Sjoerdsma made a bit of a visual statement. I don't think it's right for me to imagine how bad it must have been. I wouldn't think so, if you know what I mean, Mr. Chairman. But that remuneration is, as far as I am concerned, very much higher than it would be here in the Netherlands. I would like to emphasise the following. Otherwise we'll end up in a discussion. Once I have made this point for the fifth time, I will deposit a copyright fee for Mrs Kuik in the party cash. My dilemma has been that the research report concluded that it had been legitimate and that I have always found that something is eating at me, because someone here has fallen into a terrible situation. I'm telling you that honestly, and there's nothing more to it than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u63	I think it is gratifying that this Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, is looking beyond whether it was legitimate and also doing justice to what is right in this matter. That's hard for a state. The Netherlands is also exceptionally bad at this. I know from my other portfolio, Foreign Affairs, countless examples of how the Netherlands is prepared to have victims or relatives of victims brought before the Supreme Court, and then coldheartedly and coldly announce the compensation via the media and not to do so personally. So let me congratulate the Minister on this decision, regardless of how he came to this decision. I think that is something that the Dutch rule of law may need more than strict compliance with all the rules we know with each other. I have two questions about this. One. Did Mr. Poch and his counsel know you were going to make this offer tonight? I am of course asking this from the point of view of question two: when did the Minister decide this? Because if you look at the report and the ruling of the Rotterdam Court on 8 April, you will see that the State has maintained until the last moment that there is no need for compensation, even after the talks that the Minister has had. It was announced this morning that a soil procedure would be initiated. So I still have those two questions. Did Mr. Poch and his counsel, Mr. Knoops, know about this? That might be so neat. And when was this decided?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u64	I come now to a bit of a difficult point. I'm not gonna say anything about the contacts that have been there in the last few months. What will it be? 7 or 8 months. We have not been helped by the time taken to draw up the committee's report, nor by the whole covidge, but let us forget that. Again, and excuse me if that happens a little cocky, Mr. Chairman: it's not an offer, is it? It's really an irrevocable commitment. With an offer I can say: I'll make you this offer, it goes on for so long and if you don't pick it up, that's too bad. But this is simply an irrevocable commitment. In my opinion, this will take some time. It had already begun before I had my acquaintance on 1 April and at some point in the last few weeks, when it became clear that Mr Poch's lawyer wanted to start a ground procedure, he stepped up. For that I refer to what I said earlier: then you just got into that impasse where, in my opinion, you have to look at the adage I mentioned earlier. That adagium, which I have referred to several times before, is precisely the difference between a procedure and the idea of how you feel at some point you should act humanly or socially technically as a government. There is no denying that the legal position in the proceedings has been maintained for a long time that the State did not accept any form of liability. I don't want to have that discussion here at all. I said: I think we should go further or further along this road; I do not know what the right emphasis is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u65	I do think it is important to continue on this for a little longer. I actually expected that as such a clear offer... I cannot call it "offer," because it in irrevocable, has just been said. If that were to be put on the table, I would have reasonably expected it to have been discussed with the person concerned, regardless of the fine gesture made by this minister, whom I congratulate. I'm just guessing that the person in question, Julio Poch, and his counsel now see and think: gosh, this is news to me. Because on 8 July, the court made another judgment and one of the documents that is underneath is a letter from the national attorney stating that there is no reason for compensation or an interview. That is well after your first and last conversation with Mr Poch, which you are now hiding behind. So I'm asking anyway. The gesture is good, but on that gesture I would have liked to see the people who were the victims to have heard it first. I would've thought that was nice. It raises the question of why this debate should take place as a matter of urgency, regardless of the fine gesture. That leads me to believe that political pressure has been part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u66	Well, those are all misunderstandings in a row, so let's get rid of them right away. There has been contact this afternoon. It has also been said that I would make this statement. That's one. Two. I have said before that this is a process of thought that has been playing with me over the past few months and which I have exchanged with officials, the lawyer and others, because the thought I just formulated kept going through my head. I'm sure it's been a little hasty in the pomegranate. What can I say? Last week or ten days. In addition, I... I have to admit, I hadn't seen it before. I believe that I have heard from Sunday evenings or Fridays at the end of the day that we would have this debate today. With that I knew: well, okay, then I can do it in the debate too, I think... let me put it another way: I have to share it in the debate. I can tell Mr Sjoerdsma that I have not felt any political pressure in this respect. Finally, there's another thing I'd like to give you anyway. There is a slight misunderstanding with Mr Sjoerdsma about how these things work. I say it very carefully: in the 33 years that I have practiced law and, above all, have had a civil trial practice, it was a slap and slap that parties on the surface performed procedures with each other and then, in depth, where they could, still looked at each other to see if they could come to a solution or something like that. That's the very old tile that the average lawyer sworn in for 1990 hangs in his room: who pleads for a cow, he admits one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u67	Still, let's talk about this irrevocable commitment. I have two questions about that. One. Do I understand correctly that it is the compensation someone gets if he has been wrongly in detention in the Netherlands times a factor of two, plus the costs of the lawyers? If that is correct, I ask: from when to when and what costs of the lawyers? The first three years? The first two years? The costs of the Argentine lawyer or also the costs in the Netherlands? The costs up to and including the procedure now under way? So, what cost are we going to pay? Once again, it is important for our group to make a substantial commitment. The minister just referred to his own law practice. It should not be the case that the amount would be lower than the average salary of a junior partner in his old law firm. The second question I have on this is perhaps in line with what Mr Van Nispen has just asked; perhaps a little bit else. Does 'unrecallable commitment' mean that if an amount comes out and Mr Poch still decides to proceed with proceedings, that amount will still be transferred or will it be withheld again? Let me explain what I mean. Mr Grapperhaus says: we normally sue each other and then we try to find a solution on our own. In such a solution there is always, in practice as Mr Grapperhaus has done, final discharge. Is the demand that Mr Poch should not be allowed to proceed with proceedings, also part of the irrevocable commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u68	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u69	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u70	This is a sensible question, because this is what this is about. It is very special that I congratulate Mr Markuszower. That is why I keep saying: an irrevocable commitment. We are not going to say: then it will be final discharge and then you will have to sign with the cross. No. That's the stalemate I was trying to avoid. At some point, you might say to each other that for whatever reason, it doesn't go any further. There could be a lot of things behind that. I think that as a government you then have to show the human power or, I don't know, the greatness to take a big step out of that impasse. So I think it is a good thing that Mr Markuszower's question has been asked. There is no misunderstanding: no, it is a unilateral allocation without obligation from the other side. In theory, in practice, Mr Poch could even say that he would return the money so to speak, because he would be granted it unilaterally. Furthermore, I said a substantial contribution to the legal costs. I realise, of course, what Mr Markuszower is saying, namely that you are talking about what has really been to legal aid here and on the other side of the ocean. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u71	It is indeed quite extraordinary that an irrevocable commitment is being made in the course of a debate, at least with an attempt to break a deadlock that has arisen. I welcome that. At the same time, of course, we don't know yet... There has been a meeting this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u72	No, there hasn't been a meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u73	I hear it's been an app.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u74	No, because Mr Sjoerdsma... Excuse me, but just to avoid misunderstandings: it has just been said that in this debate the Minister would announce that he has decided to make such an irrevocable commitment. Period. There has also been some app traffic going back and forth, but that is not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u75	Well, then we'll probably find out through Jinek tonight how there's been a reaction on that side. It's kind of a weird thing to do. Anyway, in politics, nothing surprises me anymore. How stalemates are broken, I find a little less relevant. We do not yet know how Mr Poch is going to respond to this offer. Since it is irrevocable, I would like it to be ratified with some speed. It's irrevocable, but it could take one, two or three years. Then you actually have the situation of a process that would continue. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u76	Yeah, that's a fair point. I'd like to go back to the next fact. If this debate was planned the week after Princess Day, which is then 30 September or something like that, I think I had already sent your Chamber a letter in which I had worked things out more. Let me just make that very clear. I have just said that I want to have personal contact with Mr Poch's lawyer on this subject again tomorrow. I want that offer committed by Monday, September 20th and sent to your Chamber. Because I really think that should be clear or worn out very quickly. The other point that... No, I think I have already said enough about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u77	Okay, we'll be happy to take note of this commitment. Then we also know what the reaction from the other side will be and what the offer is exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u78	It's not an offer, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u79	No, it's an irrevocable commitment. Thank you for paraphrasingly correcting me. I would also like to say a few words about the Acts. You referred to me five times. I think that is a good thing, because it has broken through an impasse. At the same time, I do not want to say that I agree that there has been legitimate action. That is the conclusion of the report, but I do not know whether I can endorse it. That is not so relevant to the debate right now. With regard to the party cash of the Labour Party, welcome at all times. But for now, we have even more members than the CDA, so that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u80	That could be different with both of our parties every day. But on the other point of Mrs Kuik: I did not want to take her on the fact that she considers the report to be legitimate. I didn't mean it like that. I have studied this very comprehensive report. It has 17,000 pages. In all my college days, I don't think I've made it to look at so many. I have just come to my conclusion on the answers to the questions. Then I find that's why I mentioned that adagium that you can still ask: is this where we think it should end? But, of course, that is another cry from legal practice, Mrs Kuiken has reserved herself all the rights as to how she is opposed to the report. Mr President, do you think it is right that I should reply to a number of questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u81	Yes, unless Mr Ellian's interruption is very urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u82	Whether it's very urgent, I don't know. That's a little to your assessment. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'm trying to keep him short. A lot has been said. Mr Markuszower spoke of a different direction. I think it's good to note that at least I'm seeing it. That's nice. I've been a civil attorney, as you know, so things are going through my head right now. I have just said from the chair that I should not want to interfere too much in what you are going to do. You're gonna try to get out. I do think one thing is important to establish with each other. You hold on to a number of frameworks, but you also have something like the unlawful government act. That is a complicated doctrine in this case, especially when it comes to unlawful detention. What I would like to hear from you, without going through this doctrine, is this. One of the relevant criteria is: has anyone's innocence actually become established? I mention a quote from the Argentine judgment, which is also mentioned in the report of the Machielse Committee: there is no evidence whatsoever that Poch would have participated in a concrete fact. What I would like to hear from the Minister, through you, President, is: do you only look at the legal costs, the amounts for unlawful detention etc., or are you also prepared to consider the whole of the circumstances in an assessment of the unlawful state act and then say 'this is still reasonable'? As a minister, I think you can do the same. I think that is important, because otherwise there will be confusion as to which piece of teaching you will include in your assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u83	I've been pretty brief on that. We're not talking about the illegal act of government here. I think it's okay to have a whole legal treatise about this. But if we start from teachings, we have to go back to zero. That's what I don't want. That still has quite a bit in its own ranks. How can I put it right? The debate was interesting. I am actually simply sticking the standard in our legal system to the unlawful detention that the Argentine government has applied. Then I think I am going to make Mr Ellian very happy when I say: I am, in essence, almost being subrogated in the rights that the person concerned has in the Argentine government. I don't know if we should go that technical, but that's one thing. Two. I'll multiply that amount by two. I'm not gonna ask myself what you normally do in damage calculations. For years I have received that junior partner salary and later that senior partner salary, which Mr Markuszower so cheerfully refers to. Then you're going to figure out exactly what the damage was for someone. The thing is, you're gonna lose that flat-rate starting position. If you also multiply such a flat-rate position by two on a flat-rate basis, there may also be someone who says: Argentina relates to the Netherlands as a factor 1,4; I do not care about that, then that is a good step. You want to help someone up as a government, you want to take the right step. I see that separately from what I have just replied to Mr Markuszower on that substantial legal fee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u84	Briefly, Mr President, because it is not a question of getting back and forth. By the way, there is a one-sided legal act directed towards Mr Poch, but that aside. What matters to me is that the Minister shows willingness. I appreciate the extraordinary step he's taking now. Perhaps the wording "unlawful government act" is a bit unfortunate, because I know you do not recognise liability. I understand. I am concerned with the spirit of the doctrine and the spirit of Article 89 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which also includes material damage. What I would like to hear from you is that you take the spirit of these teachings with you in the continuing discussion you have just mentioned in the reply to Mr Van Nispen. Otherwise, it would appear that it is a unilateral act and then it is yes or no. I would regret it if that were the outcome now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u85	No, it must be quite clear that this is a factual act. I would be happy to discuss this for another twenty minutes, but I can imagine that the other Members of the House will be looking for the cafeteria...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u86	The chairman, too, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u87	Okay, then we're gonna draw lots of tickets to who's gonna take over your role. I would like to stress once again to Mr Ellian that I... If you ask me what the spirit is, I say that it may have something to do with how I stand in life. It does not have to do with any principle in the civil parts of the Asser series, which Mr Ellian and I both had to consult in our grief. It just has to do with the adage I won't touch anymore, otherwise the PvdA will walk in tonight. I think I should think about this from my own moral point of view and come to a conclusion. That's how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u88	I do want to get away from the legal and the moral. I understand that there must be a sum. What I do not understand is that there is a quasi-legal basis to that amount. Then I'm referring to that compensation given for detention. What's that like in the Netherlands? You're gonna get convicted by a judge, you're gonna be in jail, later that conviction turns out to be wrong, and then you're gonna get compensation. The problem here is that no Dutch judge has ever been involved. We are now skipping that whole part of the debate because the Minister has taken the leap forward and has come up with a compensation, with an irrevocable commitment. But what still strikes me at the heart of the matter is that there is a legal basis for these costs, when the problem is not a legal problem but a political one. The minister's predecessor has driven Poch to an Argentine cell with a political act. That was political, and so there must be a political gesture. That may be a gesture based on the minister's morality. That is fine in itself, but the main argument is wrong, because now it really seems as if a judge has come into play, and that was precisely the problem here. I'd like the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u89	That's a little misunderstanding, because a judge has come to terms with it. Yeah, there's a judge involved. In the end, it is also a good thing that this judge has been involved, because he has acquitted Mr Poch. So let me make one thing clear. I said I see it this way. I did just have that in-depth legal debate with Mr Ellian. As a representative of the Dutch State, I say about the obligation which should have been imposed by Dutch standards on the Argentine government: I am not going to do it to anyone to have to carry out that procedure, apart from the rules in Argentina on that point; I am going to take that up. I'm not going to repeat what I said about how I got there. But whether a distant predecessor of mine in 2008 again, I am politically responsible for it; let it be clear that there are reasons for this other than legal ones: the committee has an opinion on that. That is different from what Mr Markuszower has just said, especially with adjectives that unfortunately show a little bit in the further tone of the debate. Let us be clear: the committee says precisely that they consider it to be legitimate. You can either agree with that or you can't. Then I say that may be so, but I think that something must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u90	I'd like to ask the Minister a very different question. Imagine a similar case coming up today. Not a distant predecessor, but this minister is the minister. It's the exact same situation. What would this minister do? Would he do the same as his distant predecessor, by the way, from the same political family? Or will he act differently? That is important, because we can continue to compensate or make irrevocable commitments for the future, but what we in the Chamber have to do here is assess whether we can all learn from our mistakes. So I ask the Minister: what would he do if he were to present himself with exactly the same situation today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u91	However, Mr Markuszower is already ignoring the premise that the Machielse Committee has concluded that there has been a legitimate act. Again, you cannot agree with that, but that is what the committee notes. That's an independent committee I set up. As Members of Parliament, you may of course be very critical of this, but I am not going to say as Minister of a committee that I have set up, which is independent and which has conclusions: yes, but those conclusions... No, of course not, because then I will completely trample on what is precisely the principle, namely outsourcing the research. I shall come back to a question later, I believe from Mr Van Nispen, how I would react now in similar cases. I would just like to make it very clear that Professor Ernst Hirsch Ballin has been Minister of Justice of the Netherlands twice for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u92	A tragedy!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u93	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u94	So that was a tragedy for the Netherlands and for Mr Poch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u95	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u96	That's the kind of talk that seems to be part of it, but I'm not part of it. Mr Ernst Hirsch Ballin has been Minister of Justice twice. I looked it up, maybe because I thought myself: how long can I actually stay in this position before... He's been that combined longer than anyone. Come to see me in the hallway and look at the photos of pastors and followers. He is a minister who has been there for a very long time and who has contributed a great deal to our rule of law. I would find it extremely presumptuous of myself to say here, what is it, fourteen years after that, how I would have done it all better myself at that time. You know Kierkegaard: life must be lived forward, but experienced backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u97	That's right. Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u98	Well, that's learned well. I didn't know that statement, but in the spirit of that Kierkegaard, I also asked about the future. Leave that Machielse commission for what she is. I've said what I think about that. Leave your predecessor for what he was. I told him what I think. I ask this Minister what he would do today if the Argentines happened to be asking for legal aid again today or if they wanted someone extradited in exactly the same situation. What would this minister do with the experience this minister has? I'm not talking about Machielse, and I'm not talking about the predecessor. I'm just talking about this minister. I would like to know from this Minister what this Minister would do in exactly the same situation today. Not yesterday, but today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u99	This minister would review the rules as they currently apply in the light of the criteria currently in force. Moreover, it must be a matter that is outside the EU, because if a matter is within the EU, then, as you know, this minister does not even have a role. This minister also said himself in a much more recent case, which was somewhat different but in which an issue played with a Dutchman who was stuck in Thailand: I have to take care of that and I have to do something with it. I do not need a chapel for that from Mr Markuszower, but I would like to point out that at every time in the Netherlands we have a tradition of Justice Ministers who can be proven to follow the rules and rules in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u100	Clear. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u101	Unfortunately, the House of Representatives does not issue chapels, but I do have a question. I am a little hesitant about how to ask the question, because when it comes to recognition or guilt, it all becomes legal, and I am not very keen on it. But I'd like to know the Minister's next. He has come to this gesture, to this irrevocable promise. That suggests that there are lessons underneath. It's not about extradition, covert extradition, or whatever you want to call it. Take a look at what happened to Mr Poch and at the attitude of the State from the moment it came up until now. Are there any lessons that we can draw and that could help us in future matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u102	I think for myself as a minister, but I have always heard from your Chamber that the person and the minister coincide 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u103	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u104	Thank you. I am taking one lesson from this case, namely that as a government you must constantly reflect on what is actually the outcome. As a government, you must always ask yourself whether and what to do with it. As a young lawyer, I would like to confess that to Mr Sjoerdsma. I was introduced by an old-timer in the profession, who told us: a good lawyer always keeps a certain degree of uncertainty about his case; then he always keeps checking whether he's doing what's right, which gives the right result. Then you can say that I had already learned that lesson as a young lawyer, but that's what I see in this case. You have to keep watching forever: maybe it's legitimate and maybe it's right, but what's coming out of this and what am I supposed to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u105	Let's say that in big letters, we have already received here today a banner on our front wall from Greenpeace on the ministerial wing of the Ministry of Justice and Security: do we do what is right and right? That question seems to me to be leading and a very nice lesson from the past period-Poch. This is something that concerns not only this minister, but also previous and perhaps future ministers. I also have a number of technical things, but I think I will put them at a later stage in the debate. But I see "do we do what is right and right?" I'd like to return to your ministry in very large letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u106	That could be much shorter. Perhaps something could be done about that. It's basically the suum cuique tribuere. It is each of them who is sent to him. That's not always what I'm looking at Mr. Ellian for for some support, all the way from Justitian's Digest, but that's just how you sometimes have to get along with society and the individual. Mr President, shall I go to the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u107	Mr Van Nispen briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u108	I'm gonna ask you a question I've asked before. It may be that I did not understand the answer correctly and that it was up to me; then excuse it. However, that irrevocable commitment is simply an unconditional offer. That's gonna be dumped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u109	It's an unconditional commitment, so it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u110	I said "offer" by mistake, but it's gonna happen. Should it be substantiated, it is an uncomfortable question, but I am simply asking it here, because I want to understand what is happening here, because it is also surprising to us that there has been more damage than the amount of money that the Minister has just mentioned to us as a Chamber, what happens then? So there is still room for discussion with the Minister, if this can be supported in one way or another. Or does the Minister say: no, this is it, this is what I have deposited, this is the unconditional commitment; if you think you are entitled to more, on the basis of any doctrine, then you are going to sue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u111	No. Look, I said in an earlier answer to this question: of course we have another discussion about this. I believe that this is also part of the good relations and the like. I cannot guarantee here that the outcome will lead to final satisfaction. I'm not about that, and it would be very presumptuous if I did. But I've always said, in my introduction and then in response to some questions, that if you get into an impasse with each other in conversations... I am trying to say it all as neutral as possible, because I do not want to say anything else about it. I think that as a government you should at least say: listen, we are just taking a very clear step. That must be real, unconditional and irrevocable, so that the individual simply knows: okay, I have certainty about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u112	That may sound very logical, but I would think myself: if I am in an impasse with someone, then I will talk to the person to get out of it to all satisfaction. Again, I really appreciate the Minister's moving insight and I'm really happy with this breakthrough in the impasse, but I'd still think you're trying to get out of it together, to everyone's satisfaction. This sounds a bit like the Minister says: this is it, and not anymore. I wonder why it has to be this way. Why can't that happen in conversations, listening to the arguments, the arguments and so on? I'd think that would make more sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u113	I have already put a lot of considerations to that effect. I have just referred to the fact that there have been conversations and that at some point you will find that it does not go any further. An announcement was then made that a ground procedure was to be started. I indicated earlier that we never closed that door, but that there is apparently an impasse. I have decided, working towards an end in the thought formation I have had for some time, to at least make this unconditional commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u114	Yeah, clear. I understand that the Minister is going to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u115	Yeah, I'm gonna go ask the questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u116	If you can do it short and pointy, we can manoeuvre a little towards the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u117	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. There was a request from Mr Van Nispen and Mr Sjoerdsma about the granting of legal aid. There may be... in the special case... I am looking at Mr Van Nispen and Mr Sjoerdsma. I'll focus on the request for legal assistance on the flight records. I can promise that, but that can only be made confidential for inspection, because these are documents that we cannot simply consult with foreign authorities on the basis of the questions and other agreements that exist with foreign authorities. However, this request can be made for inspection in the short term, after a number of personal data have been removed, as Mr Van Nispen will understand. The police report has been requested. The police documents will also be provided by the police, according to the same regime as the other documents. I would just like to stress that all these personal data must be removed. That's why it takes so long. This must therefore also be aligned where necessary with other organisations and with foreign authorities in some areas. The police documents will be provided by the department together with the other documents by 1 December 2021 at the latest. Mr. Chairman. I think it's good to pay some attention to the point of the Royal House. The question asked by a number of Members of Parliament was: should we not investigate it further? The Committee has investigated an incident that may have pointed to a role of the Royal House, but has not been able to obtain confirmation of it. That incident, I would point out, was a report that there would have been an intervention attempt from circles around the Royal House, of someone moving there. That intervention would have been directed at Eurojust and would have remained without consequences. The committee has, however, submitted this to the King's Cabinet, which I would like to emphasise. The director of the King's Cabinet has checked this at the request of the Committee and has made enquiries. That didn't work out. Then nothing was found in databases, conversation notes and calendars from the period 2001 to 2011. In addition, the director of the King's Cabinet spoke to the people who, if such a call had been made, might be involved. These are the people who worked at the Royal House Service at the time, but also the King, the Queen and Princess Beatrix. All have indicated that they do not support any of that. Then I see no reason to investigate that further. What could, of course, be done is that we could debate the entire archive with any documents that might be referred to here if they were shared with your Chamber and your Chamber would see reason for that in those documents. But on the basis of the findings of the committee, there is really no reason to go into this matter further now. So I would like to stress once again that there is one person who, as the report says, and the Members of Parliament know, says to remember, 'Is that good Dutch?' I think that would have happened. There's nothing else to find. Mr. Chairman. I have already answered many questions from Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Palland about these talks and the like. I didn't want to tire your room with that. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ellian, I do understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u118	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u119	I would like to extend the Minister's summary to the words of the Machielse Committee: 'The Committee must pay attention to this intervention effort in the light of the interviewee's position. It is also true that this attempt took place at a time when the CIE investigation into Poch was only known to a small number of persons within the Public Prosecutor's Office." The Minister says he sees no reason to investigate this further because the Director of the King's Cabinet has already asked questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u120	Well, not just for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u121	I'd be there myself, to be perfectly honest... Nothing to the king's office director's detriment, but the Chamber asked for an independent verification, first through the police. That has been said: a statute of limitations, therefore pointless. I can come up with that. There's nothing you can do about it. But I ask for an independent assessment of what has happened there, not by the director of the King's Cabinet, although I very much appreciate that he has also spoken to the king, the Queen and Princess Beatrix, but by someone who does not work there, by someone who can look at it independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u122	But back up: there has been an independent assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u123	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u124	Shall I finish the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u125	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u126	There has been an independent assessment, by Machielse and Myjer. Those are two very seasoned former judges, who are really able to question people properly. They noted at some point: "We find, apart from this one notification, which is also not very clearly specified in terms of terms and the like..." They say, "There is nothing but that." They checked it out. They've questioned the director about this and they've asked him to do it, and they've concluded that this is really not enough. Then you should also be able to say: that was independently viewed by these two experienced people. But I do agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. Suppose there was a letter to the committee's report in which the committee said: "There was a report and then we asked the director of the King's Cabinet to say something about it. He has sent us a letter saying that none of this is known." Then I would understand Mr Sjoerdsma if he said that this was not looked at independently. But here are the two... I've all described and said what they've done. I think that's really enough. We should also be able to say at some point: there was no more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u127	No, I think we need to be more precise here. In this way, the appearance remains that the Royal House not only knew about this investigation early, but also tried to find something about it early and to share it. That appearance is not good for the Royal House and not for our rule of law. The Minister of Justice and Security is the guardian of our rule of law. He says here, and I strongly disagree with him that the committee has investigated this. Of course, that is not the case. The committee spoke to Mr Manschot and the committee then asked the director of the King's Cabinet to make enquiries. That wasn't the committee itself. Right, Minister? That wasn't the committee itself. He didn't have those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u128	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u129	He didn't see the records. They didn't join the committee. Minister, isn't that right? So I would like to ask the Minister why, given the appearance that has arisen, this Minister does not think it necessary to investigate this matter in a genuinely independent manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u130	Because I asked two independent researchers in 2019: do you want to investigate this, in all aspects? They are themselves... Let's get this straight. There was no indication at all that Mr. Manschot had received a phone call or anything. They have come across this themselves, and they have said: the gentleman said it; we have looked into it more closely, and we have not been able to find any further clues. The Director of the King's Cabinet would speak falsely about the fact that nothing was found in databases, conversation notes and calendars from the period 2001-2011. Whether that's likely is the test I'm taking with Machielse and Myjer. If they are apparently convinced that... I understand it quite frankly, but if two experienced seasoned judges, who have interviewed enough people and have done enough research, conclude that it has all been true, then there has been an independent investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u131	No, here too, it requires more clarity and precision from the Minister. That is not what the committee concluded. The Committee concluded that it was unable to obtain confirmation of the incident reported by Manschot. I would just like to ask the Minister whether it is true that no member of the committee was able to speak with members of either the Cabinet of the Queen at the time, or the Royal House. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u132	No, I can't tell if they haven't been able to speak to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u133	Or they've talked to, uh, no word games.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u134	Maybe it's okay if we let each other finish each time. No, I can't say. This came to them on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u135	No, I'm asking...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u136	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u137	Yeah, but I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u138	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u139	The Minister replied to a question he was happy to answer and not to the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u140	No, the Minister is speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u141	They may have had those conversations themselves, but they had the conversation with the director of the King's Cabinet. That's a decision of theirs. That's a decision of two experienced judges. Anyone who has trial experience as a lawyer knows that it is at some point up to the judge to see how he is going to assess the arguments that are being put forward. They have done so independently, and I say that I am not going to appreciate that. So I am not going to say, as Mr Sjoerdsma does, but you should have pushed that man aside and you should have walked in on people yourself. No, they have said: this has just been tested by us. If it says "there's no confirmation of it," then it's only neat that they say: one person said he meant to remember such a thing. They say we haven't been able to find anything else. Then it just stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u142	I understand the Minister's annoyed, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u143	No, I'm not annoyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u144	I think that's because he wants to answer questions I'm not asking. My question to the Minister was whether the members of the committee spoke with the staff of the Cabinet of the Queen at the time and members of the Royal House? That's my question. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u145	You may read it back in the Acts. Mr Sjoerdsma asked: "Do they speak?" I heard it very clearly. Of this, I say: that could be very good, but they have chosen to simply ask questions to the director of the King's Cabinet and to speak to him. That is their choice as independent researchers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u146	My question, once again, I will continue to ask him until I receive an answer: did these researchers speak with staff of the Cabinet of the Queen of the Royal House at the time and people of the Royal House? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u147	This is a different question than was asked first, namely: did they speak to it? I've already said something once, so I don't understand why the question is still coming, that she's... We are not annoyed, by the way, but I do like a sharp debate. You can read it, as I said in my reply: they have spoken with the director of the Cabinet of the King, put a number of questions to him and given a number of orders. He checked that out for them, and that's where this came out. It is up to those independent researchers to conclude at some point: we believe that it is very clear, credible and that we are not going to do any further research on this either. The fact that it is legally-technically 'we have not been able to find confirmation' is only neat, because they say that one person has made a separate communication, has put forward a statement, which is endorsed by nothing in the documents and by no other person concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u148	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u149	Yes, concluding, Mr President, because we see that the Minister very much likes to cast a fog curtain on this point and not to give an answer. So they didn't talk to the employees, they weren't allowed to see the documents themselves, they weren't allowed to look at the databases themselves. In other words, they went off, in this case, to an employee of the Royal House. There's nothing else the employee can do about that. So nothing to the detriment of that employee, but that is, I shall say, to this minister, where my group feels that this appearance has not been sufficiently removed, both towards the Royal House and towards the rule of law, and why my group will be calling for an additional independent investigation into precisely this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u150	Maybe so. I have the answer I have just read out. So it can be read back in the Acts. Then I reject that remark that I have missed trying to create. I have made it very clear that the attempt to intervene, that is to say, Mr Manschot's statement, has been submitted to the King's Office, the Director of the King's Office and so on. So before Mr Sjoerdsma repeated that question, I made it clear that it was the director of the King's Cabinet. So that's not misting. That's why I keep throwing off that thought that it wouldn't be transparent from me and that sort of thing. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u151	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u152	This concerns potential interference by the Royal House in a very sensitive dossier, in which there is a personal connection between one of the members of the Royal House and Mr Poch. Information may have been provided at a time when we had no legal knowledge of the course of this case, and there is a personal connection. Given these two sensitivities, or rather three sensitivities, the familiar involvement, the independence of the rule of law and the fact that this concerns the responsibility and responsibility of the cabinet for the Royal House, would an independent investigation not have been appropriate, rather than relying on the words of a director?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u153	There's been an independent investigation. What your Chamber apparently does not want to do is to have these two independent researchers look into this point and actually conclude that they did not find any confirmation of Mr Manschot's assertion or statement, I don't know what to call it...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have just mentioned another point in my introductory text, by the way, that if there had been any intervention, it would in any case have been completely pointless. If we are going to jump to conclusions, we must keep an eye on that. But most importantly...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u154	Well, the last thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u155	Hoho, the Minister is speaking!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u156	Well, he's distracting again...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u157	Oh, he was ready. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u158	...of a question I didn't ask and which I don't think is relevant at all. I don't think it's relevant at all whether or not it's affected. The potential influence or the attempt to do so is in itself serious enough. The Minister, too, is constantly giving us information, but we are also relying not only on his account, but on the fact that we want the documents to be made public so that we can judge them ourselves. I therefore sincerely do not understand why the Machielse Committee merely relies on the words of a director without further investigation. Why does the Minister agree to this, when such a fog is being created, which we all want taken away?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u159	I have said before: if all those documents have been screened for personal data and they have been removed, and if they have been sent to your Chamber, then your Chamber can decide for itself what is left of them. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I'm not secretive about that. That can be seen without a shadow of a doubt. What I'm saying is this. Two independent researchers have taken a single communication from one person seriously. They have said: okay, we will not find any further clues for that, but we will look into that. And as independent researchers, they concluded that there was no further indication or confirmation of it. That was the discussion. Then I'll say, "Then they've just looked into it." It's up to them to decide how they did it. If your Chamber is going to say 'we think there should be another independent investigation', then I say: then you are going to do what Myjer and Machielse have done again on this part. That does not seem to me to be the case. I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u160	I understand that the Minister does not think that this is necessary and that Mr Machielse's conclusions on this point, as well as the legality, come out well. But I really do have another assessment of an independent investigation. I conclude that we have a different view on this, and in that respect I can only support Mr Sjoerdsma's plea and other colleagues that a genuinely independent investigation is needed again, which goes beyond mere questioning and interrogating a director, however integrity it may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u161	Fine. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u162	I think I'm leaning towards that, too, because I think there's more. There is also, for example, that travel report which we have already addressed in this debate and which we still do not have to my great discontent. I would like to quote a few words about this, which has already been published by Argos, among others, about what this liaison and those police officers have for findings on their mission to Argentina. "One of the talks was with the ambassador," reports police liaison. "The ambassador indicated that he recognizes the sensitivity"...... from the investigation into Poch.................................................................................................................................................... That is, good is good, wrong is wrong." So it's not just that phone call, there's more clues. And that is precisely why I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma and I think: why should we not turn this back inside out? Why does the Minister insist that this has been done adequately? And how is it that up to this day we have this piece of paper that we are not asking for for the first time this evening and from which the Minister says he still does not want to offer it confidentially?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u163	No, that police report is with the police. I was just talking about the legal aid application. This is another piece, which I say the police will also provide these documents according to the same regime. This means that all personal data are removed and that, where necessary, it is necessary to coordinate with foreign powers or to consult certain documents. Anyway, it's actually very common for it to happen that way. For this, too, the documents are all coming to your Chamber. My department got that archive at the end of June. The police documents returned the commission to the police according to an agreement with the police. That in itself should be the case, for the sake of detection and other things. Anyway, they'll all come to your room before 1 December. So you'll get those pieces. There's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u164	But we should have had those pieces by now. Maybe we would have had less discussion here about this kind of thing. 'Cause it was about that weird phone call, among other things. But it is also about this representation of the facts of the conversation with the police liaison and the ambassador, who is also talking about the fact that the royal house is quite easy to stick in. So it is about the role of the Royal House. We could have avoided this discussion if the Minister had just sent the documents to the Chamber earlier, respecting Article 68 of the Constitution. So now I still don't understand why the Minister... Well, he didn't. But we ask for this, because there is more, so there is involvement of the Royal House. And then the Minister insists that it has been adequately investigated, which is simply not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u165	Mr President, here's the thing. It is not right that I should not respect Rule 68. I have already told you this spring in Parliamentary letters that we are after that archive, because we want that archive. As soon as that archive has more than 17,000 pages and I don't even talk about the huge amount of police work, it is screened for personal data and the like. It's very common. They have to be removed and then it goes to your room. That's a huge job. I've explained that in two or three letters, I think. I can't speed that up. I would add that we are really doing it with the greatest possible speed. What is said here, and what I simply do not accept, is that I would take a walk with Article 68 of the Constitution. That suggests Mr Van Nispen. That's not true. You will have those pieces, and as far as I am concerned, we will do everything we can to ensure that they are there before 1 December. That's what I wrote yesterday. But it's just a huge job. I cannot afford it, certainly not as Minister of Justice and Security, and when I tap Mr Sjoerdsma's sign on my building, to have personal data in those documents and to persons traceable data, where this is not permitted under other regulations. Mr Van Nispen knows that. Then I'm just gonna get to the point of the investigation. I keep repeating myself. An independent committee of inquiry has been set up by me. It comes with conclusions and findings. One of these findings is that it was said that there was one report that someone from the court would have made a phone call. We haven't found any confirmation of that. There wasn't a single clue. Then I say at some point, that's it. Then we should not be setting up another whole committee to find out more, because that committee was already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u166	I do not share that last conclusion. But I'm going back to the facts. The Minister is forcing me to do this. The facts are that there was a lot of noise in Julio Poch's case. We asked questions. We requested documents. We didn't get anything. Journalists revealed things. That has nothing to do with Article 68 of the Constitution, because we did not get the documents from the Minister. Then the Minister says: I am setting up a committee and until that committee is at work, you will still have nothing as a Chamber, because now that committee is at work. In my view, setting up a committee cannot put aside Article 68 of the Constitution. Then we asked for documents. Then it's again: "Yes, now it's a multitude of pieces and we all need to screen them. And Mr. Van Nispen, you don't want me to do this with personal data and take a walk with the law and you name it?" And then the Minister here says indignantly and in a high tone that he does not accept that I say that he does not comply closely with Article 68 of the Constitution. Well, I do. That's what I'm gonna keep standing here. The Minister may be very sorry that I do, but I think it's just the way it is. The Minister should have given the documents to the Chamber much earlier. That could have prevented a lot of fuss, and it would have been legal and constitutionally correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u167	Then I should've had those pieces. I also have the following to say to the Chamber: 'You can read it back, and as far as I can remember, there was no rejection of it at that time.' That committee was set up by me to bring together all the pieces where possible. That's what I said in my introduction. The criticism from the Chamber, as I have just said, was that there was a bite here, and then there was another bite there. They came along the most unexpected road in public. But I have set up this committee to let me just say it in plain English to Mr Van Nispen to shake his hand at all these agencies. Well, that worked out. If I then afterwards get blamed 'you never submitted those documents', I say: no, because that committee has been working on this for two years. They've taken it from everywhere. But I would like to stress once again to Mr Van Nispen that all the documents go to your Chamber. I'm working on that. That's really the point. The only thing we're doing now with man and power and with additional hired forces is pulling those pieces through the mill, so there's no data in there that I can't share with your Chamber because it's confidential personal data. As I said earlier, I also said: bring in an external party to speed it up. I will finish: all the pieces really come to your Chamber, and as far as I am concerned, before 1 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u168	Good. I would like to go to the end of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u169	Pooh, let's see what I haven't answered, Mr. Chairman. I say to Mr Van Nispen: that report from the liaison officer of January 2008 will be presented as soon as possible, as far as I am concerned, rather than in the ordinary machinery. But I understand that this is really a piece with a lot more information that also relates to other matters. All personal data is removed and then there is coordination with all other interested parties: source protection. But I'm assuming this piece will really be at your room in two weeks. And the document requested by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Sjoerdsma himself, the request for legal aid on flight data, will be there by the end of this week. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go through it real quick. There was the question of Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Nispen as to whether the Netherlands has now initiated a disguised extradition. The committee says there was no such thing. I have already explained that this is an independent committee and that I am really focusing on what the committee has said about it. Mrs Palland asked about the role in relation to extradition and international legal aid. The Minister, who I am, has an important role in the receipt, assessment and transmission of these extradition requests on the basis of the Extradition Act. The role of central authority is filled by the Department of International Affairs and Legal Aid in Criminal Matters (AIRS) of my Ministry. It also fulfils the role of central authority for the receipt, assessment and transmission of judicial requests for legal assistance on the basis of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Van Nispen's question as to whether we should do this again next time. No case is the same. The committee finally drew its conclusions. I refer to that and I am not going to say anything about it. As Minister, I have that role that I have just explained through you, Mrs Palland, as the central authority for that receipt, assessment and transmission on the basis of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I recently, well, fairly recently, on 17 December 2019, sent a Protocol Cooperation in International Legal Aid to your Chamber. That protocol does not change the way international legal assistance works, but does provide practical guidance on investigative practice, so that each case can be properly assessed in accordance with the rules in force. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered all the questions. Let's see. Maybe it's not, but I thought so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u170	A brief question from Mr Ellian, whom I would also like to ask to speak through the President. Sorry, we can't hear you. You really need to push the pedal harder; that's a problem, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u171	Yeah, it takes some getting used to. Okay, it must be the shoes. Mr President, through you, of course. I asked another question to which I did not receive an answer. The committee is judging legality, but that was not the question of investigation at all. I didn't quote the research questions for nothing in my first term. I would therefore like an answer to that. I had also asked a question about the fact that the Committee is commenting on an Argentine judgment. I would add that the committee defended itself in a public scientific journal. There's a certain appearance to that. I would like to hear from the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u172	I have, of course, worked for a very long time in practice as well as in science. I must say that commenting on a pronunciation or writing a note below on the basis of the pronunciation itself, without knowledge of the file, is quite common; let me put it this way. For we must realise that the considerations, findings and final decisions of the judge are our case law. I do not have a strong position on this, to be honest. Furthermore, this committee has delivered this independent report. This has been criticised in substance by other legal scholars. I believe that such a committee and its members are completely free, as I also believe that officials are free, as I explained recently in your Chamber following criticism by an official of mine who had written a dissertation, and then going into a discourse about it. I am just saying that everyone can then draw their own conclusions or have their own opinion on them. I might be very liberal in that, I'd almost think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u173	There is nothing wrong with liberalism being increased. But I'm gonna go back anyway. I was a junior lecturer at the university and my teacher taught me very quickly, in my first draft article, a Von Munchhausen reasoning: you make up all kinds of arguments or you look for all kinds of wanted, bad arguments because you want to reason towards a goal. That is also referred to as a purpose statement. I do not wish to accuse the committee of this, but can you understand that I am pleased that at the end of your reply you said that anyone is free to make a judgment on the report........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The status I can give it is... Scientific? You say: annotation of a verdict. Well, that's an opinion for me. I hope the Minister understands that the report will not necessarily be accepted as true for me or that I will not necessarily endorse the conclusion. Of course, the Minister himself does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u174	This is a report by at least two independent researchers. I can assure you that I had never met Mr Machielse in my life until a week and a half ago, when I shook my hand at someone's farewell. I also met Mr Myjer only professionally once or twice at something scientific. So I've taken full account of their reputation and their scientific, but also judicial research resume. That's the combination you're looking for. I think we've asked people with very great qualities to do this research. At least there are more than 17,000 pages in pieces, plus thousands of pages in the police archive. I don't know how much that is. Let's just say for the record that there are 5,000. So more than 20,000 pages have been viewed. There's been a lot of conversations, and there's been a lot of clues and stuff. They have mainly drawn facts and conclusions. As a minister, I can only say that it is a very solid report, with valuable conclusions. Anyone is then free to comment on this in the discourse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u175	To make that comment briefly: both, so Machielse and Myjer, are not experts in the field we are talking about here. Perhaps even more important: Myjer is a member of another committee, together with Mr Hirsch Ballin and chaired by Jaap de Hoop Creator, also CDA. Maybe the minister didn't know this before he appointed these two people. But now that he knows this, because I am now saying it here and because it is virtually known and has been published everywhere in the meantime, I ask the Minister whether he is happy afterwards that 50% of the committee consists of someone who has been on a different committee for years with the subject, with the one who needs to be examined. The side question is whether the Minister can reflect on the fact that almost all experts in international criminal law, in this case, have a lot of criticism of the findings of Machielse and Myjer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u176	As far as the latter is concerned, I have always said that this is not a discourse in which I go. If I set up an independent committee as a minister, I have to accept the findings and results of that committee. What you do with it as a Chamber is completely different, but if I did otherwise, you wouldn't take me as a Chamber seriously anymore. That's one. The second concerns Mr Markuszower's first point. Yeah, that's a misunderstanding. I think it is a mistake to think that this would immediately have a conflicting interest or that you would not be able to judge one or the other. Now Machielse, who is completely out there, has also spoken out about it. He said he tested it and he didn't see any objection to it. Mr Markuszower may think otherwise, but that is not in the fact that people may sometimes have an interface somewhere. It is purely a question of whether there is a possible appearance of a common or conflicting interest. That has been assessed and it has been said by Machielse that he does not consider that at all present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u177	Still a little while. I'm sorry. Maybe I'm a little whiny, but of course it's not about what Machielse thinks. The Minister has made the choice to appoint these two people. I think it is important to change that, because the Minister makes more choices. Recently, Minister Joustra has been appointed to another committee. That's what he came back from. So the question is: can the Minister learn from these kinds of sensitivities when appointing and setting up committees? So it is not a question of whether Machielse sees the appearance of conflict of interest. The question is whether the Minister recognizes that. Because I can see it myself. You've got a commission of two interrogating 13 people. One of them is Hirsch Ballin, who plays a leading role in this file. Then it turns out that these two, Myjer and Hirsch Ballin, 50% of the committee, are very familiar with each other and act together in another committee chaired by another CDA. I do not need to remind the Minister of his own political home. Has it been a happy choice, in the opinion of the Minister, not according to Machielse's? Maybe the minister says, "Well, now that you put it like that, Markuszower, that wasn't a lucky choice." That's possible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u178	It has been a speech to me from Mr Machielse. That is why I say that I do not have anything to add; he has tested it well. I simply do not see where Mr Markuszower... There are all things being said about Mr Hirsch Ballin being a member of the CDA. Yes, so there are more people in the CDA; still. I do not see anything in that regard, because it is a question of whether there is a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u179	Was that the second term? Restore, first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u180	Yeah, I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u181	Oh, then I wasn't paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u182	Then we can move on to the second term of the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u183	Oh, okay. That order has never been quite clear to me. I wonder if there is a need for a second term. I call Mr Markuszower. I'm sure he can make it in a minute. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u184	Very soon, Mr. Chairman. I, too, was surprised by the irrevocable commitment of the Minister who suddenly came. On behalf of my group, I want to ensure that it is a substantial contribution. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister Julio Poch to make substantial compensation for the suffering and damage suffered to him,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u186	Okay. Then Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u187	Mr. Chairman. In this debate, I was concerned with two things: truth and justice. To begin with, I think that justice has come closer this evening. I find that surprising. The growing insight to get out of the impasse has grown with the Minister. I think that would require a debate in the Chamber. However, it is rather strange that Mr Poch and his lawyer are now hearing this through the debate in the Chamber. It is, as I have said, a good thing that an irrevocable, unconditional commitment has been made. That is a step in the right direction. What keeps keeping me busy is why they didn't try to get out of it together. There is another motion for a resolution on this matter. Then the second point: the truth finding. I think it is clear that I am very dissatisfied with the way in which the information provided to the Chamber has turned out in this case. Why have all these parliamentary questions, motions and debates been necessary and do we still not have the documents to date? It's not even a question, because I know what the minister's gonna say. But that's the discontent I have. I do not think that the way the Minister has done that is the correct application of Article 68 of the Constitution. I want the most important documents I have mentioned to be given priority. These are the request for legal aid and the travel report of the first mission, but also the 2009 Ferdinandusse memo on which Minister Hirsch Ballin had to decide at the time. It's called "Working on Arrest Abroad." I hope the Minister will be able to promise that this document will also be sent to the Chamber as a matter of priority. I am not convinced in advance that this should be a confidential inspection, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u188	Thank you. Then Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u189	Mr. Chairman. By taking a step towards justice, by doing justice to Julio Poch and his suffering, perhaps the suffering has not been removed. But with that, his dignity has been restored. I think that's the most important start we have to mark today. I have a motion to prevent similar cases. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands and Argentina have an extradition treaty stating that Dutch citizens may not be extradited to Argentina;]] [[whereas Julio Poch has been chosen for a disguised extradition by means of legal aid, missing both the protective effect of his Dutch citizenship and having not been given a chance to present his case to an independent Dutch extradition judge;]] [[calls on the Government to stop using requests for legal aid to extradite Dutch suspects to countries with which it has been agreed that extradition of Dutch citizens is not permitted;]] [[calls on the government, instead, to ensure that Dutch suspects have the opportunity to defend themselves for an independent extradition judge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u190	Mr. Chairman. Then the Royal House. For the sake of time, I will keep it brief and submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Machielse Committee speaks of "a certain sensitivity" in relation to the Royal House and the Poch case;]] [[whereas the Machielse Commission confirms that an intervention has taken place from circles surrounding the Royal House;]] [[noting that the Machielse Committee was unable to rule out the fact that the Royal House tried to influence the Poch criminal case or gave instructions to that effect;]] [[whereas it is undesirable and harmful to the reputation of both the Dutch rule of law and the Royal House and the impression of alleged influence of the Royal House in the criminal case-Poch continues to exist;]] [[Calls on the Government to initiate an independent investigation into the alleged influence of the Royal House in the Poch criminal case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u193	Then Mr. Ellian of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is nice to see in this debate that the Minister, Mr Markuszower, continues to refer to the words of Mr Markuszower, 'has chosen a different direction'. That's nice. We need to see what the outcome of that is. I myself have noticed that I do not yet understand very well what the actual act is. In my opinion, transferring money is still a legal act, but I am going to talk to the Minister about that one more time. However, I shall table the next motion, welcoming the fact that the Minister has taken a major step forward. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that after the sharing of flight data to Spain and Argentina Mr Poch had been transferred to Argentina;]] [[noting that Mr Poch spent more than eight years in an Argentine prison;]] [[noting that Mr Poch was acquitted by the Argentine judge;]] [[noting that Mr Poch and his family were suffering a great deal;]] [[calls on the government, from the point of view of coulance, to make maximum efforts to do justice to the suffering of Julio Poch,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ellian, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kuiken and Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u195	Mr. Chairman. I was just chewing on the Minister's statement: anyone who litigates a cow, places one on it. Why was I chewing on that? A lot of lawsuits aren't about money, they're about recognition. Whether it is the premium affair or people who have experienced violence in youth care or in this case Mr Poch. Eight years, three thousand days, six grandchildren, marriages of children. You'll never get that back. So it's about recognition. I hope that this irrevocable commitment will open the way to an impasse. Whether it's enough will have to prove. Law isn't always justice. I hope that lessons are really being learned. We're not done with this story yet. There'll be more documents. The investigation of the Royal House leaves too many questions open. So it's not a chapter we can leave behind. It's gonna get another sequel. I've co-signed a number of motions. They speak for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u196	That's great. Mrs Kuik was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Shall I suspend for a minute or three or four? Two minutes 30?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u197	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u198	Mr. Chairman. I'll take a look at the motions, but first I'll come to a few questions. Mr Van Nispen asked: why hasn't he tried to come out together? I think, because I want to do justice to both sides, that that has been well tried. That's how I judge it. In this case, I really felt that I should be speaking personally as a minister. You know that, of course, this does not happen often, if not rarely. At some point there has been an impasse, which is why I have said at some point: then I must break this impasse once again with an irrevocable commitment from my side. Then the correct application of Rule 68. I think that if we look back on this dossier, especially Mr Sjoerdsma, but also Mr Van Nispen, we can say to me: until January 2019 it was 'then this piece came again and then that piece came again'. The criticism that was voiced in the questions put to the House at some point led me to take the decision, do you say so? We had to come up with a couple of sturdy researchers to beat the rug to pieces at the various services. That took a while, but I would almost like to say: then you also have something, because there is now a huge amount of pieces. I understand the impatience of Members of Parliament, but I cannot repeat enough that we are really on top of this. I shall now come to the next point. That has also influenced me to say: I think I should do something towards Mr Poch, because this was a very long journey with the pieces. I didn't think that should stand in the way of that other thing, namely that as a government you should take a right step. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the motions. That's four. The Markuszower/Wilders motion in part No. 125 I do not recommend it, because it has rightly been said by some of your Members: of course it is now up to the Minister to do something here at some point, and I have already taken that step myself, and it is up to your Chamber to check how we get out of it. It seems to me that if all these documents are in your Chamber, they can still be discussed in a debate. Then the Sjoerdsma c.s. motion. in piece No. 126. I would like to discuss it in more detail, if you don't mind, Mr President. In the recitals is the argument that a disguised extradition has been chosen. That is not the committee's conclusion. We may or may not agree on that, but I am already in the preamble to that problem. Next comes a request to ensure that Dutch suspects have the opportunity to defend themselves for an independent extradition judge. In principle, a suspect has that possibility in the Netherlands. I would like to give Mr Sjoerdsma a letter in which we, also on the basis of the protocol of December 2019, have a list: that's how we're doing it right now, these are the rules, and that's how we're sticking to them. Then Mr Sjoerdsma should hold the motion until we have had that debate. Otherwise, I have to discourage the motion, because then I have a number of points that I have just listed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u199	Let me look at Mr Sjoerdsma for the Minister's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u200	I would never stand between the Minister and his wish to send a letter, but just for my understanding: I understand that the Minister has a problem with part of the preamble. I also understand that he has a problem with that, because we disagree. I have not heard a problem with the operative part, so if the Minister still has a problem with that, it would be a good thing to specify that, also for the lessons of this Chamber. Otherwise, I see no reason to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u201	It says "the government requests no longer to use legal aid applications to extradite Dutch suspects to countries." I can't agree with that, because I'm just saying that that doesn't happen. The Committee looked at this case and concluded that it did not happen in this case either. There are differences of opinion on these conclusions, but all right, but then I am already at that point. "Instead, make sure that Dutch suspects have the opportunity to defend themselves for an independent extradition judge": in principle, that possibility already exists. Let me put it this way, Mr President, and that is why I am looking at Mr Sjoerdsma through you: I think it is good to have a debate on this with each other. What are the rules? Are we going to stick to that and not get into situations like that Thai situation or this situation? I would suggest that this motion be retabled, perhaps amended, by then. I admit that we will come forward with a letter on this in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u202	I think we can solve it then, even considering the time. The Minister just said, and I think that is an important point: let us avoid these situations. Apart from what we call it, because we call it that, and the Minister calls it otherwise, from the patronage he sees in relation to this independent investigation: my only intention with this investigation is to choke it up; not in this way anymore. If the Minister can indicate in the October letter, regardless of the existing practice, because I know whether any changes are needed in the existing practice to prevent this, then I do not need a motion and I am very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u203	Okay. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u204	That is what has been promised. Fine. Are you gonna hold the motion or are you gonna pull it all the way in?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u205	I assume that this commitment will apply, so I will withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u206	Since the motion-Sjoerdsma c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, is no longer a matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u207	In October 2021 there will be a letter in which we will discuss this, also on the basis of the protocol of December 2019. I will also mention where the gaps in the system might be and how we could solve them. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 127, investigating the role of the Royal House. I have already stumbled upon the consideration that the Machielse Committee confirms that there has been an intervention attempt, because that is not correct. The committee says that someone said that it would have taken place and that the committee did not find any further points of reference. Furthermore, because of the time, I do not want to go into this very much in detail, but an independent investigation has been launched, including this point. So we shouldn't do that again. So I'm gonna advise against that motion. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a final motion, the motion in part no. 128 members of Sjoerdsma, Van Nispen, Ellian and Chicken. I do it in random order, but I suspect that Mr Ellian is the auther intellectualis, considering his name underneath it. I understand that motion. It is about the maximum effort to do justice to the suffering that has arisen. I think it responds to what Mr Van Nispen just asked: are you still having a conversation? So I'll leave that motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u208	Fine. Thank you to the Minister for his presence in this debate. We didn't make it very late and all the more appreciated that he was here today. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-tweedekamer-24.u209	We are going to vote on the remaining three motions next Thursday evening, because next week is Princess Day, so we are already voting on these motions on Thursday. I will close the meeting on 14 September. Thank you.
