ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue with the VSO state of affairs Readoffensive, with the first speaker I will look at my note Mrs Tielen van de VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I always enjoy reading, whether it's Jessica Durlacher's new book or a nice policy plan. But the reading pleasure of this written consultation was not that great. I didn't find enough concrete things in it. That is why I now have two questions and a motion for a resolution. The first question concerns the youth rate of libraries. How's that going? It does not seem to me that it is very complicated to make agreements very quickly as a minister with the library in thirteen municipalities. Perhaps that is even faster than making a written consultation. But I'm curious to see what's going on with that. I'd like a response from the Minister. My second question concerns the El Yassini/Kwint motion on the VAT rates of e-books. In January of this year, the Minister was going to talk to publishers to see how the offer of youth literature could be enriched, also on the basis of that motion. January's already been there, so I'm looking forward to seeing what that conversation got us. Then I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the development of reading skills in various age groups is at least inadequate and that increasing low literacy is a major concern;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the reading offensive, various initiatives are being used to promote reading skills, but this is unclear how they relate to each other and what the expected results are for reading skills;]] [[Whereas one of the objectives, namely "knowing what works," in the Multi-Year Plan for Alphabetisation implies that "a reliable picture by region of the range, type and quality of supply and effectiveness of different interventions" is provided;]] [[calls on the government to produce a compact overview of results, including:]] [[the concrete, measurable objectives for reading skills for both p.o., vo. and adults;]] [[the coherence between all individual reading initiatives;]] [[how and by what means these initiatives contribute to the objectives of improving the literacy of different age groups;]] [[and to inform the Chamber before the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28760-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the Minister states in the letter, several pathways have been used to improve children's reading and reading skills. It's not just about courses at school, it's about trajectories outside. GroenLinks is very happy about that, because being a good reader is important for a lifetime. I think everyone in the Chamber will find that. As far as we are concerned, the library also plays a major role in this. Figures from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau show that the public library is the place where people also meet in the neighbourhood. I can see that myself when I go to the library in Nijmegen. Then there are people of different ages and different backgrounds. That's very good to see. But of course the library also promotes reading pleasure. In the evaluation of the Library Act, the Culture Council states that the public library plays an important role in the school library through the programme. The Minister also says that this is a success. She says that it is actually desirable to extend that to more schools, but that this cannot be done, because financial resources are lacking. At the moment we see that the programme runs at about 40% of primary schools and 10% of VMBO schools. I would like to ask the Minister: is it not strange or undesirable that only part of the students have access to this programme? Does it reach the right target group? Isn't it just the richer schools in the good neighborhoods where this program is? Can the Minister do more to ensure that the Library takes place at school in other schools as well? Mr. Chairman. I have a broader question, also because this minister has libraries in his portfolio. If we say that reading education is so important, can the Minister do even more to promote libraries in general? As spokesperson for youth services, I know that municipalities are writing more and more red figures and that some municipalities are asking: do we have to invest money in keeping libraries open, or should we put it in youth care? I'm worried about that. I can imagine the Minister doing the same. I'm curious about the reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr President, thank you. We can see and read it every day. Research after research shows that there are major problems with the reading, writing and computing skills of our young people. This House has been worried about this for years. I have here a stack of motions that have been tabled in the framework of Curriculum.nu, assessment frameworks, good reading, writing and calculating, the right to learn to read, write and calculate at school. Mr. Kwint is among them several times, Mr. Rog. Anyway, we're assuming that there's a lot of work to be done on this. But one mistake in the letter, or in the Minister's attitude, is that the solution to the problems of reading is sought in the curriculum. I don't think that's right. That's why it's good that Curriculum.now has been declared controversial at the moment.I hope it will be after next week, but that doesn't mean we can't do anything. One of those things is about the Dutch final exam. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the central examinations of Dutch and modern foreign languages have been critical for many years;]] [[considers that the revision of these central examinations should not be linked to the renewal of the curriculum and that this process should be speeded up;]] [[invites the government to renew the central examinations of Dutch and modern foreign languages in consultation with at least the Association of Teachers in Living Languages, the Council for the Dutch National and Mastery Team, and to deal with this separately from the curriculum review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28760-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u6	So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u7	There is a question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u8	I'm a little confused, because Mr Van Meenen says he's okay with Curriculum.nu being declared controversial. I'm not okay with that at all. I think that project has only become less bad because of what we have built on it in the previous missionary cabinet period. Now it has been declared controversial, but you are going to say something about this section. Just because there's a connection between the exams and the finals doesn't strike me as crazy, does it? Then where did this motion come from? I'm not ruling out that I think it's a good idea in the end, but I'm just curious where it comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u9	I am going to try to show Mr Kwint that it is a good idea. Look, we did indeed try to bring Curriculum.nu back to its core. In fact, we have tried this several times in recent years. That core includes mathematics, mathematics and language. But I also recently compared it to a thousand knot. Every time you think "we've brought it back to the core," it starts to grow again. This threatens to happen again, especially if you are going to connect all kinds of goals that are not directly related to the curriculum. We all know Mrs. Bosman's investigations. She says it's not the curriculum, it's the didactics that aren't good. We're gonna have that discussion with each other. I'm glad we're taking the time to have that discussion right before we get back to that curriculum. But apart from that, we also have a huge problem with Dutch teachers. There is almost no one who chooses Dutch anymore. That is a huge problem for the language skills of our young people. That's how you should read this motion. There are all kinds of ideas about how that exam can be different so that it is no longer just a text statement, but that it makes clear the tension, the romance and the splendor of that course, which inspires people to choose that course. That is completely unrelated to Curriculum.nu for me. We just have to do that right now. It is not the first time we have discussed this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u11	Sorry for the long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u12	It is indeed a day when we are discussing a lot of motions and proposals that we have already discussed before. That's right. What you said about Dutch, I agree with you, but then my question remains: why do you explain Curriculum.now controversially? It was said, we're gonna think about it. Yeah, nothing "we're gonna think about it." We park it in front of a formation table, whereas we have seen earlier that there are excellent majorities to be found in the Chamber to bring that project back to the proportions that you and I would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u13	Well, for me, it's going to explain controversially far beyond the formation table. I also found it controversial two years ago, just to put it in those terms. Yeah, that's just the way it is! If Mr Kwint really wants to talk about Curriculum, including at formation tables, then I invite him with his party to do so actively. Let us hope that we will meet there, I would almost say, but this subject is not on the top list for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr Kwint very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u15	That is exactly why, even when the cabinet is decommissioned, we can talk about it fine here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u16	Well, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u17	That discussion we're gonna have at another time maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u18	Let's have that discussion at the procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u19	... still, perhaps at the procedural meeting next Thursday. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u20	Interrupt or, uh? Oh, he just wants to stand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr Van Meenen was ready, so I give the floor to Mr Peters, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is much to be said about reading education, and also about the fact that in our country we have a quarter of pupils leaving the school as functional illiterate. That means we think they can read the paper, but they can't. They can read the paper, but they don't understand what it says. These children have a strong handicap for life. Some of them are lucky: they are under the heading of dyslexia retraced by commercial agencies. Somehow that's a good thing, because they learn to write and learn in the basics. It is striking that by far the majority of these children have white and hope-educated parents. Kids without such parents don't have dyslexia, they just have bad luck. Mr. Chairman. In primary school, all children learn to read and write in the basics, at least that's how it's supposed to be. That's why we call it elementary school. And we can do that: we know how to do it, but we don't. At least for a quarter of our children, that is totally inadequate. That's not acceptable. Today, during this two-minute debate, I'm afraid we won't solve that. I do not think there is a motion either, although Mr Kwint will be tabling a very sensible motion on my behalf in the near future. But it has our focus and our attention. Together with my colleague Lucille Werner, I will soon come up with an initiative on reading education, which we believe will at least make a difference. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you. Finally, Mr Kwint, SP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We often talk about reading offensives, reading education and development. Unfortunately, the development is going in the wrong direction when it comes to the number of people who are functionally low-literate in the Netherlands. That is not for nothing, because I believe that we all share the belief that a well-functioning education system should not de facto deliver people under-literate. I'm afraid that's what's gonna happen. I do not think that one-two-three easy solutions can be found. I think there are things the government could do better. That is a point on which I have often had an exchange of views with this cabinet. Make sure, for example, that teaching methods are scientifically substantiated, make sure that a school before it starts doing something with students also writes properly why it actually does so in such a way. That is why the motion already announced by Mr Peters is glowing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a clear approach to declining reading skills among young people is lacking through the reading offensive;]] [[Whereas school is the most important factor in teaching literacy;]] [[Considers that an adequate approach to reducing school literacy should be based on scientifically proven reading methods;]] [[calls on the government to use only scientifically proven reading methods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Peters.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28760-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u25	I've been doubting for quite some time whether I should write down reading methods or teaching methods. I wrote it both down in my motion, but I finally opted for reading methods.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u26	Nice theme. Thank you, Mr Kwint. I'm looking around. I understand that Mr De Hoop also wishes to speak. But it is equally strict: here too, if you did not take part, you should not actually take part in this debate. But if no one objects, I would be happy to give you the floor. Then Mr. Beertema may, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u27	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. If it's okay, a request went to the Registry this afternoon, but apparently the communication didn't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u28	Then you have even more right to speak, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a rich country like the Netherlands, 2021 is so that one in four 15-year-olds cannot read and write enough. This is, in addition to the appalling figure, also compared to our neighbouring countries, very bad. Our education is no longer the emancipation engine we want to see for young people, but a source of inequality of opportunity. We have to reverse that trend. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, with a major offensive against low literacy, we ensure that everyone can participate. This is becoming particularly important in the increasingly digital society. Among others, six Dutch professors have pointed out the old habits that the government must let go of in order to achieve improvements. My group is particularly concerned about the great influence of children's home environment on their reading skills. What family a child grows up in should not determine how pupils develop at school. Equality of opportunity is an important policy priority, including in the curriculum review. That is why I am tabling the next motion, supported by Mr Westerveld van GroenLinks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the problem of inadequate learning of reading in school children affects the pupil population to an uneven extent;]] [[Whereas it is indicated that equality of opportunity is an important policy priority in the curriculum review but does not specify how equality of opportunity is promoted to improve reading skills;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear how and with what means the equality of opportunity related to reading skills will be improved and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Hoop and Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28760-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u30	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm wondering. Maybe that's because I'm just on this committee. We talk about equality of opportunity all the time. We all know that, unfortunately, not everyone has equal opportunities. We put that right. But why don't you talk about: the basis on order for everyone? Isn't that a better version of what you're talking about? Isn't that what you're saying? Because then it has more to do with good didactics for every child.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u31	I agree with you that the basis should be good for everyone. At the moment, education is not the match for reading skills. You just see that children who are not read enough at home and who get less of the Dutch language, end up in school more unevenly. Instead of correcting it, this inequality is stuck. What we as a group consider important is that extra attention should be paid to this in the course of the curriculum review, so that school becomes that emancipation engine and the equality of opportunity is drawn back together. The basis should therefore be better, but more attention should be paid to this in order to restore this base.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u32	I think I understand and I can agree with it, but if we learn to read and write every child in the base at a primary school, which is called that for that reason, I think we will solve the problem. I would like to bet a lot on good and much better didactics in all places. Anyway, that's what we're gonna hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u33	I would have hoped it would be as easy as Mr Peters says, but in practice it just turns out that reading at home has a lot of effect and that this only increases equality of opportunity. Hence this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr Bertema would like the last word for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u35	Opportunity equality always sounds so positive, especially when it comes to reading skills. But Mr. De Hoop explains it very well. How is that supposed to look concrete? Should we appoint consultants to read at home? Why don't these parents teach their children Dutch? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u36	I think I specifically said in my motion that it was about those six professors who took these key points into account. It says in concrete terms how this could be done. I think that should be properly discussed in the Ministry and then we can look at it afterwards. Unfortunately, there is no level playing field in children's homes. I would like everyone to be able to speak Dutch at home, but we should also support people in that, as I say to Mr Beertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u37	We can support people in that, but I would like to say to you and the rest of the committee that education must not, of course, carry all the social problems on its own shoulders like an atlas, because we cannot solve this, Mr De Hoop. This inequality exists, but education does have its limits. As a government, you can't get too involved in what happens at home in the first four years behind the front door. It should be from your point of view, I understand, because everything has to be done. But acknowledge that education is limited in its possibilities. I'd like it to be different, but I'm afraid it's not. There's opportunity inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u38	I agree with you that education is limited in its possibilities. That is why, as a party, we have also made a great deal of money available to invest in education, because I and my party are convinced that education can and must be that equal partner in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mr. Beertema, I have reason to believe that we are going to have this debate more often in the coming period...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u40	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u41	So let's leave it at that for now. I thank my colleagues. I shall suspend for a few moments and then we can listen to the response from the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u43	Thank you, Mr President. It has been some time since we talked to your Chamber about reading and its importance. I do not think that we can talk about this enough, because reading skills, being able to read properly, is an essential condition for us to be able to really participate in society. Where can you really participate if you can't read properly? In addition, reading is also an incredible enrichment for our lives. So to speak, if you're reading, you can go home all over the world. You really get new perspectives or new insights, and you also learn to move around in others' lives. That's also something that's so incredibly important in our lives. Mrs. Tielen also had a nice reading tip. Well, if I may give you one, the foundations, a beautiful book, released by Ramsey Nasr. I just got my hands on this book. It shows how this crisis has made it clear to us that education and culture are so essential for our society and worth investing in. Let's take that lesson with us for a while. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, I come to a number of questions and a motion for a resolution. Mr Slob will be responsible for the motions in the field of education. I almost forgot to say: of course I congratulate you all either on your re-election in the Chamber or on your first presence in this Chamber. I hope that during this new period you will also be happy to perform in this house. Mr. Chairman. We all believe that the youth membership of libraries is preferably free. There were still a number of municipalities that hadn't arranged that. I would like to say to Mrs Tielen that, of course, I immediately wrote to all these municipalities to remind them that their choice might not have been the most sensible, given the importance of reading for young people. I asked them to reconsider that. Meanwhile, because you better know for sure, we are also working on that law that comes into the Collecting Act OCW and which will be submitted to your Chamber after the summer. In the meantime, I hope that these municipalities will reconsider the youth contribution. So that amendment of the law is coming up, too. We work here on two tracks. Then the point of the e-books. The discussion between me, Mr Vijlbrief and the sector took place. You were also informed about the results of that interview. On 3 February last, the written answers to questions on this subject, previously raised by the VVD, CDA and D66, were answered. We also reported to you on that discussion. In this discussion the question has been raised why we do not see that VAT reduction one-on-one in the price. We have also questioned the publishers critically about this. It is because price formation is a more complex mechanism. That is what they have explained. Mr Vijlbrief and I thought that was an understandable story at the time, and we explained this in the answers to you. We have agreed that the extent to which the consumer now benefits from this VAT reduction will also be taken into account in the early assessment of the VAT reduction in 2022. That's all in what we've been saying to you before. Then there is Mrs Westerveld's question about the libraries at school. I find it incredibly important with you that every child who goes to school also has access to a library; albeit a library at school, albeit a library that is preferably as close to school as possible, albeit a school that does so in a different way than the concept library at school. Very specific about your question, I can say that about 40% of primary schools and a quarter of secondary schools have a form of the Library at school. That is a rather pricey concept, by the way. Do we want to implement this throughout primary and secondary education? I think that's what you want to know. The introduction into primary education requires an additional 60 million and a further 60 million for the introduction into the whole of secondary education. These are structural costs that we have to bear together. By the way, I would also say that schools can, of course, also arrange otherwise for children to have access to the library, for example, by going to the neighbouring library or by providing for it in a different way. I shall now turn to Mrs Tielen's motion for a resolution. 108. I would like to say a few words about this. We all want the efforts that are being made to increase reading skills and enjoyment in the Netherlands to be as concrete as possible. We all want there to be a logical learning line and coherence between early school education, what we teach parents, what we do at school and what we do later to prevent low literacy and to keep track of reading skills. But I would also like to remind you that in 2019 a motion was adopted in the debate on low literacy, which also called for concrete, measurable objectives to be reported on. That motion then became a sta-in-the-way in the administrative agreements I tried to make with municipalities about tackling low literacy. I believe that at that time, at the request of the authors of the motion, I removed those obligations from that administrative agreement in order to reach an agreement with the municipalities. This was achieved, albeit with one more point of discussion: indexation. The municipalities wanted the commitment that we would always index the contribution. I cannot make that commitment as a minister, but that point is still on the table. I do not want us to do the same again, that we say again: all this needs to be monitored; this needs to be reported. I think we all want the same thing in this, but my fear is in the front, namely that, before we make all these agreements, we are not going to work together, but we are mainly reporting to each other about what we are doing. Yeah, I'd like it to be concrete, too. Yeah, I'd like to measure effects, too. May I arrange this with you? We come to your Chamber this autumn with a detailed action plan. In that we show exactly how we are shaping that offensive. I do not want to get into the situation again that we need a lot of partners to do this in advance: if we are to be primarily concerned with measuring and monitoring and to be taken into account, then we would rather not sign and we all go our own ways. That would be a shame. I'd like to avoid that. Given the progress of the previous motion, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u44	Then I do not know whether the Minister and I speak the same language when we are talking about reading skills. The word "monitor" is not in this motion. I hear from the Minister's voice upliftment that she feels some frustration with administrative agreements. We had that frustration here in the Chamber, too, so I recognize it. At the same time, let us make an action plan, which is why the motion is there, where it is clear what we expect to see such an action plan deliver and where there is also coherence between all these initiatives. That's actually exactly what the Minister says. There are a lot of good initiatives. At least, I think so. But it is unclear to me how they are linked, even after reading the written report. Maybe we speak the same language and we only have a difference in the date. Well, I might be able to deal with this minister a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u45	For the summer is far too early anyway. We do not even know what budget will be available for the summer. We really need a little care here in order to reach good agreements with all partners. I understand very well that you want to look at the coherence, how learning lines look and how we maintain developments. That's what we all want. We don't need a motion for that. You ask me to produce a compact overview of results with concrete, measurable objectives. These are all things that you have to measure and monitor. That's exactly what we got stuck on last time with all those partners. Soon we will be running in the same circle and the Chamber will ask me again why I cannot agree to this with all the partners. Yes, because they think the administrative burden is too high, because the Chamber asked for it. And then the Chamber asks me again: can we have one less? I don't think we should want to do that little circle again. We're all working hard on this. Everyone. I think we have the same idea here and we do not need to convince each other that we think this is important, but let us first make those agreements before we have to lay down here in the Chamber exactly what the results are like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u46	I would like the Chamber to show that it is really an urgent objective. Low literacy is worryingly high. I don't think we start with an approach, but we already have a lot. I would really like to ask this Minister to take that together and come up with a plan to show that she is indeed serious, more than just the words that come in the Acts, and that we can work somewhere with each other. I'm really looking for that connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u47	Clear, but the Minister will stand by her judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u48	I understand that, but then I come back with the same answer and then you want me to make those appointments anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u49	The motion in part No. 108 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u50	It's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u51	Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 109 by Mr Van Meenen. Or do you have a question on the previous subject, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u52	Yeah, a question I just asked, but maybe not clear enough. We know that almost all the municipalities in the country simply have huge financial problems, for example because of youth care. So municipalities have to think: where do I get that money from? And there aren't a lot of pots where a town council can pull it off. Soon you will come to the choice that some aldermen have to make: do I raise taxes or will I cut down on institutions like libraries? This is a general concern which I believe is shared by the whole Chamber, because we simply see that children, for example, are less and less able to read; Mrs Tielen just said it. The question to the Minister is how we are going to ensure that in the coming years libraries remain open and preferably also fully-fledged libraries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u53	That is a good and fair question. I'm sorry I skipped it for a second. I think that the first point is that the problem of youth aid is being solved, because that would be a great deal for municipalities. Look, I made 150 million available for municipalities in the second support package for culture for a reason, to ensure, among other things, that they can also keep the cultural offer in their municipality, including libraries. I think that is very important. Then there is something else about the libraries, which we have discussed with this Chamber before. I would actually consider it worth considering having the next discussion. The Library Act regulates a lot, but not the obligation for municipalities to keep libraries overridden. If you really want a guarantee for that, you have to guarantee it in the law. But we also know that there is a price tag on that, because it means a task increase for municipalities, and then we simply have to pay for it. But if we're really all together... look, I think you'll come up with an end when you solve the municipalities' financial problems, because I don't know many aldermen who take pleasure in closing a library. We also have a library program for municipalities that no longer had a library, according to the Asscher motion. I opened the first library with him again. But if we really care about it for a long time, it is at some point to consider the obligation to lay down the law. That's the best guarantee you can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mrs Westerveld, shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u55	Well, maybe I should just leave it at that. I think it's interesting to talk about that for once. I am also just a week spokesperson for Culture and therefore just a week spokesperson for Libraries, but I think this is a good answer. Let us work together to solve the financial problems that affect almost all the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you. Then we'll continue with the judgments on the other motions filed. First of all, of course, the chair must be cleaned, and then we shall proceed with Mr Van Meenen's motion, if it is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion by Mr Van Meenen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 109, I can give judgment room. It is important that we work on the continuous learning lines, but it is also important that we work very hard on the exams, both for Dutch and for modern foreign languages. We talked to your room about that, too. I therefore see this as a further underlining of it. Mr Peters made an announcement of something he is going to come up with. Of course, I look forward to that with interest. Can I give him another look at the report on the budget debate on 15 October? We have discussed in detail the 25% functional illiterate people and what exactly that figure refers to. This has to do with the PISA study, which is mainly about the difficulties students have in evaluating and reflecting, so the in-depth reading. That is indeed a high percentage. Of course we do not accept that, but it is also good to look at this in conjunction. Mr. Chairman. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 110 submitted on the scientifically proven reading methods. I can give this motion judgment Chamber, with one comment, namely that it is even enshrined in our Constitution that we can never force schools to use it. For there is even a constitutional right, at least for special education, to choose their own teaching methods. But it is obvious that it is very important that we simply know which reading methods are scientifically proven, as you call it. Then it is also important, as I say to you and to Mr Peters, who has submitted this motion to bring it to the attention of the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u58	Mr. Kwint, your motion will be judged Chamber with a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you for that. I understand that we cannot dictate which teaching methods schools should use. I do not rule out the fact that the two authors of the motion may weigh that particular fundamental right a little differently, but we are both convinced that we can, of course, impose conditions. You can't just do everything. We have had this discussion, for example, when it comes to the method of teaching sexual diversity. How can we encourage as much as possible that a school teaches in a way and with a method that cuts wood, that cuts proven wood? In my view, we hope to see this commitment together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u60	That's why I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. I think that is a very clear wish which is also supported by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mr. Peters still?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u62	I welcome this answer. It would be crazy for you to be a nurse and say, scientifically speaking, I have to turn on the IV like this, but today my gut feels like I'm trying the other way around. I don't think that's possible. We may not be able to impose what teaching methods are used here, but we can make demands on the quality of the lessons, so that is what we should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u63	That was an encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u64	Yes, I have assessed that in that way, Madam President. In my view, Mr De Hoop rightly stressed the importance of starting reading by reading from a young age. I don't think we can repeat that enough. In the motion in part No. 111 which he has submitted together with Mrs Westerveld, he also links with the equality of opportunity and its promotion. You can talk about it long and wide, but it is just important for all children that they learn to read well and that they start doing so early in the day. I can give this motion judgment Chamber, because it is also in line with the ambition we have already expressed in the reading offensive. Together with the schools, governments, libraries and all those involved, we are working on an action agenda to take these steps precisely in the context of equality of opportunity. In that respect, Madam President, I can give this motion a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u65	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u66	The motions that have been tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would like to thank the two directors for coming to the Chamber.
