ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome all Members of Parliament. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. I now give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Dijkhoff, on behalf of the VVD. Speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. It was just starting to make sense, we thought. If we did it right and followed the measures, the number of infections would be reduced. And if that went down long enough, you'd have room for relaxation. But unfortunately, nothing makes sense in this crisis. Because by now, we don't have one, we have two viruses. The old variant drops according to schedule. We can do that; we can get it underneath. But the number of infections with the British version of the virus is increasing, and hard. That is very worrying: a third wave is coming towards us. Those are concerns about full ic's and even more deaths from corona. Those are concerns about more delay of other care and even more deaths from cancer, for example. The old virus needed a big tap to get it under control. With the lockdown and certainly the additional curfew, that tap seems to have been distributed. But the new variant needs extra taps. Which is why I think it will be necessary to extend the curfew. That is painful, but if necessary, we support it, too, if the cabinet considers it necessary after the OMT advice. Mr. Chairman. Vaccinate it. Yeah, we started too late. But I also saw in the newspaper this morning that we're catching up with that delay. That's good. That only brings us, like all the other countries, to the following problem: do we have enough vaccines later? Now all the energy must be in there, as far as the VVD is concerned. Even if that means we're going to use the Russian Sputnik. Rather a Russian syringe than the ic on the ventilator tube, I would say, but of course only if the EEA tests that positively. And can the cabinet indicate how in the wonderful world of big pharma, EU geopolitics and purchasing battles we will do everything we can to get out well? Would it make sense, like last year's protection equipment, to use a special envoy on the procurement and delivery of vaccines? In addition to the question of how to get as many vaccines as possible for now as soon as possible, there is also the question of what is needed in the longer term, because we do not know very much yet. Are we going to be protected forever after those vaccines, or are we going to have to have a new shot every year? Does that only apply to vulnerable people? How do we organize that? Is that under consideration, too? And is the cabinet, which, of course, is very busy fighting today's pandemic and vaccination now, willing to ask someone to make scenarios for that? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the road map. I have said before that I do not believe in the predictability of the crisis and that I understand the call for a roadmap and firm formulas, but that it does not work that way in the end. I therefore see this road map as a one-way street. You can see what additional measures will come with if things get worse, but you can't really see how to relax when things get better. That is a matter of steering and driving and a judgment at the moment itself. I would like, if we can think of relaxation again later, to move away from the choice of sectors. I would prefer to divide the space, if there is one, rather give all sectors a little bit, rather than throw one sector completely open and keep the other completely closed. You're gonna need the sectors themselves. You need to look together to see how you can do something with the least risk of infection. I would rather and by appointment limited to a restaurant and by appointment limited to pick out furniture, than the catering industry completely closed and the furniture boulevard completely open. For example, I would prefer us to have two shifts of ten tables and move the end time of 10 p.m., rather than one shift of fifteen tables, because that end time is rigid. And maybe we should also look more closely at the number of people per square meter, rather than at general ceilings. That's how I see it now, making what's happened, of click-and-collect. Is it ideal? No, but it's better than nothing. I therefore urge the cabinet to build on that. Then the field labs must also continue, not only in the theatre, but also in the catering, sports and events, and we like to see acceleration in that. Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the event guarantee fund is here now. I do have questions about the date of 1 July. That makes accounting sense, because it is the start of a new quarter. But it may not be very practical, because June is also quite a logical month to expect that there can be relaxations. In addition, very flat, that in June the European Championship football takes place, with three, hopefully four, games of the Dutch Team, three of which are in the Arena. Isn't it better to organize something around that before we have a problem with spontaneous parties that the police have to go to and we can't control? Because if you want to do this responsibly, a large screen on a square isn't enough. You really need to organize more for that. If you want to do that right, there are risks involved. So can we not open up the guarantee fund sooner, for example on 1 June, or 1 juno, as is sometimes said in cabinet circles? Finally, Mr President. For children, it is extremely important that the schools are reopened. It's nice for the parents, too. But to keep it that way, parents really need to stay home and work. I also hope that everyone will do the same. Mr. Chairman. Every decision we make also has disadvantages and damages. It's always a trade-off. What's the best thing about the virus and our health? What's best for the economy? What is best for society and our mental state of mind? A decision is never 100% logical. It makes sense that we're actually done, but we have to go on together now and it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u4	I think that Mr Dijkhoff is right to argue that we must ensure that as many vaccines as possible are obtained as soon as possible. I therefore very much agree with his question to the cabinet as to what is happening. But I would also like to ask Mr Dijkhoff whether he also thinks that we should map out whether there are any other companies that could produce vaccines, so that this is actually going to happen. How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u5	That sounds like a good idea. So I want to support that. I have the idea right away that we should not use all their capacity for vaccination, because of course they also make other medicines that we need. But if there are companies that can contribute to production, you could make a different deal with the current producers, so that they can earn back their investments and we can scale up production. This should certainly be done within the framework of the Russian variant. If the EEA approves it, then... Yes, the Russian variant of the vaccine! The Sputnik, nice name. I myself tend to be a little laughing about that, but, seriously, if this is just good stuff that we can vaccinate with and we can, for example, manufacture it in Europe in collaboration with them, then please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u6	Now there is a so-called pool of the World Health Organisation, which calls for cooperation and sharing all existing knowledge. Does Mr Dijkhoff also think that we should take a more active part in this and, if necessary, the pharmaceutical companies that are now developing vaccines should be forced to share their information in it? We can then take the follow-up steps, in which everything and anyone who can produce such a vaccine can actually do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u7	I understand that morally. I'm just afraid that if we take that route of a legal battle... Maybe you'll even win him in three years. Legal processes take a long time due to deep pockets and a long breath. We don't have time for that. I'd rather we step up the pressure by pointing out someone who's gonna talk to them, like, "Okay, you don't want it, but we want it. Under what conditions do you want it? Is that fair? Can we make quick arrangements about that?" Very flatteringly, I would prefer that we pay a little more, allowing us to scale up production within a few months, rather than being morally right and having a clear verdict that forces them to do so in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u8	I now hear Mr Dijkhoff talking a few times about the Russian vaccine. He's willing to implement this. But does he still want to do this if the Russians themselves are not able to inoculate their own population? That is because they do not have enough vaccines for their own population and they also use the Sputnik vaccine as a geopolitical means?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u9	Here's how I see it. There are thousands of ways to show that we shouldn't do it, and there may only be one route that shows that it's sensible. But if there is, I'll take it. I believe that, on behalf of our standards, we should check with the EEA whether the data is correct, whether we trust it and whether it is useful. If that is the case and the EEA says "the stuff itself is absolutely fine, apart from who it comes from and from geopolitical interests," I would say, just as Germany is doing now, let's see if we can work together by producing it here. I believe that you will have additional production and that will not affect Russia's production capacity. Otherwise you will indeed find yourself in a moral dilemma, where I think very openly and in an abstract sense: it would be very hard to say to Russia "come" and then Russia says to its own people: you have to wait, because we are sending them to the Netherlands. But when I look at my own family, I think: I'll do article 5 and bring on those viruses. But maybe I'm very special now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u10	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u11	I meant vaccines. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u13	See, this is karma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u14	Yeah, well. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a country with smart, creative and hardworking people. It is a country that has conquered many crises in the past because of the courage of its people. In such a strong country, you also expect a government with smart people who know what to do and who know how to deal with problems, but also, above all, how to solve them. Mr. Chairman. But we have a cabinet, in particular, a VWS minister, who has been cutting back over and over again for a year: from mouth caps to apps, from testing policy to source and contact research, and from patenting to criminals of personal data from people who have been tested to the vaccination policy. Only Bulgaria, and perhaps Ethiopia, is doing worse than we do when it comes to vaccination. We're dangling at the bottom of all the lists. That is shameful and unworthy of the Netherlands. We still have freezer boxes full of hundreds of thousands of unused vaccines. This morning, seniors were sent away at a puncture site, that of the GGD in Doetinchem, because there were no needles available. Mr. Chairman. It can't be described with a pen. We have a minister of health who, in a blind panic, is shuffling with figures by adjusting the calculation method in such a way that it seems as if more people have been vaccinated, to come back to that a little later after the hospitals have whistled him back hard and publicly. But the one who let it all happen is Prime Minister Rutte, the man who is also here today mostly playing with his phone. Mr. Chairman. How on earth is it possible that a country like Denmark has vaccinated six times more people than the Netherlands and a country like Ireland almost five times as many? Under Prime Minister Rutte, we have fallen to the level of a country like Bulgaria, a country where vaccines are still spread with horses and cars. Again, I call on the Cabinet to voluntarily vaccinate more and more quickly. Anything that comes in with vaccines should be used within a few days. The colleague of the VVD also mentioned the following. Has the Prime Minister already called Russian President Putin to get a large shipment of Russian corona vaccine Sputnik? That vaccine with 91.6% effectiveness is much more effective than the vaccines of AstraZeneca and Janssen. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. I say to the cabinet: immediately use the voluntary vaccination of the group of people who are now mainly on the ic. Those are the vulnerable people over 60 and the chronically ill. That's what it takes now. Because the sooner they have been vaccinated, the sooner the pressure on the ic's will decrease and the sooner the restrictions on freedom can be lifted for the whole of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing the primary schools are opening up again. I would like to know from the cabinet what the consequences of the Lansingerland study would be that children play a greater role in the distribution of the British variant. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the hospitality industry remains forced to shut down even longer. I'm afraid they won't last much longer. Hence again my appeal: at least compensate for the full 100%, otherwise many entrepreneurs will be destroyed. And why does this cabinet consistently refuse to carry out the wish of a majority in the Chamber to increase the salary of healthcare workers in a structural manner? Both the Wilders motion and the Marijnissen/Asscher motion who asked for it were ignored by the cabinet with 1,000 cheap excuses. This is shameful, especially when we see that this same cabinet wants the Commissioners of state-owned companies to receive higher rewards, but not health care workers. That's the priority of a bankrupt cabinet without conscience. Mr. Chairman. We need to stop this perpetual carelessness of the VVD. We need to make care a top priority again. We need to invest more, more in the care staff, more in their salary, but also in more hospitals, more ic capacity and more emergency services. In short, just more care, much more care, is what the Netherlands needs now. Surely it is unacceptable that according to the Integral Cancer Center Netherlands there are now 4,000 people with cancer in the Netherlands who do not know that yet, because they have not gone to the hospital because of the scaling-down of care? Surely it must never happen again that treatments of people with heart problems and kidney failure are postponed, that chemotherapy and kidney transplants are postponed, because we have not invested enough in healthcare. Even today 42% of hospitals are unable to provide that scheduled regular care. That's a hell of a shame. Those are people who, as we can read in the newspaper, are now in pain at home and can no longer move. There's no one looking at them. And the cabinet says in the letter: then you should contact your insurer. This is not how we want the care in the Netherlands arranged? People sitting at home with pain and being sent to the insurance company. It's a gross disgrace. More concern. That's what the Netherlands needs. Not carelessness, but more investment in care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Chairman. I think we all looked at the press conference with a double feeling on Tuesday. In my opinion, the Prime Minister and the Minister stood there with a double feeling, because we are going to relax, we are going to be limited, but we are also all doubting whether we can actually do so. There is a British variant that is estimated to be 50% more contagious, and it seems a matter of time before a third wave approaches us. And yet my group, and I think most people here in the Chamber, think that opening primary schools is a good and important step. It is important because of the well-being of children, because of growing learning disadvantages and, above all, because of the growing gap between the children who can come along and the children who are falling further behind, whose question is whether they can be caught up at all. A lot is being asked of schools, teachers and school boards to shape in a short time. There are also several signals in the sense of "help us." What will the Ministry of Education do in the coming period to actively support schools, for example if there is an infection in the classroom? If there is to be an act, then schools should not be alone. I think that, as a Chamber, we have had that double feeling in previous debates. If we are honest, we have often been more enthusiastic about speeding up the process of easing the situation, as is the case with my group, but I think that many people recognise this, rather than when the cabinet came up with tough measures to control the virus. At the same time, as representatives of the people, we also have a duty and a duty to look further, not to look at that fence, but also to look over it. That is why I would also like to point out here that, as far as my group is concerned, the cabinet at the end of this week would be better to extend a curfew than to conclude in three weeks' time that it would actually have been better to do so afterwards. Then we run the risk of having discussions again about schools that have to be closed, about secondary schools that, because we haven't done it, cannot open up or about the possibility of click-and-collect that should be reversed. That is a risk that my group does not want to run if there are indeed indications that we have seen Mr Van Dissel's figures again today to prolong it, rather than stop it, and to see what the effect of opening up schools is, but also the growth of the British variant. Then vaccinations. The slow start has left us a little behind in Europe, but we have also seen over the last few days that the shortage of vaccines is the real problem that is not only going to arise here but throughout Europe. Each country is going to have more puncture capacity than vaccines. We have also seen how the European Commission, AstraZeneca and England are now having all kinds of discussions and ugliness about it. But what can be done to bring that production forward faster and still get more from Q2 to Q1? Mr Dijkhoff referred to the Special Envoy who was involved in a similar problem this spring around a shortage of test materials. Couldn't that be here, too? Mrs Marijnissen then asked in the event of interruption: could there not be more production in other places? I think both questions are right, and they are also in my group. Could such an envoy not work again and could the suggestion, as Mrs Marijnissen does, not be taken into account? Even if there are hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of additional vaccines a month earlier, in conflict with the British variant can really make a difference. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with two final points, first of all the communication. We discussed this in the previous debate. The letter now contains quite a lot of information about it. Yet I was not entirely satisfied with that. The debate that we had explicitly two weeks ago was about what the cabinet can do to communicate more in order to comply more with the basic rules. Washing more hands, that's just descending. The cabinet itself writes in the letter that in Lansingerland, on the basis of what is now known, there is a chance that it has contributed more awareness and compliance that despite the British variant there is no higher contamination than in the rest of the Netherlands. That compliance, that being more conscious, so also wash for hands, for very basic things, works. Still, I don't see anything about it in the letter. In his report published this week, the ESC argues with an English term for more gentlemen reminders. I do not think there is enough in the letter, even though quite a lot is being written about communication. However, I would like the Prime Minister to give a more explicit answer to this, also in the light of his commitments in the last debate. Mr. Chairman. I want to finish with a quote. It's a quote I've been reminded of before, but what I had to think about when I heard the Prime Minister say Tuesday at the press conference, "we're making mistakes and there'll be more" and the Health Minister said, "it's human work, so there's gonna be mistakes, but we're gonna fix them and we're gonna be open about it." This made me think of a quote by Theodore Roosevelt that I was reminded of earlier: "It is not the critic that counts; it indicates when someone stumbles or says what could have been better. The honor is due to the man who really stands in the arena, his face smeared with dust, sweat and blood; he who fights hard; who makes mistakes and fails over and over again, because that is inevitable, but who nevertheless tries to achieve something with great enthusiasm and great dedication and who gives himself up for the good cause."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Oh, Mr. Wilders has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'm a little surprised about it, but well, everyone has to choose in five minutes that the colleague of the CDA doesn't talk about the big problem of regular care. Once again, corona is terrible, and anyone who has it must take care of you. But there are so many people in the Netherlands, more than they have corona, who are now having problems because their operations are being scaled down. As I said in my speech, 42% of hospitals do not yet provide regular care. People at home are in pain. People sit at home and can't move. What's the perspective? I didn't hear you ask about that, and it's not in the cabinet's letter at all. The health secretary isn't here. I wish her well from here. I will therefore put these questions to one of the gentlemen here. Where's the perspective for all those people sitting at home now? Their surgery has been postponed, whether it's kneeling, back or worse. 4,000 people in the Netherlands do not know that they already have cancer, because they have not gone to the hospital. Where's that perspective? That's what we need to talk about here, isn't it? We represent those people, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u20	In my view, the last part of the letter does indeed deal with it, also in connection with motions tabled jointly by Mr Wilders and myself, and also with Mr Marijnissen. I believe that this perspective is being worked on. We have often seen here that the healthcare system we know in the Netherlands is very efficient, but it is not very well prepared when there is a health crisis. Effective but not effective if there is a health crisis is not good. That is why we have adopted various motions, together, to change that towards the future. That's answer one. Answer two is that, if you want to get the pressure on regular care down, the other side of the matter is that we as a Chamber have to take co-responsibility for the fact that you need firm measures to achieve that. Saying that you rule out curfews, that there should not be a quarantine obligation and that the catering industry should immediately open, does not contribute to helping down the pressure on care. If we really think that is important, we as a Chamber must be honest and take co-responsibility for heavy measures that we all find annoying and difficult to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u21	This wasn't meant to blackmail each other. However, if the CDA colleague wants to do so: yes, if we only start vaccination in January with the VWS minister and now have about as many people vaccinated as the UK does in one day, then you ask for problems and then it doesn't solve itself at all. So the cabinet is the first to be responsible for that misery. But let me say a positive thing: we have had stories here about government commissioners to give vaccination policy more schwung, and I have also supported it. But what are we doing for all those people who are now, today, sitting at home, not in a few years' time, we have indeed, in the past, tabled motions together on pain, unable to move and who may have cancer or other diseases? Again, my mailbox is full of mails from people who are worried about that. Of course, everyone's worried about corona, but people are also worried about their own care. Where's the perspective? Why don't you ask this cabinet what it's doing to get people cared for in the next few weeks and months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u22	First of all, we all, not just as parliamentarians, have to give them more perspective by sticking to the measures, by acting wisely. The second is that if you want to reduce the pressure on care, the annoying truth is that these tough measures are needed, that curfew is needed, that the quarantine obligation, which the majority of the Chamber opposes, is necessary and that we cannot say: we are simply going to open up the catering industry. Because that's not going to lower the pressure on care. If we have an honest story to these people, then we all want the pressure on care to be reduced so that the care can be delivered. One of the lessons of the pandemic is that in the future something that has arisen in 20, 30 years cannot be changed, but it must be changed. Some parties were already convinced of that. So we will also have to tell the truth about this hard, difficult message as representatives of the people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u23	You know, one of the reasons that that happens is because parties like yours, the VVD and others have just shrunk too much over the past few years. As a result, we do not have a separate crisis care situation, so people simply don't get their turn when they have complaints. That has nothing to do with the hospitality business. Oh, come on. The hospitality department can't help that, can it? Parties like the CDA, the VVD and others have closed hospitals in recent years, they've brought back intensive care units, shut down emergency services, everything where normal people who get sick, everyone gets sick sometimes before going to hospital. Now they're home in pain. You should have done something about that. But I ask you once again, Mr President, that is the last time, and I will ask the Prime Minister about this later. What do you think of the cabinet saying that this concern has been postponed? The cabinet doesn't know when that care will be possible again. People can, if they want to do something, contact their insurer, according to the cabinet. That's not an answer, is it? Are you prepared with me to ensure that, in any way, the Cabinet ensures, if necessary with staff, that we provide extra care where it can, for that purpose, for the regular care of the people who need that care now, who are at home in pain, who have to undergo surgery because of cancer, when those operations cannot be carried out? These people, apart from the corona patients, should at least get a mark on them. It's not just about corona, it's about those people who just need their care, because they might have cancer now and live less long, maybe die because they don't get that care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u24	I think it is already the case that as many people as possible who really need regular care, because it is threatening, give that care. But the honest story remains that this can only be achieved if we can keep the number of infections as low as possible, which requires difficult measures. It is therefore a question of measures which, if he has had the opportunity to do so, Mr Wilders himself has tabled motions in order not to do so. As a Chamber, we will have to stand not only for the easy message, but also for the difficult message. Perhaps Mr Wilders should read the quote of Theodore Roosevelt himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr. Chairman. On Friday I visited the Máxima Medical Center in Veldhoven. There, as in other places in the care, there is a tremendous amount of hard work. The E.R. is working overtime, the special covid department is full and on the ICU are also patients of my age. It shows that the threat of the virus is still real, and even more so: we seem to be heading through the variants towards a new peak in March. It is an understandable reaction to use all the measures to reduce the levels of infection. But at the expense of what? At the expense of children's development, at the expense of our mental health or at the expense of many entrepreneurs? Those are the dilemmas we have to weigh here, because sometimes it seems as if the hard numbers of the dashboard overshadow these dilemmas. The impact of the measures on society should be more explicitly taken into account. How can the Cabinet do this? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, many people think along with us, such as many local initiatives in cities to support young people during the day. A report has also been published by the Youth Think tank Corona crisis, to which the youth-SER and many other youth organisations have contributed: And now... actions! This report is full of recommendations which are important for young people: from education to work and from finding a home to mental health. In particular, young people are asking us to deal more flexibly with delays in study, to think about compensation for tuition fees, to give more space to creative initiatives and to use a special youth telephone for young people who are no longer looking forward to it. We must take these kinds of advice to heart in order to reduce the pressure on young people. Gladly a response from the cabinet to the advice of the Young Think tank Corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. The closure of primary schools and childcare was a clear example of the great impact of corona on children and their parents. D66 is extremely happy that the cabinet now opts for the planned opening on 8 February. But teachers are right to say that it must also be safe. So I ask the Prime Minister, are we ready? Is it really safe from Monday? Are the rapid tests arranged, including for teachers without complaints? And is source and contact research in schools a priority? We also know, with the virtuousness of the virus, that education in the coming months will have to be digital and remote to a large extent. So why doesn't the Cabinet invest in School TV and online classes right now? Ask the best teachers in the country to make video lessons so that they can be used in all schools. Mr. Chairman. Opening primary schools and collecting orders from shops are steps towards a new look at the corona policy. Because of the mutations and the uncertainty in vaccination, it is a difficult but honest message that we will have to live with the virus for a long time to come. How do we do that wisely? By looking at what we can do, so that experts can advise us. If you take measure A and B into account when opening, for example, higher education, restaurants or theatres, this will have little effect on the infections, but you can give a little more air to society. That's sensible freedom. If there is even more possible in the short term, I ask the cabinet. For example, in the outdoors, because we know that the virus there is less contagious. A little more outdoor space would make this lockdown much more bearable for many people. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the vaccination. The fastest way to more freedom is to vaccinate. I understand that the Minister is dealing with disappointing deliveries, but there are also points in this letter which I think we should have dealt with earlier. The slow vaccination has consequences, because every vaccine counts, especially for the vulnerable group. It is therefore a good thing that GD doctors will be helped in the near future to really deploy every drop of vaccine. But if it is one of the goals of relief from the pressure on hospital care, how does the Minister look at the plea of ic-doctors to vaccinate the group of obese men, who are nevertheless over-represented on the ic's, so that the care staff, like all those nurses and doctors at the Máxima Medical Center, who showed me their daily work on Friday, are greatly relieved? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u28	Which, of course, would have been a huge help when it comes to the voluntary vaccination of people, and my question is whether Mr Jetten agrees with me: if we had just started not only to vaccinate an sich but also to vaccinate those people who are now in intensive care. These are the people between 60 and 75, often with comorbidity, the people who still have a disease. Those are the chronically ill. So it would be logical, especially since the measures taken by the cabinet are largely linked to the pressure on ic capacity, if we had started doing so. Of course, I also think that care workers and others should also be helped. I do not dispute this, but should we not have started much earlier with those elderly people, those chronically ill who lie there? Do you not agree with me that this is happening too slowly? Isn't that one of the ways to solve it faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u29	I agree with Mr Wilders that we have had too slow a start. We have discussed this in detail in the previous debate. We saw Europe getting started, getting steamed with vaccination. That was left behind in the Netherlands. I think we have all been surprised over the last few weeks about nursing homes in which a doctor came to vaccinate Mrs A and Mrs B and someone else a few days later the other residents in the hallway. That was illogical. Fortunately, this has now been dealt with, so that we can also vaccinate more easily and quickly and we are catching up with other European countries. I also consciously ask the Minister which groups you should give priority to in the coming weeks. Of course, it stands or falls with how much stock you have. The Health Council is very clear in the opinion: focus on vulnerable elderly people because of the excess mortality in that group. But I also hear the call from hospital care: in addition to the over-death rate among the vulnerable elderly, we also have to deal here with enormous pressure on the ic's because of certain risk groups; could you not link more pace to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u30	In fact, shouldn't you just give that priority right now? Of course you should also give it to the elderly and the nurses and the caregivers, all fine, but shouldn't you also focus on this? That's my one question. Maybe we can do that together. I understand that this so-called vaccination scheme, which I believe is called, is not coming now, but we will soon be getting it again. Look, if we can move the minister along with some colleagues to put extra effort into that, that's profit. A second point is the question of which vaccine should be used for this purpose. I believe that the cabinet is particularly committed to AstraZeneca for the elderly. Let a lot of studies show that this is not the most effective for the elderly, even the German RIVM has said that it should not be used for the elderly, whereas the Rolls-Royce under the vaccines, except Sputnik, is Pfizer. Pfizer would be very suitable for it. Could we not therefore ask the Minister not only to vaccinate that group more quickly, but also to use the most effective vaccine, especially for the elderly and those chronically ill? Then we do something twice that just helps to get the numbers down on the ic's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u31	I would very much like to say 'yes' to Mr Wilders' first question, to speed it up for this group as well. Only the crux of course is whether the Netherlands has enough stock to actually do more groups faster, and I don't see that picture yet. So we have to ask Mr Wilders one more question: how much more stock do we expect in the coming months so that we can increase that rate? And then I hope that the Minister would like to put that extra pace and that extra priority on it with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you, sir...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u33	Oh, yeah. Then there's the question of what vaccine. This morning I was looking at a card showing that many countries in Europe have now indicated that AstraZeneca cannot be used for older people over 65. In the Netherlands, I think we are still waiting for the latest advice from the Health Council. So we have to look at that, but if the Health Council in the Netherlands also says that AstraZeneca would rather not be used for 65-plussers, the vaccination card will have to be adjusted to some extent. As far as the Russian vaccine is concerned, I agree with the interruption debate that has just taken place. If it can help to protect our health, I say yes, but it must first be approved by the European Medicines Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you. Before I give Mr Klaver the floor, I report that the Minister for Medical Care has signed off on this week. Unfortunately, she is not ill, but she hopes to get back to work next week. I should have said that at the beginning, but I forgot. We wish her well, of course. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u35	That'll do her good. Mr. Chairman. The briefing this morning was extremely worrying again. If you look closely at the figures, well, you don't even have to look well, then you see that we're stuck with a bit of bad luck until June and that there are only scenarios that look like it's escalating. And you can't. But what is not possible is the idea that we would keep education closed until June. I am very pleased with the step that has been taken in the field of primary education, but we also need to discuss with each other what we are doing with secondary education, with MBO, with HBO and with universities. Because it's super important to protect the Netherlands and our most vulnerable, so the people who probably won't survive if they get it, from the virus. That's not gonna happen. But after ten months of crisis, many more vulnerable people have joined. I'm thinking about all those kids who are having a hard time right now. I am not just talking about young people who have to go to the ggz, for whom there is no place now, and young people who no longer like life. I am also talking about young people who lose their rhythms and who are no longer able to get into school or study. Those choices are ahead of us now. I would like to say that we must do everything we can for the next few weeks and months to get education back open, even if that means we have to go through some nasty measures that we now have or if we have to take other strict measures to keep the virus under control. It's not like we can choose to relax and completely release the virus. I really want to make an appeal to the Chamber: please, we have to go forward with education in a responsible manner. We should ask the cabinet to have the OMT talk with education to see how we can open further education and further education as much as possible after the crocus holiday. Do you have to do it all at once? Is that going to split up? What can we do? My question is: please, speed this up, because we cannot leave young people at home until June. In my opinion, we have made too much of a project for children and young people in recent years. In grade 8 you have your test and it is all about further education. With binding study advice and shortening study hours, much more pressure has been put on young people anyway. The messages I get from students just hurt me. Students say that they really do their utmost to complete their studies as much as possible and that they see what their educational institution is trying to do and what lessons are being taught online, but also that they cannot do it. I think it's important to let all those young people know that it's not their fault that it's not happening right now. As a politician, I think we should give them the space to walk out. That is why I would like to ask the cabinet to give young people who are studying now the opportunity to walk a year. I am not asking for three months' compensation or to monetaryize it: you have missed so many lessons, so that is about €500. That's not the point. Make sure that people who are now studying at MBO, HBO or university when they run out can do that for a year free of tuition fees. The value of this is that it removes pressure from young people. Then they know that they don't have to catch up on all the delays they're catching up with right now. I think that's an important step we can take. Mr President, then the vaccination. These are interesting debates, including between Mr Wilders and Mr Jetten, about which groups we will be the first to do. The big problem is that we don't have enough vaccines now. With all the arguments I hear for every group that comes forward to be vaccinated, I think: that's a brilliant idea; that's what we're going to do. But then the consequence is that we are not going to do 80-plussers, 90-plussers and not the people in care. That is, of course, the very big dilemma that lies ahead. What I think is the value of this debate and what I hope we are capable of is that we are open to each other. If the cabinet were to say "okay, we might do a little less with the 80-plussers," then I can already imagine the reaction of some here, namely that the deaths of these people are the direct responsibility of this cabinet and, above all, of this minister. This calls for a very mature debate on what is a priority and what we will and will not do. I would like to say that I am prepared to hold that debate. For the time being, we do not have enough vaccines, and we will have to choose who is and who is not, and how we are going to do it. For that, a super tight logistics operation is important. I have always said that I will never attack this minister on too few deliveries, because he is not about that. We have to wait until the pharmaceuticals arrive and those vaccines come to the Netherlands. I do think that this cabinet is appealing to the whole organisation: enough people who can put inoculations, enough pricks that are there and have thought about scenarios to come. I'm really worried about that. The criticism of this minister is serious, including my own. But honesty also commands that the task on this minister's plate is so great that no person could do so. My group has made regular proposals for the appointment of a government commissioner. That is an attempt to provide help, to come up with solutions, not only to criticize what goes wrong, but to ensure that we support it. Finally, I would like to say that asking for help is not a sign of weakness, but a sign of strength. I hope that we can decide that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you have heard Van Dissel's briefing this morning and look at the figures, you can see that it just doesn't look very good. Then we're on the eve of what's called "the third wave." For no one, that's a fine image. For everyone, that is a fearful picture, but for our caregivers perhaps the most. 'Cause they're gonna have to be there in a minute. They were there almost the whole last year that we've been in this crisis. But they will have to be there again. And they're gonna stand there. But what I really cannot understand is that this cabinet is going to be able to send a letter to the Chamber in which it says that it is not going to implement the proposal that has been adopted here, that is to say, to increase wages in health care structurally. It can't be. We will not accept that either. There is a majority here in the Lower House that has decided to do so. That wasn't a small majority. In fact, it was only the party of the prime minister, the VVD, and the party of the minister of care, the CDA, that were still opposed to increasing healthcare salaries. For the rest, the entire House of Representatives is for that. The cabinet should just do that. I want to hear from the Cabinet today how it's gonna do that. The vaccination has already been mentioned a few times. The Netherlands is at the bottom of the lists in Europe when it comes to vaccination. That's not good. That is especially not good because vaccination is our hope. It is our hope that society will be able to open up a little. It is our hope that not only the children in primary school, but also the high school students and the MBO will go back to school. It is the hope of so many entrepreneurs that they will be able to reopen their business. It is the hope of so many sports clubs that they will be able to do something again. The fact that it is precisely with vaccination that things are going so badly, indeed not only with the fetching, but also with the provision of those vaccines, with the logistics and implementation, is very bad. The SP would like to know from the Prime Minister how he views it. For it is in the media, but also in this Chamber, often about the functioning of the minister of care. There is rightly criticism of this. But my question to the Prime Minister is that vaccination is now basically the most important thing we all have to take care of. So I can expect the Prime Minister to interfere with that. I am also very curious to see what the Prime Minister thinks of the way things are going. Mr. Chairman. We must, of course, ensure that there are many more vaccines, so that we have that discussion that we have just had about which group must first... Well, the best solution is of course as many vaccines as possible. It's been going on for a while, too. We would like to know from the Cabinet what it is prepared to do on this point and what it can still do, for example when it comes to the so-called pool in which knowledge is shared, in which there is cooperation to develop and produce as many vaccines as possible. Do we have an idea of which production sites there are still in the Netherlands or in other places in Europe where they can be produced? Are they gonna be deployed? Is that gonna work? Is there any way to put more pressure on those pharmaceuticals that they need to share that knowledge and that information? That way we can start producing in more places. That can help us all to get out of this crisis as quickly as possible. Mr. Chairman. Education. I think everyone appreciates the fact that primary schools are opening up again for our children, but we also understand the concerns of schools and teachers. 'Cause it has to be safe, of course. That has been said many times here. As far as the SP fraction is concerned, it has recently looked too much like it was: whether the schools are closed, or the schools are open. What exactly has been done recently to investigate what possibilities there are for the schools to be opened up safely? We've made proposals for that before. Is half the classes considered, isn't it? Is there any thought of screens and mouth caps? Can vulnerable teachers do things online from home and is this taken care of differently? How can we do that best? Mr. Chairman. In this crisis there is a lot of demand from everyone, from society as a whole, but I think we all see how difficult our youth, our children, young people are at the moment. We are curious to see what the cabinet can do for that. For example, we are thinking of youth workers. Can we invest extra in this, to take young people into the neighbourhood by hand and help a little further? We also think of the waiting lists in the ggz. We have to solve it now. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet often says: only together do we get corona underneath. So our call is: let's really do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u38	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. It seemed for a moment that we could only look forward to something for next week: the schools open again, the childcare open, another book pick up at the bookstore nearby. It was even suggested that the OMT should once again advise on the curfew, which had just been set; that sounded a promise in it. It seemed like we were finally getting some air. Mr. Chairman. That feeling has evaporated, at least with me, and I think with a lot of people. It's made way for doubts. College Heerma already talked about that. The opinions of the OMT were not reassuring. The spread of the British variant and its great infectiousness give cause for concern. There are quite a lot of schools that have said that they want to open very much but not to know how, because they do not think it can be safe yet. The number of people in the hospital is also falling too slowly and the pressure on ordinary care is persistently high. Mr. Chairman. This raises the question of the risk the cabinet is taking with these announced relaxations. On the one hand, the message, not a week and a half after that curfew was set, is that there could be more, while at the same time, even this morning in the technical briefing, we hear about a third wave that seems inevitable, with possibly another prolonged lockdown, with all the consequences for the economy and our health. Mr. Chairman. That's bad enough, but that whining also makes people wonder: where are we going and what am I supposed to stick to now? That's not good for the support. Mr. Chairman. Then about the vaccination. We have always heard why the Netherlands was so slow to vaccinate that we started so late because we were going to do it carefully. We came home from a cold carnival. Look at the data leaks. Look at the chaotic implementation of vaccinations in nursing homes, where one half of the people have been vaccinated and the other half have not. Look at the magic with the numbers. Last night I saw that, in a country like the Netherlands, people aged 85 had to wait 40 minutes at a vaccination site at Schiphol Airport and also in Den Bosch, some of them outside in the rain! That's just really unacceptable, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. Nor would we start symbolically, said the Minister, as other countries did. We were really gonna do it. Meanwhile, we're still dangling at the bottom. That really isn't because of the hard workers at the G.D.D., who are doing what they can. We are not getting enough vaccines, but there are also a lot of them in the freezer. I am very concerned about that, and colleagues do, because the real, only, well-functioning exit strategy is vaccinate. It makes a huge difference in the lives of everyone, of older people who, when they are vaccinated, can finally get a bit among the people, of caregivers, who feel safer to do their job, and of all of us, because it gives us the prospect of better times. Mr. Chairman. Because we're all so worried, we have to ask these questions here too, also because it fits in a pattern. Whether it concerns testing capacity, stocks of personal protective equipment, source and contact research: each time it would work out and each time it did not work out, it went very slowly or it was not adequate enough. Mr. Chairman. We're bothered by this unfortunate crisis response. It's got big consequences. It undermines the basis of support. It's gonna hurt our confidence. That is why I want to hear from the Prime Minister today: what is he going to do in concrete terms to get this right? Mr. Chairman. It's been said before, we're all worried about how we're all doing. I'm mostly worried about young people. It is very good that the cabinet is helping companies. That is also absolutely necessary. I get a lot of messages from hairdressers and cafe owners who are having a really hard time. It is right that they are asking for support, and rightly so that the cabinet is helping entrepreneurs, but we must also fight loneliness and try to catch up on learning deficits. We also hear of other problems in young people. That is why I specifically ask the cabinet to come up with a delta plan, a support package for young people. Aldermen all over the country are asking for that, too. The kids are having a really hard time. As far as I am concerned, this package should include at least an additional academic and academic year at no extra cost to all young people who need it and support in finding work and homework guidance. Help them with the psychological consequences of this crisis, because their lives are incredibly upside down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u40	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you, Madam President. The situation is worrying. Several colleagues have already referred to it. I also hold my heart for chronically ill people who are waiting for a vaccine, for a district nurse who hopes for little loss of colleagues, of staff or for a person with serious mental illness whose life is deteriorating. The lockdown is extended until March 2. I understand. At the same time, the good news is that schools are opening up. I have been looking at these weather maps and it would be extremely ironic if we were to snow in next week or if there were ice-free or otherwise the weather conditions would be such that the schools would still have problems. So let's hope they really open up and that the kids really get freedom again. The VWS Minister rightly referred to three types of crises that we actually have. That is a health crisis, but also an economic crisis and a mental crisis. We're supposed to hit all three of them at once. But in doing so, the division of roles becomes more diffuse. The cabinet is very keen to see the schools reopen. The OMT looks at the figures and says: well, that's very vulnerable, that's extremely worrying. And if you put everything together, you would actually expect that there would be a conclusion in that letter that it is too risky, but on the basis of various social considerations, there is still room for staff to relax or at least room for school opening, which the cabinet then accepts in gratitude. In other words: here you can see that people sit in each other's seats. As far as I'm concerned, that's better. The OMT really needs to look primarily at medical data, medical facts and virological realities. The cabinet must be given broad advice, including on mental health and the economic situation of the country, and then make very transparent choices and account for them. That is at the heart of the political-administrative task of politics and very specific of the cabinet. The cabinet talks about a cross-cutting test that does it when new measures are taken. That is really very good, but my question is how this test is going to be on the table, socially but certainly politically, to talk about it in a broad sense. Because we are indeed talking about the broad consultation and the broad balance of interests that we need. That very wide key, that transverse key is also needed for the exit strategy. However, if you look at that exit strategy or scale it down, there is actually only one strategy chosen, one route to scale it down. It is directed at, for example, ic admissions and hospitalisations. Well, we've seen this summer that sending them on ICU and hospital admissions is pretty risky. We were, in retrospect, too late. We did not really take firm measures until October, when in the summer we already had the indication with other indicators that things were not going well. In other words: do we not need more strategies, do we not need more scenarios? Shouldn't we send more when we think about that exit? Wouldn't it be good to develop those scenarios and put them on the table? Then you look at the medical data, but also at the well-being and the economic situation. Then you can develop multiple scenarios and we come to our core task: weighing interests. Madam President. What is also needed is a recovery plan or a recovery plan. recovery plans. We do have these three crises. Then we should look at health care, at mental health, at young people, Mr Ploumen just called them economics, at businesses, at education. Then we need broad expertise to start thinking about recovery plans where we still have to deal with the current crisis. With the expertise of everyone who can think along and who can say sensible things about it, we need to make plans, so that we can slowly but surely catch up with ordinary life. I am considering a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u42	Mr Segers shares the concerns I have about how young people are doing. I have also made a few concrete proposals, for example: make sure that all young people who are in school or studying can study for a year longer without additional costs. Would Mr Segers also like to support such a concrete proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u43	That was in the letter from the chairman of the board of directors of the Christian College of Ede, which I happened to read. It was a letter to the Prime Minister, stating exactly this proposal. We can now pull one stone out on an ad hoc basis, but I would like a recovery plan for young people. Young people under 30 now give their quality of life a 6.4. That's never been so low. So there's a lot of pain and pressure there. I would very much like a recovery plan. This could be part of it, but let us make a broader assessment, also on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u44	Of course there must be a broad package. That's what I asked for. It must contain the elements that Mr Segers also points out. Aldermen in the country are asking for this as well. At the same time, I would also like to prevent us from getting bogged down in an endless palaver about what needs to be done in that package, about investing in three ministries, which makes no one really responsible. I think we should also make very concrete proposals. Hence my question to Mr Segers. I'm gonna repeat it one more time, and I've heard his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u45	I think there is something between interrupting for an extra year and endless palaver and a talking circuit that none of us are waiting for. I would like to see concrete recovery plans, concrete plans for young people, also for young people who are now in danger of getting into trouble, for young people who are now missing out on part of their student time, their study time, who find that extremely painful, who have fallen behind and who have perhaps made more debts. That should be part of such a recovery plan. Mrs Ploumen's plan could be one of the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u47	Madam President. Then there's the vaccination strategy. I understand the Minister's feeling rushed by the Chamber and by society, but we should not take irresponsible risks. There are now choices that are quite sharp, especially when it comes to stock management and when it comes to the period between the first and the second prick. There are two ways of sailing sharply on the wind. How responsible is that? That's an open question. What's the risk if we're in a bad way? Shouldn't you take a little less risk on one of two? I would add that, strictly speaking, we are following the pace of the vaccination strategy that was in the Chamber in January. We've just talked about that openly. That is what I am saying to ourselves and to everyone who is very excited about the state of affairs very quickly. Madam President. Finally, the concern. Neighborhood nursing fears code black. Disability care fears too late vaccination. That's very worrying. I assume the Minister knows these concerns, but in what way does he give these people room and can he reassure them? The neighborhood nurse says that if this code threatens to be black, if it becomes so urgent, we cannot follow all the protocols; how much space and support do we get to work as professionals? Finally, Madam President. When it comes to the global vaccination strategy, I would like to thank the cabinet for what ministers have written about it. They're gonna talk to initiators about a relief operation. I'm hoping for a quick result. I would also like to encourage you to listen carefully to the calls for a broader sharing of knowledge, patents, so that a vaccine can also be produced in other parts of the world, so that even where people have to wait so long can be vaccinated faster than it seems now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you, Mr Segers. Mr Wilders has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u49	Yes, I had a question for my colleague Segers. Mr Segers did not vote for my motion that long ago. It was thanks to him that that motion reached a majority. It says that vaccination must not only be compulsive, but also not an urge. I think we still have to get the Minister's opinion on the Health Council, but I already read in the news that, under certain circumstances, a vaccination certificate may still be requested. Do you agree with me that this is not possible for many groups at all, and that if it is possible, it is totally unnecessary for many groups? Do you think this is an urge after all? The Chamber has said: we do not really want compulsion and urge. Once again, I do not know the Minister's position, but the Health Council says that it should be possible in certain situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u50	If it's proof like my kids got that when they were vaccinated against, I know a lot of what kind of childhood diseases, that seems pretty innocent to me. My concerns and concerns of Mr Wilders were where there would be urge and where there is unequal treatment between people who say they find it too risky and who do not let themselves be vaccinated and people who do. First of all, I think it is very stupid to talk about coercion or to fantasize about it, because it works counterproductively. People who already have concerns, they just scare you away. That doesn't lead to a higher vaccination rate. So I think that's just stupid. I also find it very problematic in principle. Unlike tests, this is highly invasive. This is about your body and your physical integrity. To make a distinction between one and the other, I find it extremely risky. That is why I voted in favour of Mr Wilders' motion. I'll just have to wait and see. I also asked for an ethical framework for each motion at the time. In private situations, of course, a football club can say that you can only enter if you have been vaccinated, to name but a few. Is that okay? Can we do that? What happens in private space and what happens in public space? I do not want to make that distinction and I would like to respect the decision of people whether or not to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u51	That is what Mr Segers is right to say. That is, of course, what this is about. It's not just about the evidence. At all, "vaccination certificate" is a terrible word. That reminds me of the most horrible things. It is, of course, the consequence of this. Can't you go into the House of Commons or the Albert Heijn if you don't have that kind of evidence? If we do that, it's an urge. Then you say to people, if you don't get vaccinated, you won't get into that store or that building. Again, I am not responsible for vaccinating. On the contrary, I think it might be a solution to get out of the problem. But I also respect people who choose not to. The consequence should not be that, if you are not vaccinated, you cannot enter a store or building. If we agreed, we could try to stop the cabinet from doing so. That is the question to Mr Segers. You're still a member of the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u52	I think the coalition fell. I'm now slightly in an identity crisis about exactly what I am. I think we're very close. I believe that there is an unjustified distinction there. Mr Wilders talks about shops, the Lower House or public space. No, you should never make that distinction there. I just can't rule out that there are dilemmas in the private sector, where the government has less control and others have more. That is why I asked for that ethical framework. I cannot rule out the possibility that we will face dilemmas. When it comes to the start of the discussion, I think we are very close together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u53	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals is also pleased that primary education and childcare will be reopened next week. Like others, we also have concerns about how safe that can be. How do we guarantee that safety? You're still hearing that a lot of teachers and parents are very worried about that. Once again, the little preparation time is one of the concerns. Some schools have even announced that they will not open up at all next week. I agree with the questions already asked by D66. How are we going to ensure that schools are able to open up safely next week? The lockdown measures do indeed have great consequences for our mental and physical well-being. Combating corona is a major issue, but it is not the only issue. When introducing curfew, my colleague Ouwehand insisted on a broad social consideration: not only let the OMT advise on the medical aspects, but also involve the behavioral experts, psychologists and others in the social consequences of such a decision. It is therefore very nice to read in the letter to the Chamber this week that the cabinet will now also carry out this broad social test. Now I hear the Cabinet is considering extending the curfew. Can it then be expected that this broad social test will still be done, for example this weekend, before we decide on the extension of curfew next week? I'm curious to hear the government's response. Then move on to those disturbing corona mutations. The South African and Brazilian variants have now also reached the Netherlands via travellers. Where is the watertight strategy to eliminate South African and Brazilian mutations, and possibly other mutations, and prevent new imports? The flight ban we have here is easy to circumvent by switching and the mandatory quarantine is still not there. And then there is the situation in Portugal, which is not subject to a flight ban in the Netherlands, but where it is getting more intense every day and where close connections with Brazil exist. Germany already closed the borders with Portugal. Is there going to be a flight ban with Portugal as far as this cabinet is concerned? So what's the deal with that? People really do not understand that the cabinet does not intervene more firmly on this point. Our neighbour Belgium did, however, declare a full ban on entry for non-necessary travel last week. Does the cabinet also consider a ban on entry as in Belgium? Has there been any contact with our Belgian colleagues? How do we even do that? We have close contacts with Belgium. How do they do it? Can't we see if that's for us, too? Then there's the new road map, the exit strategy. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, it offers too little perspective in the long term. We're not just coming out of the crisis with lockdowns, vaccinate and better medical treatments. This week we saw doctors again in different newspapers warn of the danger of overweight and diabetes in a corona infection. These avoidable underlying conditions significantly reduce the survival rate of patients on the ic. Last week, the Chamber voted in favour of our motion to give the State Secretary of Health every opportunity to develop effective prevention policies and to improve basic health in the Netherlands. That is a real breakthrough, because a majority in this Chamber really wants to get ahead of prevention. Marcia Luyten wrote yesterday in De Volkskrant: never before were the social costs of overweight so high. The consequences of what we eat force food politics. Protecting and promoting our basic health should also be part of that roadmap from the crisis. I wonder if the cabinet will add this. We hope so, of course. A broader protection of public health also means that we must stop protecting agricultural interests that threaten public health. Let me give a concrete example of this right away. Corona patients on ic may experience dangerous resistant fungi. The Minister for Medical Care has sent a letter on this subject, following some pressure on our part, for which we are grateful. Minister Van Ark shares our concerns. As far as we are concerned, this is only logical, given that 80% of the patients affected by a resistant variant of this fungus are dying. But the letter does not show what the cabinet's plan is to do about it. How do we get that farm poison, which causes the resistance, then off the market? I hope that, despite the fact that Minister Van Ark is not here, we can move forward on this subject. I wonder how the cabinet will do that. As far as we are concerned, this poison must be removed from the market as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u55	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some pressure is removed from the boiler by carefully opening primary schools. The SGP is also pleased with the possibility for shopkeepers to be able to collect orders. Then there's a little air for shopkeepers. The motion tabled by my colleague Mr Stoffer, who called for it, was adopted on Tuesday afternoon and already carried out in the evening, so at least he was very satisfied. Mr. Chairman. It still appears that there is a great deal of need in many areas and that the pressure on care also remains high. A new wave of contamination is expected, as we were also part of the technical briefing this morning. A further increase in the number of hospitalisations is expected. My question is also: how does the cabinet prepare for this? Earlier, I filed a motion with the VVD to ask for scaling up hospital care and care for corona patients outside those hospitals. What exactly happened to make that happen? We heard that many volunteers who offered to work temporarily in hospital care were found unfit. But I read yesterday that a military and a tropic doctor said: if the best are not available, the best are available. Couldn't you see from that perspective if, when we see it coming in a few months or weeks, you couldn't use the time better to get even more scaling up, also to offer the regular care space? Mr. Chairman. The perspective remains uncertain. That is not for nothing natural, because we are now talking about the concerns about variants, which we did not know about six months ago. But if the virus continues to come up with variants, shouldn't the virus control also have more variants? The current approach remains mainly to limit contacts when infections increase. That is very understandable, but it is simply not endless to persevere. Because we know that even the concerns and negative side effects of these measures are becoming more and more acute after a long period of time. Should the scenario "how to live with the long-term presence of the virus" not also be seen fairly, if, for example, vaccinations would not work against certain variants? And is it not wise to seek serious advice from a broader group about the dilemmas that arise? I'd like to hear the government's reaction to that. It's a bit about that longer-term story, if it's that the story of "just the two of us; we're almost there" turns out to be difficult to keep up in the end. Mr. Chairman. I would like to add one more comment on recent decisions. I understand all the dilemmas, and the cabinet would like to base itself on scientific advice. But with Mr Segers I also had the impression that the clear separation of the virological interpretation by the OMT and the political weighting by the cabinet are starting to get mixed up. It seems then that they are asked "OMT, don't you think that schools could be opened again responsibly?" And "OMT, wouldn't it be a good idea to hold out the curfew?" It is formulated differently, but the feeling creeps me out that the cabinet wants to be able to say "we follow the OMT advice," but that it is already precooked in a certain way. Of course, those Cathouse sessions have a role to play in that. We have the impression that these weekly Sunday Catshuis sessions not only undermine the weekly rest day, but also the separation between politics and science. Mr. Chairman. Then the vaccinations. However, I would like to comment on the current point that Mr Wilders also made. I was also shocked by the message: ask for vaccination certificate. That then was a very brief summary of the opinion of the Health Council. It also applies to shops, restaurants and other institutions. When you look at the report, there are a lot more nuances in it and a lot of requirements have to be met if they are to be. But of course it does worry you very much, if that is its appearance. My group has always argued: no compulsion and urge in this area. So I would like to hear whether the cabinet can quickly respond to that advice from the Health Council, and perhaps also include the question that, as I understood, came from the German Ethics Council, about privileges in the context of vaccinations. I would like to hear a reaction from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the vaccination strategy, I have a question about the concerns of neighbourhood nurses. By taking their turn much later than they did before, they would be at greater risk of infecting vulnerable elderly people. Is there an eye for that? When will this become clear? Finally, I call it mental well-being. In young people, but also in the elderly, there is loneliness, stress and depression. We've talked about that before. It has also been raised again today by colleagues. I have two questions about that. Almost 60 million have been made available for local initiatives by Secretary of State Blokhuis. Can national actions also be supported, for example through the existing platform #not only? Mr President, my final question. I understand that now and then there is going to be cuts in the budgets of mental health care, because they just had a drop in the number of people who were present there. It would be very unfortunate if this were to lead to dismissal. You're gonna need these people very much later. Will the cabinet, in consultation with the health insurance companies, take a closer look at this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u57	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr. Chairman. We can't reverse the global outbreak of the corona virus, but the impact it has on society depends on the policies pursued. Unfortunately, this policy is causing us to have a triple crisis. In addition to a public health crisis, we have a social crisis and an economic crisis. Mr. Chairman. As long as the cabinet and the OMT are staring blindly at signal values, as long as the cabinet tries to appease the social crisis with anointing words like "it's difficult," "it's difficult" and "it's not too long" and as long as the government forgets the whole of the sectors with the support measures, such as entrepreneurs who only started in January/February last year, and leave entire sectors in the cold, such as hairdressers, car driving schools, neighbourhood centres and so on, the social crisis and the economic crisis are only getting worse and worse. If we tied a reproduction number to the mental state of people, chronically ill who miss out on their regular care and the hard economic damage, the current policy would have been overturned long ago. Mr. Chairman. Today the Health Council came up with a far-reaching opinion, after the Minister of Health had asked for the introduction of a so-called "corona passport." The conclusion is that employers, health care institutions, schools and restaurants may require a vaccination certificate. This is subject to strict conditions. No vaccine may not mean access to education or a right for everyone to have access to work or care. Since I see the Minister of Health shaking no, I would really ask him to stick to the ruling made by the Chamber by a motion from Azarkan, which says that he is against any form of vaccination obligation. Another motion calls for access from public facilities not to be linked to having a vaccine. And yet I get the feeling that, just as Mr Van der Staaij pointed out, the Minister has asked the Health Council to gather arguments to initiate legislation in order to achieve such a corona passport. So I say again to the Minister: respect the ruling of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to last Tuesday's press conference. The Prime Minister said that the effects of curfew are not yet visible or known. So we just lock up the Netherlands in the evening, when we don't know why we do that. Just before that curfew was introduced, the Chamber asked what its effect would be. The answer was: a decrease of 8% to 12%. Where is the fall from 8% to 12%? That's why you need to stop curfewing. Mr. Chairman. DENK agrees that primary education can be opened, but this must be done in a safe manner. There are great concerns with parents and teachers about whether this can be done at all. There are schools in the country that now announce that the doors remain closed. The concerns of parents, teachers and schools are also more than justified. Mr. Chairman. I've taken the test. I once looked on the RIVM website to see if there is anything from a schematic or protocol on the safe continuation of education. All I found was a general hygiene directive for schools from 2016. It says, for example, that you have to use a microfibre cloth and wash your hands. However, in the United States, for example, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have drawn up whole guidelines for primary schools. This is a beautiful piece with ready-to-use recommendations, for example on how to set up rooms, how to set up tables, when to isolate a class, what tests to use or not to use and when to test. That's just a crisp, bite-ready instruction that any school can take over. We don't have to reinvent the wheel. I would really like to ask the Minister to work on this quickly, so as to remove the concerns of schools, parents and teachers. Mr. Chairman. There's one thing this cabinet should really be ashamed of. That's the vaccination policy. It is a fact that we are at the bottom of the list of Europe. But there is good news: we are no longer one-after-last, just before Bulgaria. We caught up with Latvia. We even have trouble counting the number of shots. How difficult can that be, I ask the Minister. We are also disturbed by the fact that the Minister always blames others for the slow vaccination policy. During the press conference, the Minister mentioned that the delay was due to the delivery. I wonder: how can this be done if the procurement and delivery of vaccines is centrally regulated by the European Union? How can countries like Romania, Poland and Lithuania have already vaccinated almost 4% of their population? Mr President, concluding. We call on the government now to come up with an exit strategy, to give our people more perspective. There is as much as possible. There's no other way, and there's no other way. Let's give the Netherlands some air. Let us make the Netherlands fairer and fairer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr. Chairman. The vaccination strategy is so unclear for everyone. There's no rope to tie to it. The strategy is sweeping all over the place. Of course, I do not charge the Minister that there are supply problems. But can or can't the district nurse be vaccinated? There are couples, one half of whom is vaccinated and the other half isn't. Why can't a 85-year-old man and his 79-year-old wife be vaccinated simultaneously? There were care institutions that were not vaccinated at once, but in different rounds. Fortunately, that is now repaired. People don't understand, and neither do we. There are people at the Brabanthallen in Alkmaar for vaccinations in line and in the cold. Corona isn't gonna kill you, it's gonna kill you. It's gonna kill you. Mr. Chairman. Older people often have to travel far for a shot. Older people want to be on time and are often too early. We would like to ask whether it is possible to organise tents with heaters at the vaccination sites. It's gonna freeze next week. We can't keep those old people in line for hours. There seems to be a lack of direction on the vaccination strategy. Who the hell is directing the G.D.D.s? That is not clear either. It is clear that the Minister simply has a lot, and we believe too much, on his plate. Something has to happen, because we can't keep muddying like this. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, an operational team will be set up to coordinate the vaccination strategy nationally. Put on someone who is not political, for example Herman van der Weide, former Chief Inspector at the Health Inspectorate, who led the vaccination strategy for the Mexican flu very well. Then use Defense for logistics, because they're good at that. My next question is not addressed to the Minister, but to the Prime Minister. Would he want to convince the minister to just accept help? The cabinet wants to open schools now. 50PLUS also likes to see that happen, but like others we also see the risks. Now it looks like the number of infections is falling, but that's only very relative. Many fewer people are being tested. That's understandable, too, if you don't want your personal data to be sold to criminals. There's confidence to be restored. I'm gonna skip a little bit, Mr. Chairman. I see the time running. If the primary schools open again, there's a greater risk. What risk does this cabinet intend to take? How many more dead are they buying? The teachers also wonder if it is wise. A number of schools even refuse to open up. We also sympathize with the problems of children and parents, but wouldn't it have been wiser to wait until after the spring break? If you scale down measures now, it will only be more difficult to reset them when necessary. Then you get a yo-yo effect, and that's not good for the support. If the schools are to be reopened, then there must be more testing. Quick tests are especially important then. There is also a lot going on with that, thanks to Follow the Money. In November, the department bought millions of tests, by the way, without a tender, which should have been done, including Abbott, Roche and Becton Dickinson. The Abbott test has a sensitivity of 72.6%, while the required percentage is 80%. Afterwards, the door closed to new manufacturers, while development has not stopped and much better tests have been developed. RIVM points to the Ministry and the Ministry points to the RIVM. Who is actually responsible for purchasing these tests? The breath test is already being used. Why isn't it being deployed on a large scale? How's the buy-in of quick tests going? Are the better, more sensitive tests being used now? Because testing and quick testing is also a way out. Finally, we can ask for pregnant attention again for people to go to the doctor with complaints. 4,000 fewer diagnoses have been made for cancer. That means death for those who are late for that diagnosis. Would you like to include that explicitly in the communication? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u61	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has one of the hardest lockdowns in the world, but scores incredibly bad. Last week, the Lowy Institute came up with its Covid Performance Index. Based on six indicators, the Netherlands stands at 75, between Turkey and Russia. This index does not even take into account the Dutch vaccination chain. The Netherlands is dangling at the bottom between Saudi Arabia and Brazil. Vaccinating goes very slowly and smart ideas are not listened to. If the majority of patients on ic are overweight men over 60 years of age, why don't we vaccinate this particular group as soon as possible? This would reduce the pressure on the ic's by 6% according to Peter van der Voort, head intensive care of the UMC Groningen. Corona policy is characterised by fear, blunder, grudging and completely ignoring possible solutions. Ventilation, prevention policy and medicines such as hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin work elsewhere, but apparently not here. Four intensiveists recently argued that the corona measures do not outweigh the health gains that hospitals book. The price paid for solidarity with the vulnerable in our society has become far too high. The lockdown, which shuts down schools, shops, restaurants and basically our entire lives, is demonstrably ineffective and disproportionate, and the damage is enormous. For months, therefore, the Democracy Forum has been advocating proportionality, the scaling up of ic capacity, the specific protection of vulnerable people and the release of the rest of society. Schools open, shops open, catering open. Back to our normal lives, without lockdown and without that absurd curfew. When will the cabinet consider the FvD scenario? How great must the collateral damage be before the cabinet realizes that it's all so damaging? Corona seemed to be a dangerous virus in March 2020, but it is now an existential crisis in which a greedy government in a machiavellian way restricts our freedoms and ruins our society, with an unelected OMT in which virologists make the most of it. SMEs are being destroyed by the corona measures. Although the aid packages are decent, they are far from covering the damage suffered. Many affected entrepreneurs do not receive support at all, because they have a wrong SBI code, have just started, have a wrong reference period or are so successful that they have more than 250 employees. A fine on success. Many entrepreneurs will not survive this cabinet. I predict a bankruptcy wave in May, if the holiday money has to be paid. The curfew and the lockdown remain in effect while we know it doesn't work. The death blow for SMEs and mental hell for all of us. Four hours between ordering and picking up to stop fun-shopping. How far does this administrative patronage go and can the Minister indicate what profit this is going to make on the R-value? The damage for entrepreneurs is unbearable and on 17 March we will see what the entrepreneurs in the Netherlands think of this cabinet. But there is another group that is incredibly hard hit by the corona measures and those are the young people. The psychological need of many young people is great, and the closing down of schools means that a huge number of pupils are lagging behind in learning. Secondary schools remain closed for the time being and pupils may receive a diploma, but have missed two crucial school years in puberty. Online education has become the inferior norm, social contacts are forbidden fruits and young people have been condemned to solitude by curfew and the ban on visits. Students are not only slowing down their studies, but are no longer able to develop socially in a crucial phase of their lives. The number of suicides among young people is increasing and so is the number of reports of child abuse. A report by Leiden University describes that 40,000 children were abused during the first lockdown. 40,000. And the number of young people with eating disorders has also increased by one third, according to Annemarie van Bellegem, pediatrician at the Amsterdam UMC. For corona, the schools don't have to close. Children don't notice corona and the chance of dying of corona is almost equal to zero. Then why does the cabinet choose to let young people be the child of the account and fall into a deep depression? The signals from the field of pediatricians, psychologists, teachers and teachers are extremely alarming. What does the Cabinet do with these signals? Moreover, how do you justify a regime of intensive testing and collective quarantine in children? Is it reasonable to demand disproportionate solidarity from young people to protect a very small group of older people? Mr. Chairman. History will judge whether it was worth damaging our children for fear of a virus with an IFR of 0.23%. For people under 70, the IFR is even 0.05%. Fear is a very bad counselor, so let's return proportionality to this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u63	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u64	Madam President. Protect the most vulnerable and restore the economy as much as possible. Let that be the directive that determines policy. Let the catering industry that can work coronaproof open and let SMEs open if it works coronaproof. We have already asked so much of our society, and this weekend we were surprised by a measure that further undermines our constitutional freedom: the forced inclusion of people because they are probably infected with corona and do not want to cooperate. It was allowed, but now five beds are reserved in Groningen, with surveillance. The cabinet is now turning the buttons in a very detailed manner. Again, in my view, this is a disproportionate measure, just like the curfew. The suffering and damage caused by it are disproportionate. If we look at the measure that does have an effect, we are still dividing the scarcity here in the Netherlands after a year of corona. At the beginning of the crisis it was the scarcity of personal protective equipment, before which the protection for caregivers in nursing homes and home care was not available, and now we are again dividing up the scarcity of vaccination. Again, what about vitamin D, the ancient proven method of building resistance? I'd like to see the state of play. What are the results of the corona app? Are they bad or bad? Can the Minister go into that in detail? Madam President. Then there is the election recess of the House of Representatives, which will enter next week and continue until 22 March. In my view, Parliament cannot afford to go on recess for so long. Although campaigning is an important part of our vibrant democratic tradition, it is not at present possible to explain why we are interrupting parliamentary work for so long. I propose to delete the electoral recess or simply to meet on Tuesdays and/or Wednesdays in the period from 12 February to 22 March. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u65	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thank you, Mr President. We sail in the thick fog on the eve of the third wave. Everything fails in this corona crisis. I have little speaking time, and I do not want to waste my speaking time just to mention it all. Everyone sees it. Mr. Chairman. Then my adopted motion on the FFP2 masks for care. The Minister wrote in her letter: "If the care worker asks for an FFP2 mask, there are no obstacles to that and the mask must be provided." It would be the caregiver who determines this. However, in practice, the employer always hides behind the RIVM Directive. Professional organisations say that healthcare professionals do not feel supported in any way if the Minister's words cannot be fulfilled in practice. So I ask again: how is the cabinet going to better protect the care workers? When will this obsolete directive finally be amended? Mr. Chairman. Dan AstraZeneca. I'm getting questions from worried 55-plussers. Switzerland refuses to approve the vaccine because there is no data on the effectiveness of the vaccine for 55-plussers. They shall await the results of additional research. I'll ask the cabinet what his consideration is. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the corona app, which cost an awful lot of money. How often is the app still used? How often does the app give a correct view of the situation? And it detects infections? Has that app been modified due to the mutations that are much more contagious? Because fifteen minutes in the vicinity of a corona patient who is infected with the new variant, is still a completely different story, I think. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say one thing about the statement made by Theodore Roosevelt who quoted the CDA. "The honor is due to a man who is actually in the arena, his face smeared with dust, sweat and blood." That's about vulnerability, getting up every time, it's about courage, it's about dedication and it's about the care workers. Those who oppose the tribulation in courage, persevere, do great things, sometimes at risk for their own health. It's not about the minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u67	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
