ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u1	We need the response of the initiators and the government in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, there are some people we would like to congratulate today. We congratulate Mr Baljeu on his maiden speech, which is always a very special moment for the president on his birthday and, of course, the PvdA. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the senators for the time and attention they have given to our initiative law; first of all, in the previous questions from the preliminary report, and then in this plenary debate. We will, of course, deal with the questions as well as possible. Before we answer all the questions, we would like to thank a number of other people, namely the supporters who contributed to the drafting of this bill. They are, of course, following the way we are doing at the moment in suspense. These are Koen Sijtsema of D66, Daphne Warnar of the PvdA, Jaap van der Heijden of GroenLinks and certainly Bureau of Legislation. In addition, we would like to thank the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, in particular Marije Graven and Paul van Sasse van Ysselt for their advice, as well as our external advisors Ranoe Bishoen and Huub Linthorst. Finally, a word of thanks, of course, should also go to our predecessors, who have provided the important building blocks for the drafting of this bill. These are Mr Boris van der Ham on behalf of D66, Mrs Naïma Azough and Mrs Liesbeth van Tongeren van GroenLinks, and Mrs Anja Timmer and Mr Pierre Heijnen of the PvdA. Mr. Chairman. It is of course very honorable and very nice to be in your midst today. It makes it extra special that we are talking today about our Constitution. Mr. Chairman. We have chosen to speak for all three. That might be fun for the variety as well. First of all, I will answer the general legal questions. Then my colleague Van den Hul will answer the more specific legal questions that have been asked, and also the questions specifically about sexual orientation. Then my colleague Özütok will answer the questions about, among other things, disability, international and varia. Mr. Chairman. Several senators have asked why this bill. I would like to think a little bit more about that, because I think I can answer a lot of questions at the same time. I liked it very much that Mr Rombouts of the CDA said: show me your constitution, and I'll tell you where you live. I thought that was a very nice characterization. It indicates that the constitution is based on the history of a country, the culture of a country, and that it runs organically. It's not something you make and develop through the drawing board. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked, such as: it is already in international treaties, isn't it? It's already in legislation, isn't it? Then why in the Constitution? These are questions from the SGP and also from the PVV. I think it is important to repeat what we are talking about today. Today we are talking about Article 1 of the Constitution. It's made up of two whole sentences. I have heard the first sentence several times today. That is the principle of equality: "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally," to the extent of equality. You can also reverse that: unequal cases are treated unequally to the extent of inequality. Then we have the second sentence. That is the prohibition of discrimination: 'Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground is not permitted'. Our initiative involves adding two grounds, disability and sexual orientation. That is what we are doing, bearing in mind that, unfortunately, there is still discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation. My colleagues will look at the practice of this later. Why this bill? First of all, to increase awareness. Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals has extensively reflected on this. This expression is important, so that it is in our Constitution and that people recognise it. It is also important that we set the standard. We do not accept discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation. But it is also important for legal protection. We have therefore often used the legal effects of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in our response. He has investigated what it legally means to add an extra land. What did the Commission say about legal effects? He said it could indeed lead to greater legal protection. We are talking about three types of legal protection: legal protection against the legislator, legal protection against the administration, i.e. civil protection, and legal protection by the courts. First of all, legal protection against the legislator. You could say that this is actually a hint to the legislator: at least provide a minimum level of provision. It is also protection against the local legislator. It is input for further legislation, as we have seen, for example, in the General Law on Equal Treatment. And it is also a source of further legislation. That is the first thing: legal protection against the legislator. It's also legal protection against the board. You often see that it is part of the social debate. People among themselves often talk about the Constitution. They say: 'Hey, you can't do that, that's contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution. That is also the interaction that Mr Dittrich talked about, the social groups and also the political party that plays such an important role. It is also often a reason to initiate new policies. You could actually say that it's some kind of legal hold that can serve as a social beacon. That's what it's worth. There may also be legal protection by the courts. The Commission's legal effects, i.e. the Committee on Legal Protection, indicate that the inclusion of that ground does not necessarily lead to a structural increase in legal protection, but that, in individual cases, a judge may attach a single interest to it, and that the judge is not talking about that separate ground, but rather about the ratio behind those personal characteristics. I think it's okay to think about that. Mr Dittrich of D66 also said it: it is not just about characteristics, but about personal characteristics that you cannot renounce, the so-called physical characteristics. I am talking about gender, race, but also sexual orientation and disability. It can also be about personal characteristics that you can only involuntarily renounce and affect your integrity. Then I'm talking about religion, belief in life and politics. What all these features carry is a history of disadvantage, exclusion and even persecution. These are characteristics that have been stated in the legal process that are in all reasonable terms irrelevant for determining whether the distinction is made when it comes to claims and provisions. These are characteristics that are suspected in advance, where there is a greater presumption of discrimination. That is, in short, because this bill has been going on for some time, a lot has already been written about it and many questions have been answered about why we are doing this, because there is still discrimination. But the most important function is that it increases the awareness. We are setting a standard and it can also lead to greater legal protection, as the Commission has also described legal effects. Then I look at the questions that have been asked. Of course, we followed the debate on symbolism with great interest. In particular, in the contribution of the SP, we noticed from the interruption that this is an important issue. We also see the symbolic function of the Constitution. Well, that's different than being sloppy of symbolic value. If you took him that way, you could indeed say: what is the value of such a constitution? I hope I have just been able to prove that there can be that legal protection. However you turn it or turn it, for a lot of people, Article 1 of the Constitution is very well known. It's also called the flag of the ship. You can give it all kinds of other beautiful terms. He's important to a lot of people, and he's recognizable. Of course, I do not know how it is often, but Mr Rombouts said that he does not often interrupt. I thought this was a very justified interruption, because our Constitution is so much more than just a symbol. He also has much more than just symbolic value. He also has an important role to play in legal protection. That's what I was talking about. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is true that 50PLUS also had a question there about how to settle it well and nicely in the Constitution and in other laws, but that you do not have the reality yet. There's a gap in that. I think that is a correct observation. Nevertheless, we consider such a constitutional amendment to be very important with regard to the establishment of that standard and that awareness. Let me give you the example that it is nice and nice to be able to give people the way we look at it in the integration process. If it is in the law, it is clearer in terms of visibility, but of course much more is needed in the accompanying policy. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Burg quickly expressed his support in his contribution on behalf of the VVD. Thank you for that. That's good for us. He immediately commissioned the government in his contribution. I think that is also a correct one, looking at the functioning of the Constitution in vertical relations. I shall say more about this later when I talk about horizontal and vertical action. By including it, more certainty is provided that legislation, policies and provisions for the groups we are talking about will be maintained, extended and even strengthened, now and in the future. That is why many interest groups, of people with disabilities, of chronic sick people and of people from the Ihbti community, are so eagerly looking forward to this constitutional change. It is important for them to see the rights that exist anchored. We were all touched by the contribution of Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union. I found it very beautiful and striking that he indicated that it contributes to the prosperity of society. It has also been said that you are strengthening the rule of law. That is, of course, what we end up doing for each other. We want to embalm the scratches on the soul. In that sense, it was a pleasure to see you. We could have made our speech on the basis of all the fine remarks made. Let me be clear that it is very inspiring for us to be so in your midst and to get this to us. Mr. Chairman. It was also about constitutional maturity. Mr Koole said that you have an intensive constitutional change, a procedure, and on the other hand also constitutional maturity. He asked if that would be a little unnecessary. He asked whether Thorbecke had passed his constitutional amendment in 1848 if he had to comply with that constitutional maturity. Unfortunately, we cannot answer that last question, because we will never know how it would have ended in 1848. Then we would have to move very much in that time, I think. In that sense, Mr Koole has a point that you do indeed have a very intensive procedure for amending the Constitution. Some of the senators have indicated that. There is a first and a second reading. This is a trap. It is very nice that we can vote on it today. Of course we're looking forward to the results. It's a whole procedure in that sense. There must be a new Chamber between the first and second readings. At the second reading there must also be a two-thirds majority of the Second and First Chambers. So that's tough. But as proposers, we are here as legislators. We have this procedure. We also know that it is valuable in many debates on the Constitution and that it is part of the debate to talk about the austerity of the Constitution, about constitutional maturity, the need for social justice and that social support. If you threw all that into a pile and I had to explain it to my little girl, I would say, well, it's very difficult to change the Constitution. That's basically what it's all about. I also found it typical of how the Franken Commission has conducted research into fundamental rights in the digital age and concluded that adjustments should be based on developments that should be enshrined in laws and treaties, for which there should be proper social support. When I see these interpretations, I think our legislative proposal has sufficient constitutional maturity. I also think that this constitutional maturity gives a coloration to the increased procedure for the Constitution; I think you can look at it that way. If we look at the 2001 Rouvoot motion, which was, by the way, supported by the SGP, which asked for the disability to be included in the Constitution, it has actually been the start. That discussion has always been there, but that motion in 2001 was also an anchor. But the UN Convention for People with Disabilities, which was ratified in 2006, certainly was. My colleague will tell us more about the handicap later. But also when it comes to sexual orientation, it is of course special that this year the opening up of civil marriage to couples of equal sex is twenty years ago. When we talk about the General Equal Treatment Act of 1994, we see that this includes sexual orientation. These are actually all examples of the anchoring. We dare to say that our initiative law meets the requirements that have been set. We are talking about austerity of our Constitution. I do not want to detract from the importance of this, but in this situation we are talking about three words, two reasons which we add: the increased procedure and then again that constitutional maturity, which I hope I have been able to underpin to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u4	I am told by the authors that constitutional maturity is one of the requirements in addition to procedural requirements. Well, I say "in addition," but it was a "colouring of" the procedural requirements. Why I asked that question this morning, both to the Minister and to the proposers, is because I was wondering if that would mean that you were going on a slippery path. Because when do you determine that maturity, other than what you think: there is so much support for it, that in the long run I can achieve a two-thirds majority in that procedure? So what does this whole discussion about social acceptance and procedural maturity as a separate requirement now add to that process? That's what I'm asking again. It is not just a colouring, but it seems that you should ask for permission from other people than from Parliament with a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u5	I understand Mr Koole's question. As proposers, we have taken the existing practice as our starting point, and that is the increased procedure. In many debates, when it comes to the Constitution, the question is also raised in writing: what about this constitutional maturity? Our answer was also that it's not an exact science. The question has also been asked: do you have all kinds of criteria to check on? No, not that. I can say it's steering. You can also say: it gives coloring to that weighted procedure. But I agree with Mr Koole: you can look at it in different ways. In any case, we have tried to respond to those parties who consider this constitutional maturity to be very important, in addition to the procedure that has already been tightened up. And we answered that as best we could. But it's definitely not a rule. It is also part of the political debate on how we look at such a constitutional change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u6	I welcome this answer, because this indicates that the requirements of the process are the most important, also according to the proposers. If you're trying to get through an ordinary law or a constitutional change, you'll see if this is feasible. You do that with every law. We do not speak in every law of "legal maturity." If you're sure it won't work, you're probably not gonna file it either. Sometimes you do, and then you win a defeat. Constitutional maturity...................................................................................... That was also my comment on Thorbecke. In 1848, Thorbecke was not given the king's answer: constitutional maturity. The king did not say: as a king, I think it is ripe now, and now you can submit your constitutional proposal. It's been really different. I won't elaborate at the moment, but there was also blackmail at and everything. At least there appeared to be a two-thirds majority in favour of the constitutional change, and that was what it was all about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u7	In my view, the most important thing is that the Constitution is seen as a foundation. If something is to remain a foundation, then we believe that you should not change things too quickly unthinkingly. But in the end, it is the policy that decides on this. We have tried as best we could to answer all kinds of questions about this from all kinds of angles. We liked the question, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u8	Thank you for this first introduction by the initiators. I still have a question about legal protection. The initiators say that it can provide for certain aspects of legal protection, but at the same time it is already covered by all kinds of existing legislation. Of course, it's a long process. Reference has already been made to the motion for a resolution of 20 years ago. Fifteen years ago, the cabinet at the time said that the proposal to extend these grounds does not provide a structural increase in protection. How do the initiators view the government's ruling 15 years ago, specifically on this point, with regard to the proposal as it now stands with regard to that structural increase in legal protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u9	I think this is a very fair question. We have looked closely at the Commission's 2006 report on legal effects. We've studied well what was in there. With regard to legal protection by the courts, it is true that adding a ground does not automatically, or by definition, lead to a structural increase in legal protection. That's right. But it also states that this does not mean that a judge can attach any importance to it in individual cases. I think it is. The grounds mentioned are grounds where there should actually be an alarm bell, because there is a greater suspicion that there might be discrimination. It's a case of suspicious grounds in advance. Is discrimination on grounds that are not mentioned also bad? Sure. Discrimination, on any ground, is bad and shouldn't. Only, the difference with the stated grounds is that they are suspicious in advance, that they imply that it is in all reasonableness irrelevant to distinguish, that alarm bells should go off and, as I just said, that they really have a history of exclusion, disadvantage and even persecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u10	Thanks for the reaction, but the point is this. Article 120 of the Constitution contains a prohibition of review. The judge can't directly check on these grounds. It is already regulated in lower legislation and treaties. So the judge has every possible reason to protect this. It's done. For example, we have had the case with the hands refuser: the Islamic man who refused to shake hands with women. It was rightly said that this is a ground for unacceptable discrimination. So such issues can be easily picked up by the judge. What structural increase in legal protection does this offer, which is so serious that it should really be incorporated into the Constitution as the highest possible level of legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u11	When it comes to legal protection by the courts, it is as I have just indicated, but it also provides protection against the legislator. It also provides protection against the local legislator. I have just indicated that it is also input for specific legislation. If you look at the General Law on Equal Treatment, it is the elaboration of Article 1 of the Constitution. It also ensures that new legislation is introduced. It is also legal protection in society. I've been trying to explain that it's a kind of legal hold, a social beacon. It also gives direction to civil society organisations. It is important for initiating policy. Apart from the fact that the judge can attach some importance to it, you can also see that there can be legal protection against the legislator and against the administration. Of course, that's always the balance: do you think that's enough? We believe that the answer is 'yes', especially looking at history. In 1983 there was not yet a chance to include sexual orientation. It was said that that actually falls under the first sentence. Living beliefs had to be able to continue to play a role in this. In other words, the time was not yet ripe. There were too many practical problems with regard to disability. People said about disability: that is so diverse and that can have so many different consequences. Now we're on. We now have a UN Convention for People with Disabilities. The legislation has been tightened up much more. There is now much more acceptance that the norm is that discrimination cannot be based on sexual orientation. On the point that perhaps it could have been included in 1983, we say that the time was not right at that time. Now that's the case. It leads to a certain degree of legal protection. In addition, the awareness and standard is very important, also for the people about whom it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u12	Mr. Van Hattem, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u13	The point is this. Not in 1983, but fifteen years ago, in 2005 or 2006, the then cabinet mentioned a second ground. That cabinet said that it has already been adequately included in the current provision and that is why it does not need to be extended. At the same time, the initiators also say that there are already enough regulations and standards in place. So there's a lot more to be done. The second conclusion of the cabinet at the time actually stands, namely that it is already adequately regulated at the present time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u14	As initiators, we have looked very closely at the Commission's report on legal effects. That committee concludes that it can indeed provide legal protection against the legislator and against the administration. That is a form of social legal protection. The judge may also attach some importance to it in individual cases. That has been our starting point, regardless of the fact that it certainly has social value. It is a standard, as a number of senators have indicated, and it increases awareness. For us, the balance is positive, so that we say: it does matter. It could have been included in 1983 but then the time was not right. Now we hope that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u15	Like Mr Koole, I would like to touch on constitutional maturity. In her speech, Mrs Bergkamp stated that sexual orientation was already included in the General Equal Treatment Act in 1994. But last year, you brought in heterosexual and homosexual orientation. The constitutional maturity of that word is therefore evidently at a very late stage. The first question is: is it ripe? The second question is as follows. Take, for example, the whole discussion about color. You have just said in your speech that there are personal characteristics that you are not so easy to access. Color is one of them. Yeah, we've had Black Lives Matter. Wouldn't that be a reason to take that too? That probably also applies to a lot of other parts. In other words, why these two and not exhaustive? Or why not just slim down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u16	These questions are noted. Mrs Van den Hul is about to comment on that. We've divided the questions among the three of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u17	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Because Mrs Bergkamp was extensively concerned with constitutional maturation, I thought: here I must be. But I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u18	That was provoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u19	I understand the confusion, but this point is for the other window. Mr. Chairman. I'll just go a little further. I think that I have responded sufficiently to the issues of constitutional maturity and legal necessity. That's how I can skip a few cases. I come to an important question, which has been asked by Mr Koole, the PVV, Mrs Baay-Timmerman and the Otten Group, among others, namely: what about the grounds that have not been included? I would just like to read out Mr Koole's question: 'Does it lead to better legal protection against discrimination, or does it not matter at all? Can the term 'or any land' cover grounds such as age, last name or social origin and are they less or just as much protected as those non-discrimination grounds?' I think I have just indicated in the debate with the PVV that we certainly see the inclusion of grounds. The nature of the grounds included is based on suspect grounds in advance, with a greater presumption of discrimination. Legal protection against the legislator and the administration by the judge may be based on this in any interest in individual cases. Age, last name or social origin may fall within the group "and other grounds." Sure. Let us also make it clear that discrimination against these initiators must not be allowed on the basis of whatever. I'm sure that includes you as senators. So you can also include those grounds. Then I come to the question: are they less or equally protected? I therefore say carefully: it can lead to more legal protection, because in the end, of course, it always depends on how this is done in practice. When it comes to age, the judge can also check whether there is indirect discrimination. The same applies to surnames, for example. So there are always different facets to which the judge should look at at such a time. The judge often invokes more concrete legislation such as the General Law on Equal Treatment, which is an effect of Article 1. But, of course, we also have the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination, which have their effect in the Code of Criminal Law. That question therefore depends on the circumstances that exist. Of course, the judge always has to weigh that up. Then I come to the horizontal effect. Questions have been asked about the horizontal and vertical effects, among others by Mr Koole and the Otten Group. The question has been asked: how do the initiators look at the operation of the horizontal effect in practice? Horizontal action is to work through fundamental rights in the legal relations between citizens. Vertical effect is the transmission of fundamental rights in the legal relations between the State and the citizen. Let me start by saying that the initiators see no reason to distance themselves from the classical theory that the Constitution is aimed at protecting citizens. The Constitution is intended to protect citizens from the state. Nevertheless, citizens can, of course, go to court for horizontal relations and invoke Article 1 of the Constitution. In the end, it's up to the judge to honor it or not. It is a little more in the imagination that in practice the judge will rather invoke the General Law on Equal Treatment, which focuses precisely on that horizontal effect and is intended for that purpose. The argument was, of course, that you would otherwise be dependent on that judge and those rulings in incidental cases. Now you have the AWGB, which gives much more direction and effect. Otherwise, you'll still have the Code of Criminal Law. We are therefore seeing the vertical effect of the Constitution in the first place, but of course people can appeal to it. And, of course, you can see that people in society often resort to Article 1 of the Constitution, and that they also appeal to each other. I just reported that. The Otten Group spoke about the operation. We see this effect particularly in the practice of the General Law on Equal Treatment, which is of course also widely used and in which the College of Human Rights plays an important role. Mr. Chairman. A question has been asked about the ranking of the grounds, and in any case of the Constitution. Mrs Baay-Timmerman pointed out that there is no ranking between the grounds. The PVV actually confirmed that and I agree with that. Nor is there a hierarchy between the various articles of the Constitution. If there is a conflict of fundamental rights, it is ultimately up to the courts to deal with them. It will have to look at the situation on a case-by-case basis. Mr. President, let's go. I have already dealt with a number of questions in passing. I'm gonna have to browse through my pieces. Among other things, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has asked a question about positive discrimination. Can positive discrimination still be covered by the bill we are discussing today? That is the question that has been asked. Oh, yeah, you can still do that. Our bill is about unfair discrimination, unauthorized discrimination. There are, of course, opportunities for positive discrimination. In the general law on equal treatment, for example, extra things can be done for women, cultural minorities, people with disabilities, people with a distance from the labour market. The first sentence of Article 1 of the Constitution states that unequal cases may be treated unequally according to the degree of inequality. So that positive discrimination is allowed. Mr. Chairman. Among other things, Mrs Karimi asked how the Constitution and the AWGB relate to each other. That was indeed a question you had to think about for a while; it is not a very easy question. How does that relate to you? Surely it cannot be that with all kinds of terms such as "sexual orientation" and "sex" you are dependent on the interpretation from the AWGB, because the Constitution is the "top law"? We'll share that. It is important that the Constitution is leading. The AWGB should actually be an effect on the way it is intended in the Constitution. What is happening in the AWGB should also take place within the framework of the Constitution. We are therefore in complete agreement with that. My colleagues will answer later on the question of gender and sexual orientation. But it is true that the Constitution is leading, and that it is therefore sometimes very useful to use the same terminology to avoid confusion in it. Mr. Chairman. It has also been asked whether it should be feared that land is worth less if you do not mention it. This is again about the relationship between appointed and unappointed grounds. Let me clarify this once again: discrimination is unacceptable. It doesn't matter whether or not a land is in it. It concerns certain personal characteristics; there is the difference. It concerns certain personal characteristics with a history and suspicious grounds in advance. There's that difference. And let me also say once again: the a-contrario-reason is therefore not at issue. So it is not the case that if you name a land, it would destroy the land that has not been mentioned. I think it is very important for the legal process to confirm that here again. This brings me to the end of the answer to the general legal questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u20	However, I would like to ask a question about the point about positive discrimination. This can be done, because unequal cases must be treated unequally. Do I understand correctly that the initiators mean that positive discrimination can be done, provided that it is aimed at eliminating inequality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u21	Positive discrimination means that you must always be able to legitimise it objectively and that there is never any arbitrariness. You must always be able to back it up. The general law on equal treatment, for example, does attach an objective to this and concerns, for example, the position on the labour market. So you always have to be able to explain why you're making that distinction. We know that the AWGB is a closed form, so in the AWGB it is well explained that the standard is to "do not make a distinction, if." The basis is then decided when a derogation is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u22	I understand that it needs to be properly explained. Of course, every policy must do that. Discrimination can't be, that it's the first. The answer to the question of positive discrimination was yes. My question then is whether that is allowed to eliminate inequality and I do not get a good answer to that, other than that you need to be able to explain it properly. The Equal Treatment Committee rejected the procedure at the University of Eindhoven. It has been said that this positive discrimination is aimed at eliminating inequality in the appointment of female workers at the University of Eindhoven. And yet this committee says that that goes too far. In such a discussion, do we have any use for your view that positive discrimination should be possible, provided that it can be properly explained?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u23	No, and I think that's right. That is why it is never good to respond to this in individual situations. In this case, it is the Human Rights College that has made that assessment and presented a result. To answer your question: you can't say that you can, as long as you explain it correctly. It's always dependent on the situation and the rationale "How far does anything go?" The Court of First Instance held that the Court of First Instance erred in You can never answer the question with "yes" or "no," as much as I'd like to. The most important thing is that there must be an ID, that it must be objective and that it fits a purpose. These are basically all the requirements laid down in the General Law on Equal Treatment; that is what it has to comply with. Random isn't allowed. In the specific situation it ultimately depends on several factors and then comes the College of Human Rights with a ruling or the judge. You can't say "it's allowed if it helps in the labour market." The foundation is very important. In the end, it is a trade-off that depends on other factors. That is also the difference between Article 1 of the Constitution, which has been formulated openly, and the General Law on Equal Treatment, which has been closed and which means that you have to meet much more of the requirements in the justification. In the end, the balance lies with the judge or the College.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u24	Mr Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u25	I understand that, but I am still trying to conclude, with the question of whether the proposers agree, that arbitrariness should not in any case be allowed to be a general standard and that further in any particular situation you must have a specific basis. I would say that positive discrimination can go as far as that leads to the elimination of inequality. Is this not of the same category as 'no arbitrariness', as a requirement to be able to motivate in a specific case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u26	As tempting as it is to answer that question with "yes," we cannot do that. That's so dependent on circumstances. This is a legal treatment, so I think we should also be careful to steer too much in that area. The General Law on Equal Treatment really offers a lot of scope for formulating rules for positive discrimination, but the balance and assessment are ultimately up to the judge and the College, who can say "that meets and that does not satisfy".
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u27	I had the feeling twice: what exactly is it? I have heard twice the phrase 'unfair cases may be treated unequally'. Can I conclude that Mrs Bergkamp only allocates this to cases where positive discrimination is possible? Because you can also have the reasoning that equal cases can be treated unequally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u28	Look at the first sentence of Article 1 of the Constitution "like cases must be treated equally', as it is given a concrete expression in terms of equality. This can also be reversed: treating unequal cases unequally to the extent of inequality. This means, for example, someone who has dyslexia and needs more time to study. This is a form of unequal treatment that is justified because someone has a disability. These are examples that are possible from this positive discrimination. And that was the fear when we talked about disability years ago. People thought: people with disabilities, chronically ill, there is so much diversity in that; how are you going to do that? Well, the rest of this file came by saying that unequal cases can also be treated unequally to the extent of inequality. And I understand that you're trying to connect the two now, but I'm actually going to tell you how to look at the first sentence of Article 1 of the Constitution, how it's interpreted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u29	I'm gonna take a very close look at that. Because we have, of course, also asked questions to the Minister, which indicates that at some point you can certainly distinguish if it is something that is essentially legitimate, a legitimate requirement, for example. Then you can have equal cases that are treated unfairly, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u30	That is the possibility that the AWGB also offers for a form of positive discrimination, as in Mr Koole's interruption. Yeah, so there's room for positive discrimination. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u31	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. Is Mrs Van den Hul next? Now let's go clean the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would now like to address some specific legal questions and questions on the subject of sexual orientation. First of all, I would like to address the question: why not get rid of all the grounds? That question was rhetorically asked by Mr Dittrich of D66, but I think less rhetorically also by the PVV and 50PLUS. In the opinion of us as initiators, it is undesirable to delete all the grounds mentioned in Article 1. Article 1 sets a clear standard with regard to non-discrimination, and shortening Article 1 would make that standard less clear. This concerns non-discrimination and religion, belief in life, political orientation, race and gender. The deletion of these grounds has never been the subject of a wide-ranging discussion. There is therefore no indication, as previously argued in the House of Representatives, that there would be a significant public support for such a fundamental amendment to Article 1 of the Constitution. And we suspect that such a change of law would not be properly understood in our society either and would lead to many questions about the importance that the constitutionalist attaches to preventing discrimination based on the explicit grounds of religion, belief, political orientation, race and gender. "Why not include categories?', among others 50PLUS, but also the SGP and the Party for Animals, "why not name all other elements?'. Age has been mentioned, for example. Or color, mentioned among others by the Party for Animals but also by the SGP, as an example following the Black Lives Matter movement. Don't they have maturity? Let me say first of all that the Constitution is sober. We, as initiators, wholeheartedly endorse this point of departure. For the two reasons, explicit inclusion is a translation of broad social acceptance, in which the social debate can be considered crystallised. In addition, the grounds of disability and sexual orientation are related to Mrs Bergkamp already pointed out at the beginning a history of structural persecution and far-reaching legal disadvantage. Handicap and sexual orientation are also personal characteristics of which you cannot renounce. Broad social acceptance has led to other legislation that protects against discrimination on these grounds, such as the Equal Treatment Act based on Disability or Chronic Disease, the aforementioned AWGB and the Code of Criminal Law. The fact that these personal characteristics enjoy special legal protection also indicates the material severity of a discriminatory expression of those personal characteristics. Inclusion of the grounds disability and sexual orientation in Article 1 is a confirmation of this. For other reasons, the discussion cannot yet be regarded as crystallised. Sometimes there are also explicit reasons not to include a land, for example because it does not fit within the system of the current land, as is the case with age. I shall deal with this in a little more detail later. Among others Mrs Teunissen specifically asked about the ground color. In response, it is good to say that Article 1 of the Constitution has its effect in the AWGB and in criminal law provisions. The concept of race has a broad meaning and is in line with the broad definition laid down in the 1966 International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. Different characteristics are then associated, which may include geographical or ethnic characteristics. Apart from that, if I may finish this point, it is true that the call for the inclusion of the grounds of disability and sexual orientation in Article 1 has existed for a long time, as Mr Bergkamp explained in her contribution. These are grounds already contained in legislation and treaties. These are grounds on which the aforementioned groups continue to suffer a great deal of nuisance. I will say more about discrimination later. Fully objective criteria cannot be given. Given the nature and history of these grounds, as initiators, we find that they now explicitly belong in Article 1. Now I'd actually get to the block of age, but I see there's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u33	For the Acts, just a little correction. 50PLUS has not advocated a restriction on the grounds already listed. On the contrary, my question was why, for example, birth, ethnic origin, language and genetic characteristics, which are also very personal, are not added immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u34	I didn't think I was suggesting that that was the case, but if I quoted you wrong, I apologize. I would now like to address the questions that have been asked about the age of the ground. In the House of Representatives we also exchanged this with each other extensively. Today, among others, 50PLUS and the Party for the Animals asked questions about this. At the request of the House of Representatives, the Section gave advice to the Council of State on the Krol amendment, which explicitly concerned whether or not to add the basic age. I would like to point out that age discrimination is also a serious social problem for the proposers. I hope that we all agree on this in this Chamber today. However, the Advisory Section of the Council of State points out in its information that age as a non-discrimination ground is of such a nature as to be different from the non-discrimination grounds set out in Article 1 of the Constitution and the grounds of disability and sexual orientation, that addition of age to that list of named grounds is not reasonable. This has to do, among other things, with the fact that age-based distinction is not suspicious in advance, but can often be a functional criterion that justifies distinction. It leaves the legislator more room. Think, for example, of voting rights, student funding or pension. Therefore, in the light of the opinion of the Council of State, it does not reflect the ratio of the grounds contained in the Constitution to add age to it. Then there's the relationship with freedom of speech. Among other things, the PVV referred to the discussion that took place a few decades ago, including under the direction of Mr Fortuyn, about the relationship between Article 1 on the one hand and freedom of expression on the other. Freedom of expression is already restricted by different legal rules, including through the Code of Criminal Law. The addition of the grounds for discrimination and disability and sexual orientation in Article 1 does not restrict that freedom of expression, nor, for example, the grounds specifically mentioned in Article 1, race and religion. However, the ideas arising from Article 1 of the Constitution may give rise to the criminalisation of certain expressions of expression. That criminalisation is laid down in Articles 137c and 137d of the Code of Criminal Law for insult and hatred. In fact, disability and heterosexual orientation have already been included. In addition, in criminal law, the balance between the prohibition of discrimination and freedom of expression, the European Convention on Human Rights and thus the case law of the European Court of Human Rights is particularly relevant. Expressions which I hope the President will excuse me for just a moment that I will pass on to English 'offend','shock' or 'disturb', are protected by Article 10 of the ECHR, freedom of expression. However, in some cases an infringement of that freedom of expression may be justified by the court. In those cases, however, Article 1 of the Constitution is not applied by the Dutch courts. We therefore believe that this legislative proposal does not affect criminal law in this respect. I would like to go into the questions that have been raised about sexual orientation and the practice of discrimination. A lot has been said about this. Mr Verkerk said very nicely: equality of people must be rooted in the rule of law. Mr. Rombouts from the CDA indicated that there's still some space between paper and practice. Mr Koole of the PvdA said that it should actually be self-evident, but unfortunately it is not yet. And Mr Kox of the SP pointed out the problem and said: we are unfortunately still a long way from being there. My colleague, Mr Özütok, will discuss discrimination against people with disabilities. I shall confine myself to examples of discrimination based on sexual orientation, which Mr Dittrich of D66 also mentioned. Persons with a non-heterosexual orientation have different types of discrimination on the grounds of their homosexuality or bisexuality. Those are, for example, violent crimes, which some of you have pointed out are harassments in the neighborhood, in education or in the workplace, or are being shouted at in the street. Discrimination based on sexual orientation forms a relatively small part of the cases submitted to the Human Rights College, the judgments of which are based on the AWBG and thus concern discrimination, including employment and access to services. In 2019 almost 10,000 times, to be precise 9,868 times, notification or declaration of discrimination was made. That was over 5,000 times in the police force and over 4,000 times in anti-discrimination agencies. The police recorded relatively often the ground sexual orientation, namely 1.603 times. It is precisely for this reason that we, as initiators, believe that accompanying policy - some of you referred to - is so incredibly important. The Minister will say something about this later, we understand. I say here, in particular to the PVV, that we, as proposers, believe that any discrimination based on sexual orientation should be rejected, regardless of who discriminates. It has been asked: why not heterosexual and homosexual orientation, as described in an earlier version? Mr Schalk of the SGP specifically asked whether the constitutional maturity would have arisen during or after the debate in the Lower House. It is true that the draft law has been amended in this respect compared to the original proposal of 2012. This has to do with the fact that this wording is more inclusive, and, for example, lesbian women and bisexuals recognise themselves better in the chosen wording. That is a point that has indeed been appointed by Mr Van Dijk in the Lower House. Mr Kox has already referred to this. A bill is currently under preparation to review the AWGB in the Criminal Code on this issue. The term sexual orientation, or sexual orientation in English, is also used internationally by, for example, the United Nations Human Rights Council and the European Parliament. The term therefore corresponds to the terminology used internationally. It is also more consistent with the existing five grounds in Article 1, which are also generic, i.e. without any further clarification. It is a broader formulation. Since the College of Human Rights already understood the current wording in the AWGB to be broader than the binary contradiction of heterosexuality and homosexuality, one could also speak of the codification of that development. The Advisory Section of the Council of State stated that the specific mention of heterosexual and homosexual orientation does not fit in with the systems currently used in Article 1, and that therefore a more open wording would be preferable. The opinion of the Council of State also gave rise to this amendment. Mr Bergkamp has previously considered the concept of constitutional maturity. In the opinion of the initiators, there is constitutional maturity for protecting individuals on the basis of their orientation, whether heterosexual, asexual, bisexual or homosexual. The amendment concerned in particular an improvement in the present legislative proposal. It was only the way in which this group should be formulated. Mr Schalk also asked a question about the risk of overinclusion and about possible inclusion of, for example, pedosexuality. Let me be very clear about this. Pedosexuality is a criminal offence. This proposal does not change anything. We have been very clear about this in the House of Representatives. So was the Minister. That is what we are again today. As initiators, we are concerned with sexual orientations towards another, regardless of the sex of the other. This includes, for example, lesbian women, homosexual men and bisexuals. It is not intended to protect attractions because of other characteristics of the other person, such as minors. Article 1 of the Constitution refers to discrimination. We talked about that before. Discrimination is an unauthorized distinction. Pedosexuality, if implemented, is punishable. We are keen to be very clear about this again today. Mr. Chairman. Among others 50PLUS, but also GroenLinks and the PVV asked about discrimination based on sex, which is precisely what this means, and in particular about discrimination against trans- and inter-sex individuals. A number of examples were also mentioned. These land are covered by gender, as has also been specified in the AWGB. We are, of course, aware of serious discrimination affecting transgender persons and intersex persons. That discrimination is unacceptable. Some of you, including Mr Dittrich, have also mentioned this. However, a separate soil would not be obvious to us as initiators, as they are already covered within the present, explicated soil sex. In a further reply, this was discussed in detail. Moreover, the Constitution's system means that the grounds are not further explicated, as is the case, for example, with religion. Then I would like to conclude, Mr President. My colleague, Mr Özütok, will then answer the questions on the basic disability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. Mrs Özütok has the floor. The cathedral will be cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will look at the questions of disability and discrimination in practice in my contribution. People with disabilities are certainly still often victims of discrimination. This is largely about accessibility, but also about labour market discrimination. This is also reflected in the annual reports of the College of Human Rights. But the discrimination ground disability has been the basis of most complaints coming in for years. People with disabilities still have a lot to do with the fact that they sometimes literally don't come in. That prevents them from fully participating in society. Interest groups have been asking for this addition for decades. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about the different concepts and the definition of "disability" and "chronic disease." Let me be the first to think about that. In terms of the interpretation of the basic disability, the initiators will join the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (hereinafter referred to as "the UN Convention'). According to the UN Convention, the concept of persons with disabilities includes persons with long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory disabilities that may prevent them from participating fully and effectively in society on the basis of equality with others in interaction with various thresholds. Chronic illness is undoubtedly a ground-breaking handicap. That was also Mr Dittrich's question. I refer immediately to his question about that. It is good to look at how we are doing in the Netherlands in relation to international law and international law on the basis of the previous definition. The question is whether the Netherlands is actually in breach of international law. I can assure you that we have looked at this as initiators. But it is not up to us to determine whether the Netherlands is currently failing to comply with treaty obligations regarding discrimination based on sexual orientation or disability. The proposal does not see that either. In any case, the initiators are not familiar with the case law of, for example, the European Court of Human Rights or the European Court of Justice, which shows that the Netherlands does not fulfil obligations in this area. That's reassuring. However, several sources of international law have also explicitly included "disability" and "sexual orientation" as non-discrimination grounds. The European Convention on Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights do not mention the two grounds, but there is no discussion that they are covered by non-limitative grounds. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the EU Working Convention do specify both grounds. These apply within the scope of European Union law. According to Article 21 (1) of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, any discrimination, in particular on grounds of sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other views, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation, shall be prohibited. The UN Convention on Handicap can also be referred to as encouragement. I would also like to mention the 1998 Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, international law does not create an obligation to amend the Constitution in this respect. But it is an important encouragement. Then I would like to dwell on Mrs Baay-Timmerman's question. She asked why people talk about "disability" and not about "limitation." As far as definitions are concerned, we have joined the existing treaties, because this gives better recognition in our system. That said, I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u37	That does seem very clear to me. The term "disability" is also widely used in treaties. Is it also clear to everyone that this includes "chronic disease"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u38	That is an important point indeed. Of course, not everyone is familiar with all those grounds. I agree. When it comes to information on this amendment and the law, it is important to bear this in mind. I absolutely agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u39	Do you therefore agree with me that it is a pity that "disability" and, in particular, the specification "chronic disease" has not been included?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u40	"Chronic disease" has been included. It's called "disability." It is not explicitly stated in the text. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u41	That was indeed my point. Do you think that you can make that clear, in the sense that every citizen, who is supposed to know the Constitution, and in particular this very important Article 1, will be fully aware that "disability" must also be understood as "chronic illness"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u42	That's a fair question. I think that this is something that needs to be taken into account in information. Under the Constitution, religion is not explicitly clear which religions or sound beliefs are meant by it either. In this sense, it is common practice for such terms to be used and for further clarification and information to be required. Mr. Chairman. Then there were a number of questions. First of all, I would like to address Mrs Karimi's question on social counterweight. Ms Karimi asked how the initiators look at the social counterwind experienced by trans-, inter-sex and non-binary individuals and what should be done in the area of accompanying policies. First of all, it is good to note that initiators were overwhelmed by the huge influx of positive reactions as far as this proposal is concerned. Apart from that, it is unfortunately the case that emancipation rarely happens to never without any counterweight. Unfortunately, that's true. If we as a society accept a standard, such as that we do not discriminate against people on the basis of their sexual orientation or disability, then it is important to remain in favour of that standard as a society and also as a government. This is also done through accompanying policies. It is important that the government and therefore we, as legislators, are aware of how that decision will work out in every decision. Are we dealing with blind spots? Or maybe we're assuming a stereotyping after all? It is also up to the authorities to establish, in addition to the standard, that discrimination should not be allowed and, where necessary, to act positively to guarantee minority rights. This also includes the accessibility of public services. Mr. Chairman. There were also questions from Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u43	I still have a question for the initiators about discrimination against people with disabilities. More and more municipalities I have already referred to it in the written round now use very strict parking standards. Here in The Hague, for example, they already have a parking standard of zero for some housing projects. A person with a disability who is dependent on, for example, a car adapted to a handicap or other forms of transport, and who wants to live in such a housing project or who already lives in such a housing project and becomes disabled during that period, may have to move because otherwise he will no longer have transport. How is that supposed to be seen? Isn't a municipality discriminated against if they set such a strict parking standard that there is no longer a suitable transport system for people to live in such a complex?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u44	This question is really about local policy and how a municipality expresses it. So it doesn't have much to do with our proposal, which we are working on today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u45	But that is precisely what I find intriguing, because I heard your colleague, Mr Bergkamp, say that municipalities should also be able to take into account aspects of this article of the Constitution in their regulations, rules and decisions. So let's say I buy an apartment in a housing project with parking standard zero. I'm getting disabled and I'm out of transport. Can I say to such a municipality'sorry, but you discriminate against me because there is no more transport'? What is the practical effect of this article? Or do you immediately say 'it is local policy' and with that also 'the addition of these categories is of zero and general value in this practice'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u46	I think it is an important signal to indicate what is in the Constitution and how we want policy on people with disabilities to be dealt with. But it is not up to us to go from here to settle what policy needs to be pursued within such a municipality. You can agree with me, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u47	Mr Van Hattem, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u48	That is precisely what I think is problematic about the addition of these categories. It all sounds very nice that this is done and that people with disabilities are helped with it, but in practice, when the municipality puts down its housing project and someone with disabilities says "wait a minute, I can't go forward in this way," such a municipality says equally loudly: "Sorry, but you have had bad luck. We cannot do anything about that in practice, because this appeal to the Constitution sounds nice, but it is above all a symbolic law that we have here." How can you justify this to those people who think they can take this one step forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u49	I keep saying the same thing: this is an important signal to our local authorities. The PVV must also realise that in a number of cases it is also the distribution of scarcity. However, it is the role of local authorities to decide on this. They do so democratically, along with their municipal councils. If you don't mind, I'd like to answer the questions of the SGP. They were about medical-ethical issues, embryo selection and abortion, in relation to our bill. Mr Schalk asked questions about the impact of the proposal on unborn children or prenatal selection. This proposal has no impact on the issues of embryo selection or abortion. The legal fact is that there is only a carrier of rights and obligations, a legal subject, if that person is born alive. Provisions have also been included, including in our legislation. So the answer is no. Also provisions from, among other things, the UN Convention on Handicap have no impact on the issues you referred to. You also referred to the registration in the BRP of stillborn children. I would like to add that that is of a very different order. It was about a petition. There was a long struggle by a number of parents to get the recognition of stillborn babies. With a petition 82,000 signatures were collected to make that possible in that municipal registration. That law has come of it; I am glad of it myself. It is about institutional recognition of parents' suffering. It has no further legal consequences. In that sense, it is good that our legislation also takes account of what is happening in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u50	I fully agree with Mrs Özütok that it is very nice that the petition at the time led to a legislative proposal. However, in dealing with this bill, my group has explicitly asked what consequences that might have. It's not just about lifeless children. Also children who have been aborted, I speak about abortion provocatus, which can be registered in the Basic Registration. So that means they have a right. That unborn child has a right, namely to be registered as a child, as a human being. Shouldn't you be willing to look at the consequences by saying: okay, then such a child also has rights? It is a great time within your legislative proposal to point out that this applies to all people, and not just to those who are already here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u51	That's right. In the registration in the BRP I have indeed found that there are also municipalities that register miscarriages. But it's still the same. This registration is a piece of recognition and recognition for the parents of the pain and suffering suffered. It has no legal consequences. I understand you're looking for legal consequences, but there are no legal consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u52	We agree on that. I've seen the answers. The proposers spoke of "unborn fruit." Let us first establish that it is not about a fruit, but about a child, a human being, even if it is not born. Is that also Mrs Özütok's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u53	No, that's your opinion. I already told you how I see it. There is only a carrier of rights and duties, a legal subject, if that person is born alive. The registration in the BRP obviously has an emotional meaning for parents. That is indeed of a different order, but I fear that we will continue to disagree there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u54	Let me return to my specific question: is unborn life about a child, a human being, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u55	It's not about a child. You had a question about unborn children or prenatal selection. My colleague tells me something, but... I keep saying that there is only a carrier of rights and duties when that person, or a child, is born alive. We are talking in the BRP about born, but perhaps shortly afterwards deceased children, but perhaps also a miscarriage. That's covered by the BRP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u56	You can always come back to this in the second term, if you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u57	It is not just children who died after birth or miscarriage. The law also mentions aborted children. Just for the record, Mrs Özütok also says that it is about unborn children. My simple question is, is it a child or is it not a child?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u58	You asked a question about the BRP. I didn't know we were gonna figure that out right now. Our proposal is not about that today, but I would like to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u59	It seems very good to me that we have complete clarity as to whether we are talking about children, people or not, and what consequences this could have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u60	Perhaps a little further away from the political debate, but in my view it is legal that Article 1:2 of the Civil Code indicates that an unborn child can already be a legal object. The initiators say that an unborn child cannot yet be a legal object, but I do not think that is legally correct. I'd like to be corrected if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u61	I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u62	I spoke in my speech about the power of the rule of law. As far as I am concerned, this is demonstrated by compliance with the law. My question to this whole thing is: are we not going to make a dead letter out of Article 1? How do you prevent the new additions from becoming a dead letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u63	I wanted to come back to Mr Baljeu's question. In fact, you had already indicated that point in the first period. I'd like to start with that now. You asked about the legal value of Article 1 of the Constitution in the light of the prohibition of scrutiny. That was your question in the first term. Article 120 of the Constitution prohibits the courts from examining formal laws against the Constitution. Lower rules can be tested. It is also a role of the legislator to review the Constitution when making legislation. The Council of State also plays a role in this as an advisor. That is the legal protection against the legislator. You also had a question about designation. All Dutch people can be named on an equal footing in public service. There is no hierarchy between the constitutional articles. The initiators agree with Mr Baljeu that every Dutchman can be named on an equal footing, specifically with regard to mayors. Every Dutchman from the age of 18 can apply and the municipal councils nominate a candidate. Mr President, I think I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u64	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u65	I don't think I asked those questions. They were good questions, but not the right answers to me yet. I have established a relationship with the new legislation, the additions to Article 1, and found that there are some problems in compliance here and there. If we establish that today and add it to Article 1, then the question is what guarantee we have that Article 1 will not and will not become a dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u66	I did mix up the names, didn't I? I apologise to Mr Raven. That was indeed a good question. There is, of course, still a lot to be done in terms of enforcement, enforcement and implementation in society. This is a matter of legislation and regulation, but it will also have to be addressed in policy and accompanying policies. This is an important start. It is an important recognition, especially for people who have been waiting for it for years. I can say that they have to deal with discrimination day in and day out. This is recognition and recognition for them. We're not here yet. There is still a lot to be done to really exclude discrimination from our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u67	I am told that you agree with me that there should be a strengthening of compliance at least on parts in order to encourage this. If we write it down and don't respect and enforce it in the rule of law, that means you're actually writing a dead letter. I have particularly challenged you to strengthen it in the future at that point. We want to support it, but we need to have the assurance that it really makes sense to establish it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u68	We must insist at all times that discrimination is prohibited. Of course, there is also a need for design and inclusion in policy and regulation. However, this is a very important signal for people who have been waiting for this for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u69	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Then I give...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u70	I had a final word. I can do that in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u71	That choice is yours. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u72	Mr President, thank you. I am back in your midst today, and that is a great pleasure. On this initiative proposal, I am an advisor to Parliament and today from the Upper House. Much has already been said about the fact that an initiative legislative proposal is being defended here by three MPs. It often happens to us all that we realize that we are on the shoulders of giants and that thanks to our predecessors we can sometimes do beautiful things. I think that's true today, too. An initiative proposal to amend the Constitution by adding two grounds of discrimination to the list of grounds that together reflect the core values of Dutch society as described in Article 1 is special. The cabinet believes that the initiators are quite right on this point. It is one of the core values of Dutch society to say that discrimination based on disability and sexual orientation is not tolerated. The Cabinet also believes that it is appropriate to explicitly anchor this in Article 1 of our Constitution. That is why the cabinet is happy to support the initiative legislative proposal. This is also reflected in the coalition agreement. Of course, that has lost meaning since the cabinet was decommissioned, but I would like to remind you of that. So I think it is the crown of emancipation of people with disabilities, lesbian women, homosexual men and bisexuals, as the initiators say. But in the opinion of the cabinet, it also contributes to the emancipation of these groups. This emancipation is not complete, because we still see today that discrimination is a problem for these groups. It is good to stress that there should really be no doubt that discrimination against people because of their restriction or sexual orientation is prohibited. By including an explicit ban in the Constitution, this becomes even clearer for everyone; for employers, for service providers, for people who see two same-sex people walking hand in hand on the street and for people who see someone in a wheelchair. Those are people like everyone else who have the right not to be discriminated against. And, frankly, it is also the government's expectation that inclusion of these grounds in the Constitution will raise awareness among victims of this form of discrimination. They don't have to let this go on their side, which sometimes still happens. They have a right on their side if they take action against it. So that is the value of the initiative proposal for the cabinet, because discrimination on these grounds has already been prohibited, in equal treatment legislation, criminal law, and that is what it has been about today. However, as far as the expression, and the emphasis on its importance, is concerned, there is nothing like the inclusion in Article 1 of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer the questions put to the government in two. First of all, I would like to comment on the questions raised by the constitutional review and any additional legislative changes that lie behind it. And in the second part I would like to comment on the 'low-level policy'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u73	I have a question about the Minister's remark that victims should really be able to look at this provision and also to work on it if they feel that they have been discriminated against on these grounds. In the Netherlands we have Pink Police in Blue. But it is always on a voluntary basis that the police people receive complaints, receive reports. Then they hand it over to others within the police organization. And you often hear that it actually gets a bit bogged down. Does the Minister agree with the D66 Group that this needs to be handled in a much more robust way, and that Pink in Blue really needs support to do the job well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u74	Mr Dittrich asks for one specific point: the police. That is, of course, important. I am familiar with Pink in Blue and I also know that sometimes questions are asked about it. Can't it be firmer? Do the police have enough possibilities at all? Can we also do more, for example, about the willingness to report on the problem I also mentioned and, of course, to which Mr Dittrich is right to draw attention? I am going to go into all the areas that are at stake, because of course this is true in many areas. We see this with the police and the willingness to report, but there is also discrimination against homosexuals in many other ways. Can we do something about that, too? I would therefore like to comment a little more on Mr Dittrich's question later. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I come to the constitutional review itself. Mr Koole and others referred to constitutional maturity. If I have listened to Mr Koole correctly, he wondered whether this constitutional maturity, i.e. the broad acceptance of society, is not already contained in the heavier procedural requirements of a constitutional revision. I think that Mr Koole has just put it very well, because that is of course the case. At the same time, several Chambers and Cabinets have repeatedly found it useful to give some hands and feet to all these heavy procedural revision requirements. This is done through the use of criteria such as "constitutional maturity" and "wide social acceptance." So those criteria actually give some coloration to the heavy review procedure, which is governed by Article 137 of the Constitution. The process of constitutional reform and therefore the question of constitutional maturity go hand in hand. I believe that Mr Koole actually said so and that is what he meant. And if you look at history, we don't have to be so scared of cherrypicking. That word fell this morning. We are now talking about Article 1 of the Constitution, an article that has been carved into stone for about 40 years; in this case, we can also take it literally. So that's been the way it is for a long time, so it's not really going that fast; I think we're doing this very carefully in the Netherlands. Mr Baljeu of the Otten Group, whom I also congratulate on his maiden speech, asked whether other grounds would be less priority. These grounds are really about themes that are based on a long process of emancipation. There is therefore constitutional maturity to include those grounds, disability, sexual orientation. That's different on other grounds. It was also about age, for example. These grounds have already been included in that equality legislation, the General Law on Equal Treatment. I'll get back to you on that. The Equal Treatment Act on the basis of Disability or Chronic Disease already provides for this. Then there was the question of Mr Verkerk, Mr Koole and others: what is the legal effect of explicitly naming these grounds in Article 1 of the Constitution? I thought it was again Mr Verkerk who made that trip, which I heard a few times today: legal effects for the legislator, social consequences and legal effects for the judge. I share the conclusion that the explicit designation of non-discrimination grounds for the legislator and society is of great importance. This does not necessarily lead to greater legal protection in the courts, but in individual cases courts may attach some importance to it, especially now that the distinction between one of the explicitly mentioned grounds will soon be regarded as suspicious. This has just been explained by the initiators. However, I agree with the Commission's position on legal effects that the judge assesses each case on its own merits and is more guided by the material gravity of the discriminatory act or expression than by whether the ground is included in Article 1 of the Constitution. What is the legal value of Article 1 of the Constitution in the light of the prohibition of scrutiny? That was a question from Mr Baljeu. Article 120 of the Constitution prohibits the courts from examining formal laws against the Constitution. Lower forms of regulation and de facto action can be judged by the courts under the Constitution, i.e. also under Article 1. And then, of course, it is important that the legislator himself should actually be us as we are here, and the Council of State is also involved in the process of reviewing legislative proposals under the Constitution, and in so doing Mr Verkerk pointed out that it is of particular importance that certain grounds have beenexplicated. That is the legal protection against the legislator. Mr Schalk said that the wording "sexual orientation" carries the risk of overinclusion and asked me to reflect on it. I think I can agree with what has just been said by the initiators. The interpretation of the concept of "sexual orientation" is in line with the internationally accepted interpretation given to this concept. Thus, the emphasis is on sexual orientation towards individuals regardless of sex. And it's also explicitly excluded by the initiators, and it's also very clear, I think, what that means, so it doesn't mean that focus on factors other than sex would suddenly be protected. And, as you know, when it comes to sexual acts that result in a criminal offence, Mrs van den Hul said that, in my view, this is a criminal offence, and that is in no way protected by inclusion in Article 1. Then there is the movement between citizens. Mr Koole asked for that. Does it also apply to citizens themselves? The prohibition of discrimination is for the most important horizontal relationships, and then it is about work, living, training, transport, all regulated by the General Act on equal treatment and in the Act on equal treatment on grounds of disability or chronic illness, and in the General Act on equal treatment when it comes to that sexual orientation. In addition, the provisions on discrimination in the Code of Criminal Law may apply to discrimination in horizontal relations, and the prohibition of discrimination in Article 1 may act as a legal principle in civil legal relations through the tort. A constitutional change is not enough, I think, to combat this discrimination, but for those who are discriminated against because of disability or sexual orientation, it may be an incentive to fight it and, for example, to refer a case to the Human Rights College. "What practical consequences does that have?', was a question from Mrs Teunissen. But perhaps first, Mr Koole?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u75	Do I hear the Minister say about the horizontal effect that it can actually be found primarily in ordinary formal legislation, rather than in the Constitution? Or does the amended Article 1 already have a horizontal effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u76	I would say: yes, there is also a direct effect of it, just because of what I outlined. So it is not enough as such. And at the same time, the fact that it is recorded naturally has a direct effect on people, sometimes not so much because of the legal effect, but because it can be an incentive, because it is in that Article 1, to do something with it. In this sense, it also has a cross-cutting effect, between citizens. But again: actually, you could say that it was already regulated in legislation for that horizontal effect, so in ordinary laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u77	I fully agree with the Minister on that last point. In fact, this means that, strictly legally speaking, the amendment of Article 1 does not mean so much for this horizontal effect, but, as I have said, it has a very significant symbolic and recognizable meaning, which will enable citizens to use it in their mutual relations. But they cannot rely on Article 1 in the legal sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u78	No, exactly. But if I were to say that it has no effect or meaning for citizens among themselves, it would not do justice to the fact that I think that the effect and the mere fact that it is there in practice will certainly be an incentive for people to invoke it earlier and perhaps to go to the College of Human Rights or to report it earlier; I refer to the debate I just had with Mr Dittrich. I think it will have that practical effect, but in the legal sense Mr Koole has put it very well. Mrs Teunissen asked about the practical consequences. In the debate on the interruption with Mr Koole, the answer has actually already been given: I think it is very important that this recognition has consequences, that it will make interested groups and people more aware of the fact that they enjoy protection. That sometimes does not go through the Constitution, but through these other laws does not change that. But I think it's reinforced by the inclusion in Article 1. Then I come to the question put by several speakers on the amendment of the General Law on Equal Treatment, which will also have to be amended. Mrs Karimi rightly said that. That change is also in preparation. I thought I'd briefed the Chamber on that. I do that with JenV's colleague. A combined bill will be presented, which will change both the terminology in the AWGB and the Code of Criminal Law. We have made a draft legislative proposal for this, which has been in consultation this autumn. At the moment, the responses that have been received are being processed. Normally, I would have said that it would come as soon as possible, at least that we should send it to the Council of State. That will then require a further weighing-up in the Council of Ministers, because we are decommissioned. This means that every step of the legislation must be decided explicitly in the Council of Ministers. I must therefore make that reservation, but it is being worked on. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second part, which I call disrespectful. There have been justified questions about actual discrimination in society. For example, Mr Verkerk asked about jobs for the disabled. He quoted reports about this, and he mentioned the 125,000 extra jobs for people with disabilities and their realisation. In a letter dated 16 November 2020, the then State Secretary of SZW addressed those figures to which Mr Verkerk referred. Perhaps it is worth pointing out that out of those 125,000 there are about 100,000 companies that need to be realized and 25,000 government-owned. I think it's really disappointing, let me just say that here, too, that the government didn't achieve those numbers for 2019 either, because that's what the reporting was about. It is clear that the government's employers therefore need to step up their efforts in order to do this better. I also informed the House of Representatives in December about the additional measures we can take to improve this, because there is a quantitative deficit among the public employers. We're gonna have to walk it in. It's kind of hard to do this, even now in this corona crisis, but I think we should start to realize our share of those 25,000 jobs in the government. Mr Rombouts of the CDA asked whether it would be a good idea to impose stricter sanctions on the victims of violence. He suggested that a national coordinator should be appointed and that they should also be instructed to better identify and solve the problem. Partly as a result of a debate in the House of Representatives, which I believe was last July, we gave a strong impetus to the broad fight against discrimination. We also agreed with the House of Representatives to appoint a national coordinator for discrimination and racism. The cabinet has also promised to set up a state committee on discrimination and racism. This Chamber has also taken a number of steps in this area. Municipal anti-discrimination agencies are being strengthened. The monitoring of municipalities that do not make serious work of this is strengthened. These are additional pathways which are on top of existing discrimination policies and which have been stimulated by the Lower House and by the investigation that this Chamber has instituted. If Mr Rombouts says that we would still see if we could do more specifically for this, I understand that. But I think that we have already added a lot of extras and that this fits in very well. The cabinet response on the report on the childcare allowance also included statements referring to that national coordinator and that state committee. Then there are the measures to increase awareness and acceptance. Mr Van der Burg and Mrs Karimi asked for this. In other words, what else does the cabinet do? I have already made the announcement of the National Coordinator and the State Commission, but we have, of course, already focused on this issue in specific areas. I refer to discrimination on the housing market, discrimination on the part of the police and the willingness to report and discrimination on the labour market. The Cabinet and several portfolio holders within the Cabinet are taking measures to combat these forms of discrimination. I am talking about my own portfolio of BZK, the Secretary of State of SZW is taking action against discrimination in the labour market, which is now the Minister of SZW, because there is no longer a State Secretary, and my colleagues from OCW and VWS are taking measures to promote the emancipation of lhbti and people with disabilities. They have a particular programme called "Unlimited participation!'. This includes many measures to combat discrimination, starting with, for example, education in schools on sexual diversity and on the standard of accessibility. A programme has been launched to increase the safety of Ihbti's, OCW and JenV's Safety LGBTI Action Plan together, including the police. All that has to go on. It's always gonna take attention. In conjunction with the additions made by the National Coordinator, the State Commission and the strengthening of municipal anti-discrimination agencies, it is now getting the attention it needs. I hope that the outcome of the inquiry initiated by this Chamber will also contribute to this. To be honest, that's what I'm expecting. There's still a world to win, we just have to be honest about that. It has to be better and it can be better. This cabinet will simply continue to do so, whether it is outgoing or not, and I hope that the next cabinet will continue to do so in the same way. Then there was a question about the ratification of the optional protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Mrs Karimi and Mr Dittrich asked. I started by saying that we wholeheartedly support this initiative legislative proposal to amend the constitution. The fact that the optional protocol has not yet been ratified does not alter that at all. It has its own dynamics. I think both Chambers have been informed about this. My colleague for Medical Care and colleague for Foreign Affairs are working on this. They informed me that they would send a letter to both chambers before the elections on 17 March on the state of ratification of that optional protocol. Mr. Chairman. That is what I hope I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u79	I thank the Minister for the answers, but I remain disappointed by the latter. Of course, the optional protocol is not yesterday's. It's been going on for years. As I argued in my first term, we hear from the cabinet every time: it's complex, it's complicated, we'll get back to that. But nothing's gonna happen. In order to give credible form and substance to the constitutional change that we support today, it is important that the Protocol is signed and offered for ratification. It's not even signed. The urgent question is: Minister, can you let the Chamber know the timetable for signing the protocol?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u80	I can explain in detail once again what the issue is about the optional protocols in the broad and the evaluation that is taking place at UN level and which has also been delayed, but I do not think that Mrs Karimi will be happy about this. If I listen to her carefully, she's not waiting for that, but she just wants to know what's going on with the signature. I have already promised this Chamber that my colleagues will send a letter on this before the Lower House elections. I will pass on Mrs Karimi's appeal to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u81	Can the Minister promise that at least the previous commitment made to this Chamber four years ago will be respected, namely that the cabinet will come up with a timetable for ratification? So no explanation that it's complex and complicated. No, that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u82	If that is the commitment, then I think it is right that the cabinet should return to that commitment, indicating the timetable. I understand that there has been a delay in a somewhat broader issue surrounding the ratification of the optional protocols at the UN. That also means that it doesn't happen at a pace. I will take this back and let my colleagues know that clarity is expected on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u83	Thank you, Minister. Before we begin the second term of office, I shall, on request, suspend the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u84	We are now at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dittrich. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the colleagues for letting me lead the way. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to leave soon because of obligations elsewhere. First of all, many thanks to the initiators, and of course also the Minister for the Interior, for their comprehensive and thorough response. All the questions I asked on behalf of the D66 Group in the first term have been adequately answered. So my second term can be very short. I can inform you that the D66 Group will vote in full and wholeheartedly in favour of the legislative proposal in the vote we have after this debate and will look forward to reopening the debate with the initiators and the Minister at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Karimi from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I congratulate Senator Baljeu on his maiden speech, of course. All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground is not allowed. Not only is every Dutchman, in the sense of holders of a Dutch passport, as the PVV wants, equal before the law. No, all who are in the Netherlands, regardless of their nationality, are treated equally. Listening to today's debate, I wondered why a political party would want to abolish this article. Why does anyone want to delete the article that guarantees equal treatment and a ban on discrimination as a standard in our society? To be able to discriminate properly? To humiliate, exclude or trample someone who has another faith, another political mind, another race, or has sexual orientation? To sow hatred under the guise of freedom of speech? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks, the political movement in which I have proudly found a political haunt in this beautiful country, will always, everywhere and with all possible democratic and constitutional means, oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u88	Mrs Karimi is full of hate-sowing and I know what she is getting at, just because we made the point that there would be a better wording for Article 1 of the Constitution. If you are already so touchy about an adaptation of an important constitutional principle that has applied for two centuries until 1989, GroenLinks is a little bit off track. I would like to put a question to Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks. GroenLinks has a candidate on the Dutch parliament list who is involved in the Muslim Brotherhood. The Muslim Brotherhood honors the Islamic doctrine of law, the Sharia. The Muslim Brotherhood is full of discrimination against homosexuals and their terrible treatment. How can Mrs Karimi look at herself in the mirror when she makes such accusations in our direction and in the meantime just sit on her lap at the Muslim Brotherhood?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u89	That is a repetition of moves and outside the order of this debate, so I am not going to go into that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u90	If Mrs Karimi thinks it is out of order, then her own remark would also be entirely out of order in this debate. If you are talking about discrimination and everything related to it, can you not seek cooperation with people involved in the Muslim Brotherhood with dry eyes? That's completely inexplicable, isn't it? Or don't you take yourself seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u91	Mr Van Hattem continues to make accusations and make accusations that have not been proven in any way. I do not think that this debate is suitable for that. What I heard Mr Van Hattem say over and over again this morning was: first of all, abolish Article 1 of the Constitution and replace it with the following: 'Every Dutch person is treated equally'. There is therefore discrimination at the outset. It's not about all residents, including foreigners. No, it's all Dutch. That's a restriction right from the start. That is discrimination at the outset. That is what I am referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u92	Mr. Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u93	Yeah, finally. I can only conclude that Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks is talking to me and that Mrs Karimi is therefore simply lying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u94	I think we've heard that all day today. It has also ended up in the Acts. I am happy when Mr Van Hattem says: no, that was not my intention. I would say that is the profit of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u95	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u96	Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators and the Minister for their answers. We have already found this bill a good initiative and, in response to the answers, we have become even more convinced of the usefulness and need of increasing awareness, standards and better legal protection of people who are already discriminated against on the basis of their sexual orientation and disability. We shall therefore vote in favour. I referred to it in my first term: it is about how the executive will now ratify that standard. Mr. Chairman. As regards the change of the AWGB, the Minister said: we need to see if we can continue to do so. This Chamber, for example, has not declared this bill controversial. If I listen carefully to the debate, it will reach a large majority. So I would say: go ahead with your work, missionary or not. You have our support for this. Second. Relating policies remain crucial. It is a very important step to continuously focus on awareness and empowerment, but also on combating discrimination. Finally. I remain disappointed with the answer on the optional protocol, but I am giving the Minister another chance. In anticipation of the letter, I hope that we can get an answer in which a timetable is given and also a clear commitment to sign the protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u97	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Koole, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate Mr Baljeu on his maiden speech. I thank the authors and the Minister for the answers. If I have not said it in the first term, the Labour Party will vote wholeheartedly in favour of this law. However, I have a few comments to make. It concerns Article 1 of the Constitution. Of course, all articles are the same, but this is the first article. I mentioned it in my speech: when you ask people what is in the Constitution, they come up with no discrimination and equality for everyone. Apparently, the order of the articles corresponds a bit to what people spontaneously come up with when you ask them what the Dutch Constitution stands for. Freedom is right behind that, I must say. That is also very important for Dutch people. It's alive. The Constitution is alive; not the literal text, but the story of the Constitution. Those first sentences are therefore also very important, because they tell the story: all who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. The addition of two additional non-discrimination grounds has an important symbolic value for our party, which is often said here. This is not 'only symbolic', but an important symbolic value, in addition to the substantive value of the addition, of course. It's the story of the Constitution you want to tell; I told you. It is the symbolic value of the story: who do we want to be? What do we want to tell the world about who we are? And, above all, the signal to those involved, the disabled and those with a certain sexual orientation, of recognition and recognition. As a result, it also contributes to raising awareness among the population. I have one more question for both the Minister and the proposers on the grounds not explicitly stated. Does it matter now? At some point it was said: ultimately it depends on the circumstances. I didn't think that was the most powerful answer. Can anyone, the minister or one of the petitioners, say that it does not matter that those grounds are not included? So it's important that those two grounds get into it now, but this doesn't mean that discrimination on other grounds, which aren't explicitly in it, would be tolerated a little easier. I think there should be a little more clarity on this point. In this case, the story we are telling through the Constitution is aimed at new groups, specifically the disabled and the people with a certain sexual orientation, who belong to it like all other people. I think it's very good that this is included. But it will be hard work to change it in practice. The Minister has made a number of moves on how it is already being worked on and she has also said that much still needs to be done. That is also the view of the PvdA Group. It is very good that it is now in Article 1, but then the real work has to be continued in practice, because disabled people and people with any sexual orientation are just part of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u99	Thank you, Mr Koole. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the initiators and the minister. They have provided a more detailed justification for the need and the sufficiently crystallised discussion, by adding the increase in awareness, setting a standard and a possible input for lower legislation, a kind of legal beacon. The vague concepts of "necessity" and "crystallised discussion" have now been clarified. The criteria for the addition of the "disability" and "sexual orientation" categories agree with 50PLUS as well as the proposers. Our only concern was and is that groups not explicitly mentioned in Article 1 of the Constitution could experience a certain exclusion. They could think: why these categories and not my category? That was the starting point for the contribution of 50PLUS. I have already stressed the fact that 50PLUS warmly embraces non-discrimination grounds and disability and sexual orientation. My group is pleased that the initiators, in this case Mrs Bergkamp, also claim that no legal distinction is made between the named and the unnamed grounds in Article 1. This has also been explicitly confirmed by the Minister. This is always important for the Acts, so it is clear to the unnamed categories that discrimination against them is weighted in the same way as discrimination against the specific categories listed. I would like to refer to Mr Koole's remarks. Mr. Chairman. Just a brief word on the age ban on discrimination. Personally, I found the opinion of the Council of State to be rather lean in this area. However, as has already been said, this amendment is not currently in this Chamber. Of course, these are not rights linked to a certain age, such as voting rights or the right to study funding. The point is that, in equal cases, individuals are treated equally and not unequally purely on the basis of their age. The most obvious thing is that in the labour market, for example. The age discrimination that takes place there is just as reprehensible as discrimination against persons with disabilities or because of their sexual orientation. It's been noted. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS will also vote in favour of the bill because of the careful and comprehensive explanations and answers given by the authors to the questions asked, as will the Dutch Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u101	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mr Van der Burg, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u102	Thank you to the Minister and the authors for their contributions to the debate and to my colleagues. The best statement today came from my CDA colleague Rombouts: show me your constitution and I know what kind of country you live in. It is therefore a good thing that we are going to adopt this constitutional amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u103	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u104	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for the answers. When I look back at the debate, I find that we are really talking about something. It's about very fundamental things: why is this land or this house built as it is built? I have one very brief comment. I understand from the book on the First Chamber during the war that the President also has the right to delete words from a debate. I would like to propose that the last words that Mr Van Hattem added to Mr Karimi be deleted. Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the legal value and also about the symbolic value. One of my philosophical teachers was the legal philosopher Dooyeweerd from Amsterdam. In such a case, when you talked about such a law, he always stressed that it was the first one to have a legal value. He emphasized that. He said, "That's the character of the law." At the same time he said: a law also has a moral value, a symbolic value and a social value. In that respect, I am pleased that words such as'symbolic value' and those other types of values have emerged here. In particular, I would like to ask the Minister another question. I myself stressed in my first term that these values have a certain normality for us. If they are in the Constitution, then it has significance for politics and democracy. Then I'd just say that's the moral value. Maybe the Minister can respond from her position. Mr. Chairman. When I first read the arguments for the various grounds in the Constitution, I thought for a moment: there might be something in it to avoid specifying those grounds and to keep a very simple constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u105	I had Mr Verkerk finish his lecture in moral philosophy. I'd like to remind him of something. We have established certain rules here. I assume that Mr Verkerk also believes that these rules should be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u106	I'd like you to keep going and tell me what I wouldn't have respected. Then I can also answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u107	I think it is true that, even from 2001, for a little over twenty years, it is no longer possible to have documents deleted from the Acts, the body list, as it was mentioned. I think it was abolished 20 years ago. So what you are proposing cannot be done anyway, but apart from that we must ask ourselves the question: is it desirable for words to be deleted from the Acts here? We have our right to freedom of expression here, which is also a constitutional right. Then how do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u108	If the President does not have this right, I assume he will not accept my request. The second point is that I have no comment on the content of your statement, not for the time being. But the language you used, as well as the moral value behind it, by the way, I do not find the First Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u109	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u110	When someone puts words in my mouth, I think it should just be established that someone is lying like hell. That is a clear statement. I'm not just gonna sit here and put words in my mouth or twist things. That is what I stand for, and I want to have clearly contradicted it in that way, especially if it has happened repeatedly. Maybe you could think about that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u111	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u112	Then I'm just gonna keep going. No, I was done with my class, by the way. I shall now turn to the point of those additions, or the specification of the grounds. At first I thought: how wonderful is it when it just says that very simple formulation, because then it has the power of simplicity. To say something about philosophy: that has a very high value within philosophy. But I've been converted, if I may say so. This report by the Commission has played a major role in this respect. I have read that report, being a non-lawyer, two to three times, and I have also really tried to understand: what exactly is happening here? I've been trying to experience that, too. From this point of view, I find it difficult for the SGP and the PVV to argue for a very short wording, precisely because of the Commission's arguments for legal effects. Then it is about the first legal effect and the second, but certainly also the third. It is precisely because we live in a country with minorities that I think it is important for all parties and all the grassroots that we radiate, and that is also the moral point that people with disabilities and other sexual orientations are valuable and that their rights should and should be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u113	How far along are you, Mr. Verkerk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u114	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u115	Mr Verkerk is now quoting minorities and people with disabilities whose rights must be protected. I am curious to see how Mr Verkerk is looking at the registered example that I outlined in the first term. This was about someone with a disability who has to be on a waiting list for years for an adapted home, which in the meantime cannot take a shower and therefore has to lead an inhuman life and hear from the housing foundation and the authorities: put him outside under the garden hose. That is unacceptable. In the meantime, status holders get a home gift here with priority, advanced by the government if necessary. Is this a form of discrimination, and you would also say that it is unacceptable for people with disabilities to be discriminated against in relation to status holders in the allocation of housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u116	First of all, let me deal with the first point, the case you mention. I would like to answer that if I know the case very well. Furthermore, it is important that the Commission's report on legal effects should read that which is contained in the Constitution has a horizontal effect. So it also invites lower legislators to come to good legislation. As far as I am concerned, I am not going to go into the other point you mentioned, because that is not what the debate is about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u117	I have to say, then, that Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union is only trying to maintain moral philosophy here. When it comes to practical matters, the practical operation for our Dutch citizens, how we should deal with the consequences of such laws and the interpretation of the Constitution, he says: yes, it is not about that; that ordinary citizen does not matter. If it is the moral philosophy of the Christian Union that the ordinary citizen does not count, then I think we have a very difficult discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u118	Let me then give one answer on the basis of the Constitution. Article 1 deals with all people who are in the Netherlands. They have a right to be treated equally. In doing so, I gave a full answer to what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u119	I would just like to say before the Acts and the clarity that what the SGP has argued in the House of Representatives, namely a shorter Article 1, is something different from what the PVV has proposed, namely to get it out in a new wording. Mr Bishop said: "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination is not allowed." That was the shortest wording that indicates everything that is now referred to by the broader article. For the sake of clarity, it is not a question of any attempt by the SGP to reverse this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u120	Thank you very much for this addition. When I mentioned them both, I pointed to the point of shortening. I fully agree that your background and the way you defend it is quite different from that of the PVV. I'm gonna drop this for a second. I come to my final point. At the end of my first term, I went into the connection. When I see how the contradictions in society are increasing, I think that this connection is very important in our society, especially in politics. Eventually, you may also read Article 1 as a call to connection. Something only happens when people meet. Nothing happens when you talk about other people. I have also mentioned the word of Levinas, a philosopher. Mr. Van Hattum, you may not have anything to do with it, but that's not my point at all. Levinas says: When you look people in the face, you see their fears, their emotions, their pain and their grief. That's what you see when you look in the face of people who have disabilities or other sexual orientation. They have a history behind them of pain, exclusion and grief. In that respect, I also see Article 1 as an assignment for myself to have relationships with people who are not the same as me; if I may put it this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I call Mr Van Hattem of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Baljeu for his maiden speech. Congratulations to the Labour Party for their 75th anniversary. In the time of the good old Drees that was a happy fact. Congratulations to the VVD, which emerged a little less than two years later. And, of course, congratulations to the President. Perhaps Mr De Vries too. I think we've had everyone's congratulations again today. Let me now turn to the issue of the debate on the Constitution. We've just heard extensive reactions and had some serious interruptions. There have been a number of points that I would like to reflect on. It is about adapting Article 1 of the Constitution. I would like to make it quite clear that the current wording of the principle of equality does not need to be carved into stone; it can be adapted. That is what is happening today. So all these accusations to the PVV Group, namely that we are doing something that is not constitutional, are totally unjustified. The PVV states that the law must be equal for all: the principle of equality. Then all the good guys came out here screaming that that would be discrimination. Well, almost 20 years after the murder of Pim Fortuyn, the left is still unabated. They also keep looking away from the danger of Islam. On the contrary, the principle of equality, an important Western value, is expressly absent from the Islamic doctrine of justice. A Muslim who loses Islam is not treated as an equal but as a pariah who has to fear for his life. And especially those Muslims deserve protection. Every Muslim must be able to leave Islam and, for example, openly confess a homosexual or other sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u123	Mr Van Hattem says that everyone must be treated equally. Does he also say that everyone in the Netherlands, as the first sentence of Article 1 now states, should be treated equally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u124	The equality of all before the law is without respect for the person. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u125	This is not limited to Dutch people in the Netherlands, but that is true for everyone in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u126	This is indeed the case under the current wording, but I would like to say the following. We have also said in the House of Representatives that every Dutchman is equal before the law. You can also include foreign law as in the older versions of this article. But that is a discussion that must first and foremost be held on the other side before we reach such a point. At the moment, everyone is basically equal before the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u127	Mr. Koole, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u128	Mr Van Hattem says that non-Dutch people in the Netherlands may be treated differently than the Dutch in the Netherlands. If he confirms that, it would be contrary to any rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u129	No, you're putting words in my mouth that don't add up. I did not say that people who are not Dutch should be treated differently. All I said was that every Dutchman is the same before the law. If there is a different nationality or certain aspects of foreign law, this can be regulated in a different way. But before the law, every Dutchman is equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u130	Did you just say "good-bye"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u131	If that's what you're talking about, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u132	You also said that you should not put words in my mouth. Did you just say "good-bye"? And what's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u133	Those are the left-wing parties who have been here all afternoon to put words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u134	I often think to my colleague Van Hattem: good, it's out again, pants up, washing hands and then we can talk nicely again. That enormous urge of colleague Van Hattem to put away those who disagree with him... I really wonder what ever went wrong in Alexander van Hattem's life, which is how he has to react. Here's what it's about. And now let him be a big boy, really a big boy. The PVV wants to get rid of Article 1. I'm not just saying that here, but that's also on the PVV website. That's where you can read it. Article 1 must be removed, because that is a commandment and a ban. We don't need that. There must be something about the Jewish-Christian roots of our society. Mr Schalk once pointed out to him what that would not be. But that's what the PVV program says. Don't walk away from that. Be a man and say: yes, that is the PVV, we want to get rid of Article 1 and we also want to get rid of the similar provision in the ECHR. If you say that, you're a guy. Don't try to turn away and don't come up with "bug meutes" and "the left this and the left that." Take your own responsibility and say also outside the Chamber here: the PVV is really convinced that we should get rid of Article 1 of that commandment and ban, and of similar provisions. Then you're a guy. Why don't you just go ahead and tell me the truth and tell me why you want me to? You want that, because the PVV wants to put away and discriminate against a group of our people a priori. That is the conviction of the PVV. You can find that. That's the nice thing about democracy. But then you should just say that and not always come to the Muslims by a turn and what is going on. Just being a guy and telling me what you really want!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u135	Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u136	I shall first give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u137	First of all, let me say something in the direction of Mr Kox. The word "mob" is still a pretty sympathetic term. It's a large group of people who come together in a certain way. We've had a whole group here on the interrupting microphone. You were one of the honorable members who came to express their displeasure and came up again and again with the same whim. You're doing that again now. You put words in my mouth again. Yes, Article 1 needs to be amended. We have said this very clearly. I've said that a million times this afternoon. And yes, we can get rid of the ECHR when it comes to it. But it's not like I want to discriminate. That is what Mr Kox's reasoning is all about. He says you want to discriminate. That's the steady straw that turns Mr. Kox off the SP. Speaking of discrimination, the SP was the party that already arrived in the early 1990s with stories about profiteers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u138	I'm gonna step in now anyway. I note, first of all, that you differ from the subject matter. You are therefore in breach of Rule 94 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, I note that you are doing insulting words to your colleagues here, and you are therefore in breach of Rule 94 (2). I would ask you not to do so. You are an excellent debater. You are perfectly capable of making your point without insulting your colleagues. You do. You're also out of the subject. I would ask you to return to the bill and not to offend your colleagues. Go ahead. I hear a number of voices from the Chamber, but first I will let Mr Van Hattem speak. After that, others will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u139	Mr President, I would have liked if you had also given Mrs Faber the floor. Anyway, I have the floor now. I would like to point out that Mr Kox has just been allowed to keep a whole tirade in my direction. Just now, Mr Raven has had a whole tirade and several others have. When I respond to that, I am then blamed for using indecent terms. I'd like to hear what term is inappropriate here and what would be offensive. If the word "mob" is offensive here, then I think we're having another discussion here. I have not been able to see that there is an explicit insult here and certainly not the intention of insulting one of my colleagues. On the other hand, I have been accused of discrimination and of other things which are actually very serious. So if I'm not allowed to respond to that, then I think we have a very bad debate. And if it were already out of order, then you should have already explained what Mr Kox said out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u140	I've had you both pronounced, but if you're going to accuse your colleagues of lying, I don't think that's courteous and inappropriate in this room. So I kindly ask you not to. That's all I've done. And I'll come back to the previous point. The deletion clause was removed from the Rules of Procedure in 1983, so nothing has been deleted from what has been said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u141	Mr President, thank you for doing what you are doing. You're just as strict and tell me how things are going here, because we've been flying out of the bend for the last few minutes. You rightly pointed out two things. I would like to add a third thing; I walked to the microphone for that. The third thing is that we need to speak through the President. They have to be across the street. Speaking through the chairman actually means, if you consider it very formal, that you always speak in the third person: Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u142	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u143	It just went... Mr. Chairman, I'm about to fall into the trap myself. Mr. Chairman. So we should actually say, "Dear President. Mr Van Hattem..." We shouldn't be talking about "you" or "be a man." Neither anyone from the PVV nor anyone from the SP should.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u144	That's right. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know Mr Van Hattem is fine on his own, but I think I should get out of my chair now. Because I have to say that on a subject like today's, I have to observe that there are no equal monks, equal hoods. Mr. Raven can tell us all about the PVV, because I think freedom of speech is a very good thing. So Mr Raven can tell me all kinds of things about the PVV, but that was completely out of the order of the debate. Anyway, again, the PVV can take a hit. But if Mr. Van Hattem comes up with certain statements, he will be called to order. I think that should apply: equal monks, equal hoods, especially in a debate like this. I mean, everybody's equal. Mr Van Hattem also says: we do not want to delete Article 1 at all, but we want to change it; but we want it so that everyone is equal before the law. And then I see that here, in our house, which is always so sweetly called the "chambre de réflexion" is judged in different ways. I think I should say that here anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u146	Thank you. Go ahead, Mr. Van Hattem. You have two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the observation made by Mrs Faber. Mr. Chairman. The rule of law is important. The PVV Group is also extremely constitutional by saying that Article 1 and its scope can simply be adapted. I'd like to quote a quote on the state of law. "If we already declare people guilty in the Netherlands while they have just been charged, it is time for me to stand up for the Dutch rule of law." Thus the then alderman of Geleen Raven, when he was drunk by the police. Then, indeed, you do not use ME, and do not abuse your Article 1 of the Constitution to advocate it, just to give an example. Mr. Chairman. I come to the points advocated by the initiators. We had an extensive exchange of views on why it would be of added value to include these categories in the Constitution. The PVV Group is really not convinced that this brings some added value in a practical sense. I have just noticed in the interrupting debate with Mr Verkerk that very little can actually be said about what this adds in practice for people with different sexual orientations or for people with disabilities. It is already clearly regulated in laws, in treaties, in case law. So this bill offers very little perspective. I would say that Article 1 of the Constitution should not, as the initiators say, be a flag on a ship. No, the Constitution is the flag we have. There's not one article out of it that has a specific extra flag on the ship. No, the State's ship is based on the Constitution. And we just have to keep doing it on that. We should not highlight one article there if that would be a flag. In short, the PVV Group will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u148	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Rombouts of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u149	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the authors for their competent and sympathetic answers to our questions. Happiness radiates from the faces, so they must already feel the rash. I would like to say to the Minister: thank you, thank you, thank you for the competent answer. I didn't like it that much this time, but that's probably because I'm not satisfied with the answer. I'm kidding. More seriously, could this minister perhaps reconsider whether she would like to tell her grandchildren in her after-hours, in missionary status, about those two aspects that I mentioned? I have taken very good note of all that she has already done. Do not investigate or visualize, no, promote that it actually happens decisively. Two, and you have hardly gone into that: consider whether there is any reason to punish this violence more severely, not only because there is not only beating, but also because there is discrimination. In fact, that's a pile-up of business. Such a pervert, think of the late Hans de Boer, Steven van Eijck, who did that kind of thing for the Dutch government. Finally, Mr President. The word "symbolical" has been mentioned very often here today. Actually, we're all not happy about that. I do not know the solution either, but I do not think that a constitution and this proposal is symbolic. That's a degraded word, isn't it? In my opinion, it's of iconic value. Our Constitution lays down a number of icons, on which we must all create public value. The government every day, but in the Constitution we anchor the most important core values of our rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u150	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I call Mr Schalk of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start by mentioning the good things we've been through today. That is, for example, the certainty with which both the proposers and the minister have expressed their views on the scope of what is ahead. What is criminal is still criminal and what the proposers are trying to do is to combat discrimination as much as possible. Of course, I do have a few more questions. I would very much like to ask Mrs Bergkamp whether she would like to clarify the fact that there can and may be room for distinction if this is an essential and legitimate professional requirement. Mrs van den Hul has made very clear statements as to why age should not be included. I've picked that up mainly because it can sometimes be functional. But what about color? That seems very complicated to me. 'Cause that's one of those characters you can't beat. Black Lives Matter also has a bit of constitutional maturity, if I could rely on that, because I'm a little critical about that, so I have to be careful with that. But I just want to mention it and ask the question again. Mrs Özütok has not answered my question very clearly about unborn children. I can tell by her body language that that's gonna happen. She would come back to it in the second term; I am very curious. That brings me to a few questions and a motion. Is it an unborn child about a child, so a human being? If this human being can get a name in the Basic Registration Persons, shouldn't it be given more protection? Can the Minister confirm what I have argued, namely that children who die or are killed in the mother's womb are indeed included in that basic registration? I refer to the answers to questions in the Lower House, meeting year 2018-2019, number 3439. And a child with a disability can therefore now be aborted. Isn't that discrimination? That's my last question. To make that clear, this motion. The: Mr Schalk and Mr Van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a broad sense of non-discrimination on grounds of disability;]] [[noting that prenatal screening leads to abortions of children with disabilities;]] [[Whereas the right to include the name of aborted and lifeless children in the Basic Registration Persons underlines the protection of their human dignity;]] [[considers that disability-based abortion discriminates against children without disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the prevention of abortion on grounds of disability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32411-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u152	Isaac's I, a nice name. Mr President, thank you. I must state at the end of my second term that the SGP will not support this bill. Not because discrimination should not be countered; I think I have made the intentions of my party and of me personally clear. I hope, however, that the motion I tabled will lead to the fight against any form of discrimination. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u153	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mrs Teunissen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I should like to congratulate Mr Baljeu on his maiden speech. I found the answers of the proposers and the Minister very convincing and thorough. I also found the answer to the question of why these groups should be included, to my question about the limitative nature, convincing. Handicap and sexual orientation are logical in terms of the nature and history of the legislation, specifically with regard to these groups. And making it explicit is also an important step towards an inclusive society. We just heard about the symbolic value. It may be the connotation, but my group believes that this is very important. Symbols are part of the soul of society, and in that sense we also see this as an important symbolic step. But it also, as we have heard, has an important social significance through awareness. And it also has an important legal significance, because it can lead to additional legal protection. And these grounds, which have been incorporated into legislation for a long time, are now enshrined in a law that is above all laws, and that, as far as we are concerned, leads us to a next chapter in the fight against discrimination. However, we are far from there, and we must now, above all, give these grounds more meaning in practice. Because discrimination, discrimination and exclusion are the order of the day. Mr. Chairman. I wish the initiators every success in continuing this serious process. The Animal Party wholeheartedly supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u155	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Then I give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u156	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the congratulations to the initiators, to Mr Baljeu for his maiden speech and to the chairman and others who are having their birthday today. Mr. Chairman. I had made two appeals at the end of my speech, which was not really addressed in the reply. I had called on the Minister to break the vicious procedural circle and adapt legal procedures to protect victims of discrimination and to punish perpetrators more quickly. I do not have the impression that I have heard anything about this. Secondly, I had challenged the initiators to draw up, as soon as possible, a follow-up initiative law to criminalise discrimination, including on grounds of disability and sexual orientation, with a direct minimum prison sentence of several years and substantial compensation for the victims. I understood from Mr Dittrich that the word'minimum' could lead to discussion, but you may remove that. My challenge to the initiators is to pay attention to this in the future. I also said that discrimination does not belong in a legal society. The OSF will support any initiative aimed at combating this behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Finally, Mr Kox has the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that Mr Baljeu has been able to deliver his maiden speech and not on an everyday subject, but on a very special subject. Congratulations for that. I would also particularly like to thank the Minister and the defenders of the bill. I believe that this long debate has made it convincingly clear that this is a responsible addition to this very important article in our Constitution. I am not going to discuss constitutional maturity, because that is just a figment that has been given a certain status. I have a lot of feelings for what Mr Koole says about it. If you have such a procedure, it has to be ripe, otherwise it won't get much further. After all, it's a whole process. I believe that the authors, supported by the Minister, have made it clear that this is a responsible addition, because it concerns large groups of people who are long and often still lagging behind on the basis of the situation in which they find themselves. It is very good that we say that by this addition the people involved know and are recognized. In this context, I would also like to thank those people and organisations who have worked so long to recognise that they are no less because they are different. It is very nice that we can see that a whole development has already been made in this society. In 1983, colleagues said at the time that homosexuality should be included. That was a bridge too far back then. I couldn't do that at the time. That doesn't mean it was reasonable to discriminate against gay people back then. It couldn't have been done then. We should be pleased that there is now such a broad majority in this Chamber to include it now. It's been a long fight. That is why I believe that this debate requires respect. I remember in Tilburg 30 years ago Pink Monday was conceived. Henk Krol and someone else from the Gaykrant were there. Then in Tilburg you got that phenomenon that ordinary people were going to look at those weird people who just walked hand in hand there, girls with girls, boys with boys, old men with old men, young women with some older women. After a few years, everyone realized they look like normal people, they look like ordinary people. And in the meantime it has become a popular festival, where everyone, regardless of his sexual orientation, experiences a beautiful, beautiful and crowded Monday at the Tilburg fair. Gradually, through the actions that were carried out then, we have achieved that people understand that being otherwise has nothing to do with being less. That is why such a debate, to which politics has made an important contribution, fits in with respect for the fact that people who were disadvantaged because of their disability or a sexual orientation other than mainstream, who fought in times when it was very difficult and very brave. I'll take my hat off for that. Congratulations again to the authors. Let's go to round two!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u159	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Initiators and Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? I understand that Mrs Özütok will be the first to speak. Or Mrs. Bergkamp first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u160	Mr. Chairman. We would like to reply briefly to all three questions. Mrs Özütok will say the final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u161	In what order do you wish to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u162	I am first, then Mrs Van den Hul and then Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u163	Mrs. Bergkamp, the cathedral is coming to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked to me. First of all by the PvdA. That was about the value of land that wasn't mentioned. Let me confirm once again that not explicitly stated grounds are no less important than those mentioned. Discrimination must not be allowed, not even on the grounds not mentioned. The difference is that these grounds are suspicious grounds in advance, where there is a greater presumption of discrimination. By adding two grounds, none of the grounds, whatever, loses meaning. I think the Minister will be able to confirm that later. Mr Raven has asked twice whether we are prepared to come up with a new initiative law. We are already very happy when this reading comes to a successful conclusion. Then we are going to do the second reading with great enthusiasm. But who knows? We continue to look critically at all developments. It's one of the best things for a Member of Parliament to come up with an initiative law. We have played well with each other, and that offers confidence and hope for the future. But thank you for the encouragement. I would like to add my thanks to those civil society organisations that have been fighting for this for a very long time. Without their support and participation, we wouldn't have succeeded. For example, we think of Elke(in), who works for people with disabilities and chronically ill and also for the COC. It's important to mention them. Mr Schalk of the SGP has asked to what extent having a certain sexual orientation can be an essential and determining professional requirement as provided for in equal treatment legislation. Let me be clear about that. No, you can't. The General Law on Equal Treatment states that only sex and in some cases race are essential and determining professional requirements. In the case of race, for example, this applies to the selection of certain actors. In gender, for example, these are professions where there is a little bit of a "how can I express this neatly', i.e. there is physical contact, for example personal caregivers, which allows you to select sex in a sauna. A limited list of excluded professions is included in the Decision on equal treatment and also in the Decision on occupational activities for which sex may determine. In addition, in certain cases the political conviction can be an essential and determining requirement for a profession. Think of political functions. I hope that I have been able to answer the questions adequately in this way. So there are possibilities on the basis of gender. To a limited extent there are for variety, but not for the other grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u165	I referred to the letter from the minister we received. On page 3 there is an example of a horizontal legal relationship to which the AWGB applies: according to the AWGB, an institution on a religious or philosophical basis "may, in respect of persons who work for it, make a distinction on the basis of religion, belief or political orientation, to the extent that these characteristics constitute, by reason of the nature of the specific professional activity concerned or the context in which it is exercised, an essential, legitimate and justified professional requirement, in view of the foundation of the institution." My question is whether the authors are at least in agreement on this. If you answer that positively, this question has been answered very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u166	I think that's a fair question. You can make a distinction when it comes to political orientation in selecting a political party. You just can't make a distinction on the grounds of sexual orientation. Your question was to what extent you can select based on sexual orientation, and to what extent that is an essential and determining professional requirement. That is not the case. It is true that there is a possibility of making a distinction on other grounds, such as the professional requirement relating to political orientation. I'm happy with the question, because I can tighten this up a little bit. Perhaps the Minister would also like to respond in the affirmative later. Mr. Chairman. That was the end of my input. There is another question to be answered by Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u167	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The concept of race, as already mentioned in Article 1 of the Constitution, I say in reply to the question put by Mr Schalk, has its effects in the AWGB and in criminal law, among other things. As I have just said, albeit in a minor way, this is in line with the broader definition of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. It was closed in New York on March 7, 1966. That was almost 55 years ago. That Convention explicitly targets discrimination based on race, nationality or ethnic origin, but also on colour. I looked that up for you. So that's what that's supposed to mean. That is also the fundamental right that has already been secured in the current wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. Mrs Özütok has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Schalk indeed owed me an answer to his question as to when an unborn bearer of rights was. In general, an unborn person is not a carrier of rights and duties. This affects the limits of right-wing subjectivity. It is difficult to give a simple answer. It often depends on the circumstances and on the legal domain at stake. For example, Article 1 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states: "For the purposes of this Convention, a child shall mean any person under 18 years of age unless, under the law applicable to the child, the age of majority is reached earlier." The European Court of Human Rights does not consider the right to life in Article 2 ECHR to apply to unborn persons. That doesn't mean he's not protective. The Court leaves this to the national Member States. Article 2, Book 1 of the Civil Code provides that the child is to be regarded as being born as often as his interest progresses. The child is not yet a legal subject, but his interests must be taken into account. A stillborn child is supposed to have never existed before the law. In this sense, inclusion in the BRP has no legal effect or value. It's about recognizing the suffering of the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u171	I have become a little quiet from the remark that a stillborn child is deemed not to have existed. I'm afraid this is a blow to the face of a lot of people who have had a stillborn baby. That child is an essential element within a family. I know families that carry it years later. So I would really like to ask you to take this away or to nuance it in one way or another, otherwise we will get into a very wrong, emotional interpretation of what is very important for families. That's the first thing. The second is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u172	Perhaps Mrs Özütok can answer this question first and then ask your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u173	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u174	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u175	When it comes to emotions and the interpretation of a child, it can of course be very different per individual and per family. I don't want to take anything away from that. But the text I have just put forward is a legal translation of what is in the law. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De wet is zoals die is.]] We are discussing a law today, a constitutional change. So I think it is very logical that I repeat that text here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u176	I think we should be careful that we get involved in this discussion. I've already indicated how I feel about it. As far as I am concerned, that is enough at the moment. I'll just say that an abortion isn't allowed. There must be an emergency situation or something like that on the basis of the law. If you don't, it's just a criminal offence, because you apparently kill a human being. Secondly, perhaps the Minister will be able to clarify this in a moment, so that we have indicated that a child, even if stillborn, has died in the mother's womb, or even has been aborted, can be registered in the Basic Registration Persons. They are, in my humble opinion, people. If we see that together, there will be consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u177	And that question is addressed to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u178	Mrs Özütok may still want to respond to it, but I would like the Minister's reaction to it as well. It will undoubtedly do so because it will also give an appreciation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u179	Our initiative proposal is not about the abortion law. I think that's the confusion that's happening right now. Our bill has no legal consequence for embryo rights. That's what our discussion started about. So in that sense, I keep repeating that our law has no influence whatsoever on or changes the situation of embryo rights. The BRP registration, I keep saying, is about institutional recognition of suffering, with no legal value. I'm not saying that to make the pain even more painful. That recognition is very important to the parents. However, the fact that registration takes place in the BRP has no legal effect or value.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u180	The observation that parents' children will always be their children, I keep holding. I also understand that the initiative law does not address this situation. But this is the Chamber of Reflection. There are three things that must be taken into account: legality, feasibility and enforcement. This means that sometimes you also take the hit in society to make it clear what the consequences may be. That was why I brought this up in the written reply and also today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u181	For the sake of clarity, I would like to put this question to Mrs Özütok, but he may also address Mr Schalk. Am I right that Mrs Özütok literally read out Article 2 of Book 1 of the Civil Code: "The child of which a woman is pregnant is considered already born, so often his interest progresses. If it comes into the world, it's never supposed to exist." Mr Schalk was shocked, because it is the law. So I ask Mrs Özütok: you said nothing but what the law said?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u182	That's right. That's right, Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u183	Well, that's a short answer. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u184	Reading in context, the first sentence is also very explicit. Let us at least keep mentioning them forever. Indeed, if it is in the law, then it is there and then it is not Mrs Özütok's words. I didn't think it was Mrs Özütok's words either, because she was quoting. I had that figured out. I would like to see it in the breadth of that context, and I would also like to emphasise the compassion with parents, even if there is something in the law that hurts us all, perhaps even at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u185	Thank you. Mrs Özütok, do you still wish to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u186	Yes. Compassion with parents is certainly there, because in my family I have also experienced the situation of a deceased born child. That was someone who had gone before me, my brother. I never knew that. It wasn't until years later that I heard my mother call him in her prayers. That is why I say: what a child is depends very much on a culture, but also on a personal experience and how it is done in a family. Good thing you pointed us again on that empathic side of the motion. Mr. Chairman. I think we have now answered all the questions. That leaves me with a final word. Article 1 of the Constitution still has the same wording since the 1983 Constitutional Amendment. Article 1 really has a special meaning for many people. Not only because it is the first article of the Constitution, but because it reflects fundamental standards, namely that everyone is equal and that discrimination is prohibited in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u187	May I have some rest in the Chamber, Members? Your final word, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u188	It is extremely important for people who have been waiting a long time for constitutional recognition that we can, hopefully, take a real step here today. A constitutional change is a long-term process. If, as we fervently hope, the First Chamber agrees to the proposal, a second reading will follow. I would like to thank all the civil society organisations that have been working hard for years for this bill. Without their support and commitment, we could not have got this far. I would also like to thank our supporters once again. They have also played a very important role in bringing this bill forward, until now, in the Upper House. I would also like to thank the senators for their comments and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u189	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Let me see if the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations still wishes to speak. That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u190	Mr President, thank you. A few more questions have been asked to me. Of course, he'd like to answer. I would like to thank the initiators once again and congratulate Mrs Özütok for her last words. I would also like to thank the spokesmen, such as Mrs Karimi, who have expressed support for the outgoing cabinet to continue in full in this area as well. That's a nice backrest. Once again, I would like to say that the cabinet, through its colleague for Medical Care and the foreign minister, will return to the state of play regarding the optional protocol. I will convey the explicit desire to add a timetable to this. Mr Koole asked me to deal with the non-explicit grounds and the legal functioning of them. I would also like to mention Mr Verkerk's question. He himself had a reflection on the moral dimension of this, which I liked. It has to do with each other, as far as I'm concerned. On balance, I think that is also a bit of the abstinence of the debate here, which means that some of the grounds have been replicated in the Constitution, and that this also has a social signal and a social function. I think that is what Mr Verkerk was referring to when he talked about the moral side of this, because it is actually a kind of moral apple, which you do with each other. This also applies to the government itself, because the government is of course expected to set an example. That is something that has not gone quite well lately. See the whole, rightful, discussion about the childcare allowance and the report that has been written about it. So the cabinet and the ministries must also learn from this and take action to do so. I mentioned that in my first term. But it also has an effect as a review framework for the legislator, i.e. when making new legislation. The latter is, I think, also important if you include it in the debate on the childcare allowance. This has also been proposed in the debate and a motion has also been adopted in the House of Representatives in order to examine the draft legislation even more intensively on its discriminatory effect. So that's the second part. Finally, the non-mentioned grounds for the application by the court do not necessarily make any difference. They may be equally important or even, where appropriate, of greater importance on a case-by-case basis. The Court is concerned with the material gravity of the infringement of the principle of equality and not necessarily with the fact that it is referred to in Article 1 of the Constitution. So the judges have to weigh interests; they are not always the same, nor of the same heaviness. So you cannot say in advance in legislation what that is about, but it requires a judgment, and therefore confidence in the judge's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u191	I hear the Minister say that it may be important for the considerations made by the legislator. Then I'm wondering something. At the moment, as we have just exchanged in the debate, a great deal has already been laid down in existing legislation, but also, for example, in the ECHR and other treaties. Then I ask the Minister: what does this add? And can we not just say, if it is to be recorded in this way, "we will just step out of the ECHR," as we have just discussed in the discussion? Then this would also be a good solution. Can we get rid of that if this is recorded in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u192	No. I don't think that's a good idea. The debate is not about the ECHR; it is about our own Constitution. But I wouldn't like to conclude this. I do not agree with the PVV that we should have a very short and sober Article 1, because I believe that the PVV ultimately wants that, and I certainly do not agree with the PVV that it would help to get out of the ECHR. I think, on the contrary, that it is the combination of our own Constitution, our own legislation and the international treaties, which means that we, in this democratic rule of law, enjoy the protection that we also like. So once again, the cabinet has also fully supported the initiative proposal of the initiators. So I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u193	But then the Minister actually says: up until now it may not have been sufficiently taken into account. So what does it add to including this in the Constitution, while at the same time the Minister says: all these treaties and the ECHR are very important to us, and we cannot get rid of them? Then it is true that it should be settled at the moment, and it should not have to be added?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u194	I almost feel like we haven't been debating this point all day. I started my first term, a few hours ago, by saying that equal treatment, also on these grounds, is a characteristic of Dutch society. This applies both to the ground disability and to the ground sexual orientation. I have also said that this has been a discussion in our society for decades. It has not been allowed to discriminate on these grounds for decades. We are now ready to conclude that we would like to ensure this through an explicit inclusion in Article 1. Hence the support for the initiative proposal. I do not understand where Mr Van Hattem gets the idea that we would not have discussed it sufficiently. I hope that I have made it clear on behalf of the cabinet how we stand in this regard. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with Mr Koole's remarks. I think I've answered it now. I also answered Mr Verkerk's question. I've taken note of the fact that he's been converted. I don't have much experience with that myself, but I understand very well what he means. I, too, was impressed by the committee's report on the legal effects and the reasoning behind them. I am glad that this has also played a positive role for him. Then I come to Mr Rombouts. Since our last debate, I have always been very careful in replying to Mr Rombouts. He has not been able to convince me entirely that his comment here should lead to even more action on the part of the cabinet. Personally, of course, I am very motivated to act against discrimination and especially against violence against gays and lesbians, but I am also convinced that on that point, precisely by doing so... In itself, the inclusion in Article 1 will not have a direct effect on things that unfortunately occur on the streets, but the fact that we are speaking out here, that the legislator pronounces it, does indeed have the social function that Mr Koole mentioned. I wanted to underline this in the debate with Mr Koole. All the other actions I have just explained also contribute to this. It is also important, of course, to be aware of this every day in all sectors, in education, in the police force, as Mr Dietrich pointed out, and in fact in all parts of our society, to be very, very alert. That's what we have to stand for and fight for. I believe that my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, should answer the question as to whether this should be punished more severely. I myself am convinced that punishment is important, but it is only part of the whole approach. As I have just argued, it is also about education, education and all kinds of other issues that need to be addressed. So it's wider than that. But I will convey the wish, or suggestion. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Schalk and what has just been answered by Mrs Özütok, because I would like to comment on the motion. This is also addressed to the government. The motion concerns the position of an unborn child and possibly even of a disabled unborn child. First of all, I would like to underline what Mrs Özütok also said. She said that the purpose of the law amendment of the Law BRP is primarily to recognise the position of the parents. It is therefore a question of the right to recognise that there was a pregnancy. That's very important. That's what it was all about. It wasn't about anything else. The motion calls on the government to promote the prevention of abortion as a result of disability. I see that Mr Schalk, through another legislative amendment, namely that of the BRP and this constitutional revision, is sparking another debate. That's okay, of course. You can always do that. I think this is also a position we know from the SGP. So it's no surprise at all. I do wonder if this is the discussion we should be having here. The amendment of the BRP Act and the present amendment of the Constitution have also had some purpose to change the current legal and social situation surrounding abortion. So I do not share Mr Schalk's conclusion. I'm dissuading the motion. Finally. I've heard everyone, but I've heard a question from the OSF that had remained in the first term. The question was about promoting the punishment of perpetrators and protecting victims. Of course I agree with that. I said something about that to Mr Rombouts. It has to be done anyway. If we can do it faster, we have to do it faster. But I think it's especially important that victims feel invited to be heard. That's what we've been talking about today. It is also important that this should be done in an appropriate manner, either by declaration or by knocking on the door of the Human Rights College, as I have just said. They must be able to be helped, because we must not tolerate what is happening to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u195	I won't try to change the advisement of the motion. I don't think that's gonna work right away. I just want to ask a very simple question. Surely it is not wrong for laws to be linked and even interlocked? I think it is our right to look at this law in this way and also to bring in another law, so that we can check here for legality, enforcement and feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u196	I would like to repeat that to Mr Schalk. As I said, it is in any case his right to say so and to express this position, which is known as the SGP. It is also common to connect certain laws. However, I found it useful to make it clear that the examination of this initiative proposal, and also at the time the amendment of the BRP, was not intended by the legislator to change anything in relation to abortion. I think it's a fact that the SGP is different. (NL) Mr President, that brought me to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u197	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-11.u198	I shall close the debate and come to the conclusion of the initiative proposal. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill immediately today, in accordance with the previous agreement. Before that, I will suspend for a few minutes, so that you can discuss it in your group if you wish, and also in order to cut and ring the bell. I also propose that we vote on the motion tabled in two weeks' time.
