ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care. I actually wanted to give the floor to the applicant for this debate, Mr Wilders, but you are already at the interrupting microphone. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	These are not my questions, but my colleague Rob Jetten from D66 asked a whole series of good and critical questions about the reconstruction of vaccine policy last week following a reconstruction in the Volkskrant. I would really like those questions to be answered before this debate. I think that was Mr Jetten's intention, but he will correct me if he does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	That's actually an order proposal. When have these questions actually been tabled and how many questions are they? Let me take a look at Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I had indeed asked whether it was possible to answer those questions before the next Corona debate. I can imagine that the cabinet has done something different in the last few days in view of all the developments surrounding the vaccines. So I would very much like those questions to be answered for the next Corona debate. Then we can take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	We're gonna do our best. We did put all the energy on the letter you received last night. We're gonna do our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	Good. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	Madam President. Christmas 2020 will, in addition to being a family party in a very small circle because of corona, also go into history as the total decline of the Netherlands. Look at the inimitable mess with vaccine policy, like we're a third world country. This concerns the voluntary vaccination of people who want to, without compulsion or urge. How on earth is it possible that other countries are much further away when they are using exactly the same vaccine? Surely it cannot be understood that the Netherlands is the very last EU country where vaccination is started? From Germany to Poland, from Denmark to Hungary, thousands or even tens of thousands of people have already been vaccinated in Germany, even hundreds of thousands of people. In a country like Israel, that is even 1 million people, as in the United Kingdom. Those are not symbolic first shots, I say to Minister De Jonge. Those are serious numbers. Here in the Netherlands we have to start. Thousands of vaccines have been stored here for almost two weeks in freezer boxes in Oss instead of being used, and after ten months the cabinet still took care of corona on which target group is the first to qualify for a shot. Add new groups every day, other groups off. It's outrageous. That's not a strategy, it's chaos, total chaos. It's bad and too late prepared. Minister De Jonge was not ready, despite his promise to be. An embarrassment of the highest order. And it's fucking about something. Every week, people die and other people get infected. Our hospitals fear code black. A new, more contagious English variant of the virus has also entered the Netherlands. Our nursing homes have become death homes. In spite of exhaustion, care workers are working very hard or are becoming ill themselves. Older people are often locked up at home. Many of those who are vulnerable cannot wait for the protection of a vaccine, but only now come between March and October. Madam President. One or two weeks earlier or later vaccination can be the difference between life and death. We should have been the first fucking volunteer vaccinating instead of the last one. Starting earlier also means getting rid of that horrible lockdown once more. You, Mr. Secretary, are not the right man in the right place. I'm sorry to say this, but with this pandemic, we can't afford any more trouble, no lack of action, no chaos and therefore no Hugo de Jonge as minister. Let someone else do it, someone who can. We give up faith in you. Unfortunately, the Minister for Medical Care, Mrs Van Ark, has also made a mess of it. She too has failed. We have asked her here in every debate in the last year, at least from the moment she sits there, to arrange with the greatest urgency enough staff to prevent new scaling down of regular care for people who are ill. That didn't work. Mr. Chairman. It's all getting worse. Hospitals should now, as we read in the newspaper, go to court because they do not get extra ICU beds reimbursed. Can you believe that? It's only possible with a VVD minister, isn't it? This is the carelessness of the VVD at the top, which destroys our concern. Mr. Chairman. I also get sad and angry with all those people who get their regular care scaled down again, the lady with colon cancer or the gentleman with heart problems, whose appointment or surgery in the hospital is now cancelled and postponed again. What do you say to these people, Mr. Rutte? I'm sorry I haven't invested enough in sufficient care staff in recent years? I'm sorry, didn't we have hospitals and intensive care units and emergency rooms closed down for the last ten years? Mr. Chairman. I have an article here with me. It's too small to show it to everyone, but it's an article from NRC Handelsblad of October 13, 2018, from over two years ago. The headline, the title, of that article is "Choose on the ic: the cancer patient or the liver patient?" At that time, Mr Gommers of Erasmus-ic indicated that he had too few nurses in 2018, which meant that brain tumor surgery had to be delayed and dozens of beds and operating rooms were temporarily locked in academic hospitals throughout the Netherlands. Why? Because of a huge lack of care personnel. Mr. Rutte, it's really an incredible shame that you and your cabinet haven't done anything about it in the last two years. You didn't do anything about it. The PVV, Mrs Agema in the lead, has been arguing against the demolition and for additional investments in care for many years. But you, Mr Rutte, give tens of billions of euros to countries like Italy, Spain and Portugal, and do not, or at least not invest enough in additional staff for our own care. As a result, sick people are once again not given the care they desperately need. Madam President, I'm finishing up. This cabinet is completely lost. The Netherlands craves better care. The Netherlands craves more freedom. But this way and with this cabinet, it's not gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	I share with Mr Wilders that the sooner you start vaccination, the better it is to relieve the pressure on care and to scale down corona measures. But it was also Mr Wilders who said in December that he was still doubting whether he would be vaccinated. I was wondering if he'd made a choice by now. Is he gonna use the vaccine or not when it's his turn?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'd definitely have that done. I respect people who don't. Fortunately, a motion from me has been passed in this Chamber that says it must always be voluntary, so without compulsion and urge. I respect the people who decide not to do it, for whatever reason, but it is my choice, for myself, but also for others, to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	That's good. We should not do it with compulsion, but I think it would be good if we, as cabinet members and politicians who are working on the corona crisis every day, and therefore know a lot about these vaccines, were to express the confidence that it can be administered safely and that we can all contribute to stopping the corona virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	I have requested this debate with Mr Wilders, because what is happening in hospitals is terrible. People walk on their last legs and work day and night. I think Mr Wilders gave a good example of this. Operations are canceled. Care, both for people with corona and beyond, is under enormous pressure. And with that new infectious virus, the future doesn't look so bright either. So I also share the criticism of Wilders' cabinet. But if he says the cabinet is swarming, I'd like to ask him a question. On December 15, Wilders said here: the shops don't have to close. On December 15, Wilders said here: the catering industry doesn't have to close. Before that, he said that the 1.5 meter is not necessary. Perhaps it would be a good thing if he now said that it was necessary afterwards, however bad that is for the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	No. Of course I'm still against it. This is without prejudice to my criticism of vaccination policy. We've always been against the 1.5 meters, especially outside of it.You should always put "out" on it, because we think that the virus outside will lead to almost zero spread if you're not sitting on each other's laps and breathing 1 millimetre away from each other. I can't stop thinking that. And about closing the catering industry I have indicated here about every week that according to the Royal Horeca Netherlands the catering industry in a responsible way with bulkheads, screens and I know what could be open. The hospitality industry is being disproportionately hard hit. The same applies to the retail trade. So I still think we should. This is without prejudice to the fact that the cabinet has made a huge mess of vaccination policy. The cabinet did that too late. Every day that people who want to be vaccinated voluntarily, I say it again, is a day that fewer people die. People who have been vaccinated are not sure yet, but let's assume that they can also reduce the rate of spread of the disease and also reduce the level of infection. So every day without vaccination is a lost day. That's what you should do. That's my criticism. The cabinet's swarming there. It's starting too late. The Prime Minister has been completely absent for the past two weeks, and I think the Minister for Health has done badly and we should have done so. So my one criticism is without prejudice to the fact that I can also criticise the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	In fact, that criticism is justified. The cabinet is making a mess of those vaccinations. Those things are in the freezer while people get sick. It is a failure that ten different excuses have been used for that. They're just too late. And that is not the first time in this crisis. This is the case permanently in this crisis. It is precisely in view of the pandemic that we are facing, namely how many people are sick and how many people are contagious, that it is our job to question each other as leaders of political parties on the points of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	My question to you again. If we see where we stand now, do you not think that it is unfair for those entrepreneurs and how right it is that they should receive more support than they are now, that unfortunately it is necessary to take those measures for the catering and shops, because things have got so far out of hand? I think that consistency may also be called for from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u17	No. I am in favour of measures which I believe and believe are not just about injustice, but about the fact that they can substantially contribute to less infectiousness. That is why I also think that vaccination for a lot of people - only voluntarily and without compulsion and urge - can be not only a gateway to freedom, but also a fight against the continuation of the virus. I'm at five feet. Nor am I in favour of shutting down the catering industry, because that can be done in a responsible way, where there have also been trials or they have not even been allowed to take place by the cabinet, and I do not believe that this will lead to a huge spread. I also said in debates that, for example, opening up the retail trade, the shops, except for a few exceptions, did not lead to more passenger transport, whereas the cabinet used that as an argument not to do so, because then you got more movement. Those were all arguments that didn't add up. If you say to sectors like the catering industry and the retail trade that they should be locked up, when we cannot at all demonstrate that this leads to fewer infections and the cabinet itself is making a mess of things in other areas, I really cannot agree to that. Even in the event of a possible extension, we will still feel that this is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The whole of Europe is pricking, but this minister is trying. Of course, we've seen it happen before. We saw it with the personal protective equipment. We saw it when we tested it. We saw it in the source and contact research. And now we see it again when we vaccinate. This minister is late. He's admitting it himself now. He says: yes, I should have asked the GGDs a little earlier to work out another strategy, so we wouldn't have been too late. Mr. Chairman. There is a very clear opinion from the Health Council on the vaccination. The Health Council says start with the most vulnerable elderly people living in nursing homes. Because if we start vaccinating there, we can save most of the lives and be the first to reduce the pressure on care in the nursing homes and in the hospitals. And what do we see happening? The GGDs aren't ready and that's gonna take even longer. The Minister must now admit that we are too late again. That was asked here in the debate two weeks ago, and the Minister did not want to admit it at the time. That's what we're blaming this cabinet for. When you look at what happens in hospitals, we see that they also have to stop the care of people, not only the care that can be delayed, but also the necessary care. That means a lot to a lot of people. I am also curious to hear from the Minister what exactly went wrong. We have the Pfizer vaccine. The minister says it comes in a lot of doses and that it doesn't manage to get it to the nursing homes in small doses. Therefore, it would not be possible to vaccinate the most vulnerable people first. Pfizer's director says they already let the cabinet know in October. My question is: is that correct and what has the Minister done since then to ensure that it is possible? What do we see in other countries? When we hear Marcel Levi, the Dutch hospital director in London, or Mark van Ranst, the Belgian virologist, say that it's not at all so complicated, that it's actually very easy to get that in small doses to the nursing homes and to vaccinate the most vulnerable people first. And they do so in the UK and Belgium, but here in the Netherlands it is not possible. We want to know from the cabinet why that is not possible. What is the Cabinet going to do to restore this gigantic failure? If it's still to be repaired, I'll ask the cabinet. Or do we really have to watch how the most vulnerable people in the Netherlands are still caught by this virus, when these people are already protected in the rest of Europe? Then there are also many concerns and questions about the British mutant of the virus. We read and hear a lot about it, but we still don't know much, is our image. My question to the cabinet is: what does the cabinet know about this? We read that it would be more contagious and that it would also go around among children. When was the investigation of that British mutant at that school in Rotterdam completed? What can we expect from that? What is the Cabinet doing to be well prepared for that? And then care. That is what we really need to talk about today. We have great concerns about care and our caregivers, because they are almost out of control, so that people who need care don't get it anymore. They see a health minister in almost every Christmas special appearance, but in the meantime we are the last in line to vaccinate and that hurts a lot. And then I think of those people who, every day, even when we're sitting here, walk the fire out of the slippers to do whatever it takes. We're not gonna be able to protect them properly. At first, not with the protective materials, not with the vaccines. That hurts a lot. I would also like to know what the cabinet is going to do to provide additional support for those caregivers. Look what happens in the hospitals, where the treatments that are needed are needed! Just can't go on anymore. It's not for nothing either. We have seen for ten years, under Prime Minister Rutte, that hospitals have been closed down. Quite recently the Slotervaart in Amsterdam and the IJsselmeer hospitals. Last week we heard that the hospital in the neighborhood couldn't handle it anymore and had to set up a patient stop. Of the number of first aid posts, 16 have disappeared in the last ten years. Ten years ago we had 99 in the Netherlands and now only 83, and now we have the problems. And not to mention our caregivers, who were sent off with tens of thousands of dollars by the previous cabinet. With tens of thousands, and now we need these people so badly! Everything is a shortcoming at the moment, and that is what we are charging this cabinet for. I'm rounding up. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the situation in the nursing homes. That is what we are particularly concerned about. The nursing homes do not have Diederik Gommers who can tell what is going on at the talk show tables in a very good, clear way, but there is a lot going on. As in the first wave, we find it far too quiet, here, in the cabinet and perhaps in the media, about what's going on in the nursing homes. We need to be there for those people. And then we're not even talking about a decent appreciation, and then I'm really finishing up. We certainly don't hear about that anymore in these days, when we really should. In the previous wave, caregivers received applause and a bonus. Now it's half a bonus. Let us make sure that we can not wait another day any longer, especially given the deficits that our caregivers are entitled to. And at least that's a decent appreciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. Second Christmas: the trucks drove to Brabant and the vaccines came in the freezer. A picture of the minister: what a triumph for science. And what a failure of this cabinet that they're still in that freezer. Mr. Chairman. We've had all the excuses: "We're more careful here. We're finer here. The others are doing it symbolically. It is not technically possible. It doesn't fit our strategy." The truth is, they were too late. What stings me and what pisses me off is the bravure with which the cabinet in the media and in the debate we had here December 17 said, "Guys, what does it matter? A few weeks sooner or later, it doesn't matter. It's about who's ready first." A total denial of the service of that vaccine. It's not a symbolic shot. It's not a competition with other countries. It's a life-saving vaccine. It pains me that so many other countries have apparently understood so much better than this cabinet. Yeah, there's implementation problems everywhere, but they're pricking. People are protected and safe from that virus. Mr. Chairman. I ask this Minister, but I also ask the Prime Minister, who was nowhere to be seen. What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that there is an effective plan now? I ask the Prime Minister whether it is true that the large Pfizer packs of 975 are still being repacked so that they can go to hospitals. If so, why wasn't that possible for the nursing homes? And if that's possible now, why wasn't that possible on Christmas Day? In other words, why aren't we just doing the Health Council's advice for a long time, which is protecting vulnerable elderly people from the virus? I ask the Prime Minister why it is not until about March that a worrying time mark is to be given to the self-employed vulnerable elderly. Those are people who would be fine coming to a vaccination center. I ask the Prime Minister to explain why a relatively slow pace of vaccination is being chosen. Why is the capacity not increased much further? The people responsible say they can do that, whether it's the GPs or the GGD. I ask the Prime Minister why he has not appointed a crisis manager to manage the vaccination strategy, when he has already seen when testing that it failed with the existing people. Then he saw it in the source and contact research. Although he has seen that over and over again, in August, September, October, November and December, he has allowed it to happen again and has kept quiet. Why didn't he appoint someone to help? You can make up the names. Because it's not about who does it, it's about people being protected from this virus, and that we relieve care, where people walk on their last legs, where people work day and night and where people haven't been able to cope with the fatigue of the first wave. What they see is a course that can't be followed and vaccines in a freezer. Mr. Chairman. The second major point of this debate concerns, as far as I am concerned, schools and children. In the previous debate I said to Rob Jetten: please see if the primary schools can open earlier. It can't be. I acknowledge that. I understand that based on these figures, we can't do it. But now that we see that this British variant may be more contagious among children........................................................................................................................................................... How far is the cabinet now to help the schools with ventilation? How far is the cabinet now in making plans to ensure that schools, if they can open up again, can do so safely, for example with quick tests? How far is the cabinet in shaping one-and-a-half-meter education, including in secondary and primary education? It seems as if the cabinet has thought: the schools are open or they are closed. While the idea is that you have to help schools for that too, we can learn lessons from other countries to do it safely at the time it is justified. You have to help them at a time when they're doing all the impossible, by always changing distance learning and physical education. It is also a profession that is under terrible pressure. I have also tabled motions with D66 on this subject, and the Chamber has also made several statements on this matter. I want to know from the Prime Minister what progress has been made on the implementation. Because the pattern in this crisis is: one is always late and one underestimates the problem. When the time comes, there are few options left but draconian: a lockdown, the economy locked, the people inside and the schools closed. Mr. Chairman. It is up to the cabinet to restore the confidence of the Dutch people and the Chamber in this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. I talked to Annemarie before Christmas, a nurse in one of the major hospitals in the Netherlands. She told me about all the aggression she has to deal with and about how tired she is, tired of the work she does herself, tired of being in charge of the nurses, tired of taking care of her colleagues when they see someone else die in the covid department. I asked her if there was a moment when she thought, "I'm not going to work." She replied, "Not a second." That shows that all those people who work in care, no matter how hard it is, don't waste a day. I think it is all the worse if politics, The Hague, fails this cabinet. And that is the case, at least when it comes to the vaccination strategy. That makes me angry. If we ask the people in care to do the best they can to keep the ic's running and to continue to care for the people, with very few colleagues, we must also do the best we can. When the Minister of Health and RIVM say that vaccination a week earlier or later doesn't matter that much, that's wrong. This is based on the idea of creating group immunity. Yeah, we want that eventually, with a vaccine like that, and then that one week really doesn't matter, because at the end of the year you got that. But for individuals, it does make a difference. On 17 December, we had a very solid debate here and asked many questions to the Minister. Couldn't it have been sooner? Can't it be sooner? Can't we go any faster? No, faster was irresponsible. It couldn't be any faster. No, no mistakes have been made. That's it. And three weeks later we get a letter that doesn't say "sorry" yet, but it does say: we made mistakes; it could all have been quicker. There have been valuable weeks lost, and that is unacceptable. We are asking for the maximum of the people in the care, but we are also asking for the maximum level of care; it is almost inhuman; I am aware of that from this cabinet and from these ministers. It's gone wrong with the vaccination. The letter that's here doesn't give me enough confidence to think it's going well now. That's mostly in the capacity that's in place right now to inoculate. For example, it is said about the Moderna vaccine: it is expected that we will be able to use this small scale, that this can be distributed through the general practitioners and through the nursing homes. But what if you can't? What if we still need large-scale locations? Do we have enough to do with the 25 locations of the G.D.D.? Do we have enough to do with the 400 pricks out there? It is written that the GGD is right to have extra human power through external parties. That was also said, "that was exactly the same passage "on the test policy, on the source and contact research." I want to see numbers. How many people are available on call now? When the vaccine comes tomorrow, who can we use to inoculate? Mr. Chairman. It's gotta be much better. The same applies to the test policy. Now that the English variant of the virus is here, I'm very concerned about what that means for the R. It's going up structuralally. It's only a matter of time before this becomes the dominant version of the virus here in the Netherlands. Then testing becomes even more important. Because it's not an option to be in this lockdown for months. The social and economic consequences are incalculable. The only way to bring relief in there quickly is through the testing policy. What is going to happen now to speed things up there? Mr. Chairman. What I am saying now is hard, but it is true: there is a problem with the functioning of this Minister for Health. I call upon the Prime Minister to do so. He's in charge of the corona policy, he's the one chairing the Catshuis sessions and all the meetings, he's responsible for this team. My question to him is: how is he going to ensure that the vaccination strategy and the further roll-out of the test policy will not fail again? I want to see the Prime Minister. He has to take responsibility and pull this towards him. I have a very specific suggestion. I actually have two. I have previously proposed the appointment of a separate minister for testing. I can also imagine that there will now be a government commissioner for vaccination and a government commissioner for testing and that they will be directly accountable to the Prime Minister. I want the Prime Minister himself to assume a direct responsibility for vaccination policy and testing policy, because that is how we can get the lockdown and the virus under control in the short term at least. Mr. Chairman. Finally, about what was in the newspaper this morning about the ic-beds. If I understand correctly, there are hospitals that have created more Ice Beds than the deal was. They're not getting any compensation for that right now. That's what I understand. That sounds very strange to me. I'd say every ic-bed is one. And instead of saying "you're not getting paid," I'd like to say, drive over there and give those people a ribbon. I believe that any ICU bed that can be created at the moment should be reimbursed. Then I don't want to see any comments from the Ministry: they go to court; we wait for the judge's ruling. Fix it! It is also what it radiates to the rest of the care. Is there a conflict between the Ministry and caregivers about paying bills or are we just standing in front of all those people who work there in the hospitals? They must feel that this minister is also there for all of them. That's why I'd say stop the course of justice. And you can do that by pulling the wallet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. I would like to focus today on three points: the vaccination strategy, the reopening of society as soon as possible and the triage. The vaccination route that Minister De Jonge set out is a bumpy path, with side routes that we now walk because of the alarm bells that ringed in the hospitals. The Minister's colleagues were labeled "symbol policy" before Christmas when they rushed the first vaccination to protect the population and reduce the pressure on care. The fact is that those countries did manage to vaccinate vulnerable elderly people in nursing homes earlier with the Pfizer vaccine. The Minister therefore rightly admitted yesterday in his letter that the approach could and should have been different. And for the cameras yesterday, there was also a clear apology. The fact is that the Minister has bet on one horse and this turned out to be the wrong horse. But that's not what I'm doing today. Above all, I want to have the confidence today that we are now on the right track with the approach presented yesterday. The letter and the corresponding planning are clear and sketches perspective. Now it has to be realised in practice. I have a few more questions about the vaccines. The vaccines are scarce, the minister rightly informed. Can he promise us that scarcity will be the only possible delaying factor in the coming months? So not logistical errors or misplanning, as was the case now. Or that in the next few weeks the registration of vaccinees will continue. Why does vaccination not start simultaneously in the Caribbean Netherlands, as promised earlier, but only in mid-February? Mr. Chairman. New delay is something we can't afford. Every day counts. Every day we vaccinate people counts, especially given the danger of the British and South African mutations that are now very worrying in other countries. I ask the Minister what concerns there are about these British and South African mutations in the Netherlands. Do we have any idea to what extent these mutations already occur in the Netherlands? What is the government's approach in the coming weeks to prevent further spread of these mutations? Mr. Chairman. Then the future. It is also up to the cabinet to continue to see the future through the crisis. That is why the question is: is this vaccination strategy also the quickest way to scale down the corona measures again? Is that modeled? With regard to the phasing-out of measures, I agree with Mr Asscher. There D66 wants to give priority to the reopening of schools and daycare centres. The OMT has said, understandably, that this cannot be done before it has already been planned, but it is important to consider how, from the end of January, these schools and childcare facilities can be opened up safely, something that we have been advocating for some time now. When will we hear more about this, I'll ask the Prime Minister. How can we make one-and-a-half-meter education possible if we cannot start regular again in the next few weeks? How do we help teachers and educational institutions to provide safe physical education? But it is also up to the Prime Minister to ensure that we can get out of the starting blocks flying and safe. What will the reopening of society look like when the first groups have been vaccinated? When have we vaccinated enough people to start scaling down those measures? The run-up with the help of experimental gardens and living labs is at least as important. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister about that. When will the roadmap for reopening be in place? Mr. Chairman. Then triage, a difficult subject. Yesterday we received a letter from Minister Van Ark about the playbook triage for ic recordings in phase 3, a playbook for the blackest scenario that hopefully never needs to be taken up. My party fully supports the current plan of doctors and experts on how to deal with such a scenario. This protocol has been approved by the inspection and now the field standard, with broad support in all hospitals. I therefore support doctors and ethicists who have to make difficult choices, sometimes about life or death. But in the Netherlands doctors always do this in good consultation with family and patients. We trust that they will do what is best. They therefore do not need an amendment to the law which prescribes a political preference in their field of expertise. We politicians only make political diagnoses. And it is a political choice to give confidence to the people who know most about it and who are directly involved in it every day. That's the choice of D66. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. Starting tomorrow, the first vaccinations will be carried out in the Netherlands. In the coming days, the number of places where vaccination is to be carried out will be scaled up and thus the capacity to prick. Yesterday we saw tens of thousands of healthcare workers applying on the first day to get such a vaccine, and also, until this morning, you can see that in recent weeks vaccination readiness in the Netherlands has risen considerably. The latter is good news, but it is also crucial when you look at the concerns that exist today, about both the level of pressure on the care and the infections, but above all the British variant that has emerged in recent weeks. That is why my question to the cabinet. The letter talks about the public campaign, but you see, for example, among young people, that vaccination readiness is lower. Is this public campaign also explicitly aimed at reaching out to these young people, in order to increase their willingness to be vaccinated? If you read the letter and the explanation of the cabinet on the vaccination strategy, Mr Jetten mentioned it just now, you will see that a perspective is outlined there. But you can also see that we are facing a very complicated puzzle, a great challenge and, above all, choices in scarcity. In addition, the rapid admission of vaccines by the EEA, but also the rapid delivery of sufficient vaccines appear to be the largest bottlenecks. Mr Klaver also mentioned the Moderna vaccine. This seems to be the first to be approved, but if you look at the tables provided by the cabinet, the AstraZeneca vaccine in Q1 seems to be able to be delivered in the largest numbers of millions. Again, with the pressure on the care and the infectiousness of that dangerous British variant, the rapid availability of large numbers of vaccines is crucial. Can the cabinet describe a little more specifically than has been done so far in the letter when it is expected that the AstraZeneca vaccine will be approved and whether indeed, I believe it is 4.5 million in Q1............................................................................................................................................................. The cabinet's talking about mid-February. Does this mean that from mid-February there will be very large numbers of approved vaccines? Could this be sooner? Could this be later? Are there scenarios ready so that, if there are large numbers, there can also be directly punctured with this vaccine? Because if you look purely at the numbers, there are the greatest opportunities. Over the last few days, and especially since last night, you can see that there has been a lot of discussion about whether or not to postpone a second shot. That seems to be the case in England from some kind of necessity, or need perhaps, while both manufacturers and regulators, for example in America, warn of the danger of this. What consequences does this have for policy in the Netherlands? Is this possible for different vaccines in the Netherlands? Are there any differences between vaccines? Does the cabinet once again have scenarios for how this is handled, depending on the opinions on this matter? Mr. Chairman. In England a heavy and long-term lockdown was announced yesterday. In Germany the lockdown is extended. The cabinet letter talks about an OMT opinion at the end of this week on the consequences for the Netherlands of that very dangerous British mutated virus. But there is also talk of a joint opinion from the Health Council and the OMT before 18 January. This would partly have to do with the consequences for the vaccination strategy of the British variant. Mr Jetten also referred to the South African variant. There are even fewer hard figures on this, but the fact that there are concerns that the vaccines are working at all makes it even more urgent that you get to work as quickly as possible. My question is as follows. If there is to be a progress note on 12 January, is it not important that the opinion given before 18 January on the elements applicable to the British mutant is already available before 12 January? Otherwise, you will base your choices on the one OMT advice, while the British variant will apparently come up with additional advice on the next day. Many of the speakers before me have spoken about this morning's news about ic capacity. I agree with the questions put by Mr Klaver on this issue. The image that is now emerging is that hospitals should scale up less ICU beds than they have done, because otherwise they will not be paid for it. Is this image accurate? How did this happen? Can the Minister explain what happened? It is precisely at this time of crisis that the question of who should pay the bill is painful. I would like the commitment and the guarantee that it will have no effect on the capacity scale. I would like to conclude with my final point. That is actually the point that Mr Klaver started with in his term. He mentioned a specific concern that has to do with that. I have received several signals that, just in recent weeks, the aggression, the short fuse towards the already under pressure care staff, is increasing enormously. Does the Minister recognize this image? If we say to each other that it is important that care personnel be vaccinated as soon as possible, also in order to prevent absenteeism that Kuipers spoke about yesterday, then his aggression and violence from a moral perspective for our people in the front lines of this crisis is very bad, but it can also lead to extra absenteeism, stress and that kind of thing. So I want to hear from the Cabinet if this is true and if so, what is being done to counter it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u28	I wonder then... We are having such a debate and everyone is talking about the failure of Minister De Jonge when it comes to vaccination policy. I would ask the CDA colleague: are you not critical of Mr De Jonge when it comes to the fact that we are the last people in Europe to start vaccination because he is CDA? Or did you think: you know what, I'm going to ask all these questions today, and I'm not talking about the subject that we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u29	In my opinion, this is indeed about the subject we are talking about, namely: how are we going to vaccinate as best as possible as quickly as possible? The complicated puzzle is how to make sure that you have scenarios to adapt to the situation in this crisis as it changes daily and remains sufficiently agile. And yes, there is criticism of that. We also discussed this with each other in the previous debate. Mr Klaver has just referred to this. Why couldn't it be sooner? That is the discussion about the "exceptionalism" of the Netherlands. That term belongs to Mr Asscher. Wasn't there too long on the fine-meshed network when it turned out that the Pfizer vaccine was the first? The letter also acknowledges that this should have been done sooner. At the same time, I find the criticism'shame that the policy is swamped and adapted' more complicated. This crisis is so complex that there are so many different vaccines from different distributors, vaccines with different effects on different people; you don't know when it will be approved and how much you will get when; there comes advice from the Health Council again that your manoeuvrability needs to be manoeuvrable. So I understand the criticism and ask as if it could not have been done sooner and whether we can learn lessons from it for the future, so that you become more flexible and get better scenarios. More intricately, I find discussions about the fact that a change would be muffled and a turn, because we have to remain flexible and we have to keep adjusting. That will certainly remain crucial in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u30	What an incredibly weak story. We must remain flexible: there is the biggest failure in the cabinet! There is the Minister of Health who has ensured that there are thousands of vaccines now in Oss, I don't even know how many, he doesn't just tell us how many, but at least thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of vaccines are now in the freezer, while there are people, elderly people, who want it voluntarily, who want it. While Mr Gommers has to beg on television to have care workers vaccinated in hospitals if they want to. Those are the problems, that's what's happening today. And other countries have done it a long time ago. We are the last of all those European countries, the European Union you love so much. We're the village idiot of Europe. He forgot all that, the Minister of Health. And then you say: we have to be flexible. We have gone completely wrong in Europe. We're the last ones to start. There are thousands of vaccines in the freezer, and people are dying for them. Those nurses, those nurses, those people in home care, those neighborhood nurses, the people who are old and in a nursing home or who are home and want to. They are now told: that will be March and perhaps even October or September, which will take some time. Why don't you say something about that? That minister failed, didn't he? Will you shut up because he's a CDA guy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u31	First of all, I didn't shut up about it. I just indicated that I understand the criticism of putting too long on one scenario. At that time, the vaccine of AstraZeneca was not approved, but Pfizer's was first approved, which led to delays. We all asked questions about this in the previous debate. But what Mr Wilders is doing now is simply criticising what has gone wrong here. That may be the case in this debate, and it must be done from the Chamber, but he is not looking forward to the lessons that we must draw from the great challenge we are facing. In this debate, I note an important difference between Mr Wilders and most of the other opposition parties, who are both very critical, and look at the lessons we have to draw from it and what we are going to do over the next few months to be more agile once the vaccine from Moderna arrives, as soon as AstraZeneca arrives with I believe 4.5 million vaccines in the first quarter. Then the adjustments have to go faster, so you don't have to deal with the problems we've had over the last few days, but can be pricked right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u32	I'd say start with another minister if you'd like to learn lessons for the future. Start with another minister! Get someone in there who can! Again, of course it is always good to look to the future. But it cannot be that you are totally ignoring the fact that we have thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of vaccines in the freezer in Oss almost two weeks ago from Christmas Day, while people are eager to use them voluntarily. That we in Europe are the very last, that we have become the third world country of Europe, that we do not use it. Every day not only do I say that, there are professors who say it every day, every week later means that there are more people who infect others, even though they could have been vaccinated. That could be the difference between life and death. We waited two weeks, and that's the difference between life and death. You need to talk about this, about the elderly and those people who work in health care who have not been given what they want for two weeks. There he is, the man responsible for that! If you want to learn one lesson for the future, you're looking for another health minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u33	This is a bit of a repetition of the discussion that Mr Wilders and I had a few weeks ago in the debate. We fundamentally disagree about the nature and extent of this crisis and the amount of work the cabinet has done to completely tilt the Netherlands. I insist that this has been a huge task that will be said years after that: very cleverly that it has been done. And yes, things go wrong in that too. This applies to all European countries. It is really not the case that people throughout Europe say that things are going great here. There is criticism in almost all countries, for various reasons. I hear Mrs Agema mention England. This is about the second injection and about the registration and in Germany about the number of vaccines. Some states have stopped because of the problems that exist. France has started but has put 350 shots, I read yesterday, I think, in the Volkskrant. There is therefore criticism in many countries, including the Netherlands. That must be done in this debate. Things go wrong, and you have to be able to criticize them. At the same time, what has happened over the past six months has been huge. I do not think that the qualifications given by Mr Wilders in this debate are right. Furthermore, I would like to reiterate that most other opposition parties criticise what is going wrong, but also look ahead to the future, and that will be crucial in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u34	That looking forward to the future. We received a letter from 24 pages with the new vaccination strategy. Where in this strategy do you see that we are more manoeuvrable in the coming period, that we can respond more easily if there is another vaccine or we need to inject under other conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u35	I understand Mr Klaver's question. Either he misunderstood me or I linked two things too much. I found that the letter contains agility, adjustments to the situation. I think that if that happens, whether it is about care staff being taken away because of the ic's and because of the British variant or whether it is possible to start two days earlier, you should not say: that is the weak policy. That's the first thing. On the basis of the letter, I have asked questions about whether we are sufficiently manoeuvrable in the future. I have asked questions about AstraZeneca, whether it will be sooner or later and what the numbers are. I've asked if there are any scenarios in case things change suddenly. The questions about these scenarios I ask because I want to know if it is sufficiently manoeuvrable. Those are two different things for me. You can see in the letter that there has been maneuverability. I think that's wise, and you shouldn't dismiss that as a weak policy. Mr Klaver did not do that, as far as I saw. The manoeuvrability in the future is crucial and that is why I have asked questions about these scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u36	That's nice, those scenarios. That's what I want. But then where my concern lies. We have received 24 pages with an update of the vaccination strategy. If there are not those scenarios, what is the new one we have read here except that the target groups have been better mapped out? When I read that from January 18th onwards there is capacity to inoculate 66,000 people at these 25 locations and there is no writing about how that is extended, that we are going to scale up the maximum capacities from now on, then you'll just have a problem if you're still at large test sites the new vaccines that come, for example from Moderna or AstraZeneca... There's just no capacity for that. That is not mentioned in the updated strategy, not a word. I am very concerned about that. Isn't that just supposed to be in that strategy? Shouldn't you or I have to ask here in the Lower House? That's the Minister's job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u37	Two things. Firstly, I think I am a little more positive than Mr Klaver about the letter that came yesterday. Because we are indeed setting out a picture and a perspective of what vaccines are expected when and how they are handled. At the same time, I'm not asking that question about AstraZeneca for nothing. The expectation is that it will be there in mid-February, but it does not say that this means that the expectation is that we will get a very large delivery. Because if you do, you're gonna have to scale your capacity further. So my question about the scenarios is that I read the letter more positively than what I hear from Mr Klaver. The odds are, I think, that we have to be honest about this: over the next few weeks, we will have to deal with the scarcity of vaccines rather than the puncture capacity. This is already happening in Germany: we have capacity, but we do not have vaccines. That is also a scenario that we have to take into account. But Mr. Klaver is right. If it were to happen very quickly with AstraZeneca, which we should hope with each other, then it is important that you do so at that time... Hopefully that is part of those scenarios again via that fine-meshed network. I do not want to fall into exceptionalism, which Mr Asscher has criticized a number of times. Then you can use that network, too, and then you have a lot of capacity. My question to the cabinet is as follows: what is the situation and whether sufficient thought is being given to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u38	Finally, Mr President. We are going to have this debate with the cabinet, but Mr Heerma is constantly talking about when the various vaccines are delivered. We got a nice overview of that. He asks: do we have the exact times for that? That's something we don't have any influence on. In doing so, we depend on the pharmaceutical companies and when they supply these vaccines. Whether they come sooner or later, I will never appeal to this minister, because he can't really do much about that. What he can do is make sure that there are enough people to put the shot. What he can do is make sure there are enough locations. And exactly what he can do, nothing is actually written in that letter. There's no expansion on it. It is written about things that he does not have any influence on, namely when we can expect these vaccines about. At your service; I don't need to know that in detail, because we don't know that at all. This is what you can know about at most. What I want to know is, when the vaccines come, are we ready? I see we have a test capacity for up to 66,000 people a week at the major GGD locations. That is not enough. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister in this debate how we are going to scale that up, because that has to go to hundreds of thousands a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mr Klaver is partly right, of course. Some things we don't know for sure. You don't know exactly when the approval's coming. We can see with each other that it is important that it arrives quickly. And you don't know exactly how big that delivery will be. At the same time, these are crucial questions, because we have found with the Pfizer vaccine that more manoeuvrability is needed. We must therefore also ask questions about this, because the opinion of the Health Council, which follows an approval, may just contain different information about the target groups and so on from what is now being assumed. Then at that moment you must be sufficiently agile to adapt to that situation. This is not just about the capacity on the large puncture sites. It can also be ensured with distribution and logistics that it is still available to other groups. So Mr Klaver is right: we do not know some of these things and you cannot appeal to the cabinet. But you can ask the Cabinet if the scenarios are there, with all the uncertainties we can read about. Those scenarios are necessary to be agile. That is the question I asked, and I think that is and my question partly overlaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr. Chairman. Just before Christmas, we also had a debate on vaccination. Then the Chamber actually wanted to start vaccination earlier, and the Minister said it couldn't, couldn't. We then concluded with the feeling that it would not be very pleasant if all the countries around us were pricking and we were not yet. And I think that's the feeling we have right now. I read in the letter and in the media that the Minister has also been biting himself. I also see that he notes that "we did not turn out to be sufficiently agile" and that he could have asked the GGD earlier to work out plan B. I also read that he does not necessarily think that scenarios should have been worked out, because there are too many eventualities. On these scenarios and eventualities, my group disagrees with the Minister, but that will not surprise him, because during the budget debate my colleague Hayke Veldman has already asked him to make scenarios anyway. Then the Minister replied the same as he is now saying about it, so it is certainly consistent. But in our eyes, you make scenarios when things are insecure, or if you know about what's coming, but there are different variants. If there are no "eventualities" to use that word again, you don't need scenarios. If you know everything in advance, you can go around the world with a dime. So I do hope that the lesson we're taking is that we're going to make scenarios. I'd rather we had people work something out for nothing. You celebrate together that it wasn't necessary in the end. I also understand that it's so complex that you can make 20 scenarios now. Then you choose the three most likely and the worst, and then you prepare them, hoping you don't have to. But, Mr. Chairman, now I'm gonna look forward. We start vaccination this week, the week of January 4th. There is criticism that we did not start earlier, but it is also good to note that the minister and all the people in the implementation are now meeting the date. We are indeed starting in the week that has been mentioned to us, when, according to the Minister, it could and could go responsibly. I also think it is a good sign that in recent weeks the manoeuvrability has been visible. We reserve the first delivery to form a ring of protection around the vulnerable. So the people who work in the nursing homes get the first vaccines. But at the same time the pressure on hospitals and ic-capacity rose to an alarming level. Protecting our vulnerable also requires that you make sure that there is a bed on the ic if they need it. So I think it makes sense that there are now 30,000 vaccines going to hospitals, to prevent further breakdown and further loss of ic capacity. Mr. Chairman. Hopefully this will also help prevent code black. All efforts must be made to prevent this. It is, of course, wise that a scenario has been prepared, that it is there, and that after many ways of dilemmas and ethical discussions, the medical world has made decisions and has resolved dilemmas. I'd like to compliment them on that. That's hard work. But if my group now looks at the field standard, we can see that in most cases age is not a determining factor. Only in exceptional cases, where the odds are very small that they occur, actually just before you have to draw lots, should throw a coin on it, as bizarre as that may seem; I can't imagine you having to do that, standing on the bed, playing a role. The Cabinet will come up with a law to delete it. Our group also believes that it is important to ensure that the people who are going to be at the bed, who have to make the choice, who have to tell the family, follow their choice and the standard they have finally come to. That is what we tend towards in advance, but in due course we will weigh everything and look at the law carefully. It seems to me right now to point out that we are not sure that we will support the law as well. Mr. Chairman. Then I have questions about the British variant. Can the Minister say a little more about that? Is it indeed more contagious? Are children more prone to it? That, of course, makes the group of Dutch who can have and transfer the potential greater. That's a problem. Do we know if the vaccines we have also protect against this variant? If it turns out that children are indeed more susceptible to this variant, what does this mean for the decision of the Committee on Youth, Culture, Education, the Media and Sport? Does that have anything to do with the nature of the vaccine? Did that have to do with the idea that they weren't susceptible to the virus? Does any change due to the British variant also mean a change in what to do with vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u42	Back to the code black that the colleague of the VVD mentioned. There's already a code black, just: you don't see it! [[Sentence could not be parsed: De code zwart is die anderhalf duizend ouderen en kwetsbare patiënten die niet meer naar het ziekenhuis zijn gestuurd, die gewoon door de huisarts thuis hebben moeten sterven.]] Those who made sure that we, especially with the previous lockdown too, did not come to code black in the Netherlands. When you say to the elders, "You can't go to the hospital, you have to stay home and you have to die at home," you can pretend there's no code black, but there is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u43	The way in which Mr Wilders now briefly portrays how the doctors have dealt with these people does not do justice to reality. I don't think it's true that the GP calls and says, "I've looked at your date of birth and I don't really care what you have. You can't go to the hospital. Go home and die." That is what Mr Wilders says. Luckily, that's not the way it is in our country. We do, of course, have a different culture from countries like Italy, wherever they say for religious reasons: I don't care what you find as a patient yourself, you go to the hospital; as long as you still have breath to get in and get out of you, we will put you on a device. We deal with this differently in the Netherlands, which means that many people record with a notary: under these conditions I do not want to be treated anymore. I think that's a respectful way of dealing with your own wishes. This leads, as a result, to fewer people of higher age than in other countries going to ic. That's not because they get a call: I can tell by your birth year that you have to die at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u44	That is certainly the case. There are, of course, elderly people who want to do so themselves. There are. You're right about that. That's everyone's right. There are also older people who we have seen in the past year at EenVandaag-verklarings (EenVandaag-verklarings) who are called by the GP. They were more or less sent home to die there instead of going to the hospital. I've talked to the Minister about it before. That's just something we shouldn't be doing. That's just code black. Everyone here is acting like we don't have a code black. But apart from the people who voluntarily prefer to stay home to die again, you are right, Mr Dijkhoff, there are also a lot of people who do not want to die. Again, in a recent press release on 1,566 elderly and vulnerable patients who have died massively at home and have no longer been referred to the hospital, the Consortium Research General Medicine reported. Those aren't all people who wouldn't have wanted that. They're not. You should take a look at that, too. My second question concerns the same elderly people. What do you think? If we want the hospitals to run less quickly, it seems logical to me that you should make sure that the people who are responsible in particular for the hospitals and the ICUs do not have to go to the hospital? Those are the elders. Those are also the elderly living at home. The people of 60, 70 years of age, especially if they still have a vulnerability and a disease, should be the first to be helped. England, the United Kingdom, has already vaccinated all 80-plussers, apart from...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u46	No, I had another question. Yes, you can laugh at it, but people at home long for a vaccine because it offers them freedom and security. I see now that the cabinet does not start until March and that the inoculation of home residents even lasts well into the third quarter. Again, couldn't it be sooner for the people who want it? Not only for the elderly, but also to prevent the ic's from flooding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u48	Couldn't we start now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u49	The first point, why people are not referred to the hospital, is indeed not just about their own choice and people who volunteer to report things. It also has to do with the medical consideration whether a treatment helps. Of course, it's not like a doctor thinks: if I send this person to the hospital, then after three days he's as fresh as a hooker, but I don't. This is based on a medical assessment and not a ban on placing people on an ic from a given year of birth. Then there is the second point. I don't think there's one way to keep the ic capacity alive. If an ic nurse has to quarantine himself or has corona, it saves four beds for the duration that person is not available. That's a big factor of significance. You should inoculate four more people when there's not a 100% chance someone gets it. So I think that is a very effective way of ensuring that there is enough ic capacity. In addition, protecting people who are more likely to end up on the ic, by inoculating themselves or the people who work with them and taking care of them, is a very effective way. It is also effective to inoculate the group between 60 and 80 years old, which often ends up on the ic. I think that the schedule is not putting them at the back of another group, but that the bottleneck is the delivery of the vaccine and the ability to provide it to them. So I see that vulnerability is being started. First come the people who are vulnerable, the elderly who live in a nursing home. Then the people who live in a ggz institution, with whom the pandemic also chops heavily into it for other reasons, to whom you sometimes cannot explain: this is a mouth cap and this is 1.5 meters away. The one group that seems to be in between here are people who go to a large test site themselves, but I think that has to do with the nature of the vaccine and the ability to deliver it. Anyone who describes Mr Wilders is in the category "gets it from the GP." I think the bottleneck is not a choice we make here, but the delivery of the vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u50	Finally, Mr President. The cabinet has the Moderna vaccine in store for those living at home, especially for people over 75 years of age who are not mobile. The United Kingdom has just vaccinated all 80-year-olds with the Pfizer vaccine. So that can be very good. According to your statement that the Minister sent us last night, we have over 8 million vaccines available in all this quarter. Well, I'm not saying that hospital and nursing staff aren't important. Of course they are very important. I also support the idea that they should be given priority, but if we want to close that crane to hospitals and to the ICUs, shouldn't we start now with elderly people living at home who are vulnerable? You can do that with Pfizer vaccines. Those people are watching TV now, too. Those people don't just want that. It is also important that they get it first, because that is precisely the people who go to the hospitals most often and end up on the ic's. That's a reasonable request. It's a logical request. I would like you to think about whether that is not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u51	I will. Nor do I have the idea that the category mentioned by Mr Wilders is not a priority, but I do not know whether it is possible to get any more. Whether this is practical is also due to the Minister's reply. Mr. Chairman. I guess I'll come to the close. The privacy issues also play in other countries. We hear discussions about employers who will not be able to know how much of the employees they want to use in their ic- or nursing home department have been vaccinated. I think that could be a problem. If your parents are in a nursing home, you also want to know if the employees around them have been vaccinated. I understand the privacy, and I also understand the right to refuse the vaccine, or I'm gonna let you not sign up, but it's important to know what the vaccination rate is, including in your care institution and for the whole society, and not to have a problem with it, which means that we can't register it. Another point, which does not really fit in with today's debate, concerns a call in the newspaper of the event industry. In the previous debate, I asked for a serious look at that. That's a promise, too. I always see such a call in the newspaper as a sign that the consultation does not run smoothly. So I would like to hear whether an update can be given on this. Otherwise, this could happen for the debate that we have already planned for next week, in which we will take this kind of thing with us again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr. Chairman. We're on the eve of the first vaccinations. We've been looking forward to that for a long time! But the vaccines have been in storage for one and a half weeks and the Netherlands is on the verge of vaccinating fence shutter in the EU. So again blunder in the Dutch approach, because while in New York, Leiden and many other places in the world the best minds have worked hard over the past year to develop a vaccine as quickly as possible, the Netherlands was not ready to have syringes and vaccination sites ready when the first loads came in. While we were told for months that it was waiting for a vaccine, the wait turned out to be a vaccination program. The Minister acknowledges that things haven't gone well, but does he learn from this? Is the Ministry now working with those already mentioned by many expected scenarios in which vaccines enter the Netherlands earlier, later or with certain restrictions? Mr. Chairman. For months now, we have been experiencing the effects of an animal disease that has spread to humans, a zoonosis, in all its ferocity. Those who were not convinced of the need to do everything possible to prevent a next pandemic will certainly be, but is the cabinet as well? In June, the Chamber adopted our motion which called for an ambitious plan of action to reduce the risk of the emergence of zoonoses and which asked the VWS Minister not to deliver that plan of action for Princess Day, but before the end of the year to actually learn lessons in his words and to do something with them thoroughly. On New Year's Eve, we received the long-awaited letter about zoonoses, but what now turns out? Nothing's happened yet. No analysis, no lessons and certainly no ambitious plan. In fact, the expert group which has been announced has yet to be set up and even has yet to be set up. The results of their work are therefore not expected until the summer of 2021. So delay, while scientists warn that if we continue in this way, we will face an era in which pandemics will follow each other more and more quickly, and the consequences will increase. We can't afford that. Where's that ambitious plan? Mr. Chairman. Then the agricultural poison, which can lead to resistant fungi that are currently affecting some of the corona patients on the ic. Almost a month ago, the Minister for Medical Care promised to come back to that in a letter, but unfortunately we have not received anything yet. I would like to stress once again that this resistant fungus is not innocent. 80% of patients with this resistant aspergillus fungus die. Also the poison, the azoles, which cause fungal resistance, are not innocent. The azoles that are still on the market are on a European list to replace them. That's, like, some kind of blacklist of the most dangerous pesticides. But despite that, these azoles have been slipping through the European assessment procedure for one or more years and are therefore being automatically extended, because there would be no assessment capacity. What is the Minister finally going to do to really remove these toxins from the market and thus to prevent this fungal resistance? Mr. Chairman. I've mentioned it before: the corona virus didn't get on the bike here. The aviation sector is an important player in the spread of the virus. This will be no different from the new variants that have emerged in the United Kingdom and South Africa. My group therefore considers it unwise that the flight bans on the United Kingdom and South Africa have been lifted once again. A mandatory negative corona test has replaced it. But such a test of up to 72 hours old still leaves space between the moment of testing and the moment of flying. Why is the Minister taking that risk? Moreover, at present there is still no legal basis for requiring such a test. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, there is now another temporary flight ban, whereby a declaration of necessity can be used in serious situations. Can the Minister explain how the promised investigation into such a declaration of necessity stands? When will that be completed? When can we expect information about that? It is very necessary that there be soon. That's how I've completed my input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Great words often have to hide small acts." Who said that? What politician was that? I will give you the answer: that was Balkenende. That's what I was thinking, Mr. Chairman. We have heard great words from this minister. The vaccine was the way out of this corona crisis. He also said, once the vaccine arrives, we'll be ready. On December 17th he said something else: we start January 8th. He kept it up. In fact, he said, "If we start earlier, that's irresponsible. We need to choose a careful route. It is not justified to do it before." Mr. Chairman. He was also condescending about other countries. On 27 December many countries in Europe "symbolically" issued a vaccine. Something like that was a little below his dignity. You actually heard him say, "I don't do that." Breast forward: that is too symbolic and we as the Netherlands do not participate. Big words often have to hide small acts. You often see it: too much self-confidence leads to you losing sight of reality. The result is poignant. In England they started on December 8th. They have already started in Denmark, Iceland, Russia, China, Croatia, Oman, Kuwait and even Bulgaria and Romania. Are all these countries acting irresponsiblely? Is that all symbolism? Mr. Chairman. Corona policy is an accumulation of bad communication, failure to keep promises, turning, zigzags, even more failure to keep promises, promise improvement and then fail again. Why doesn't our Prime Minister Rutte do anything? Why does he take the same attitude as in the supplemental affair? Why so passive? Why do we come up with one strategy in a time of great uncertainty and bet on one horse, as Mr Jetten said, and are we too late? The people in our country are suffering from the lockdown. We called this euphemist "intelligent," because we thought we were doing better here than in other countries. At least our lockdown was still intelligent. But we see citizens seeing their treatment postponed. We see that people are sick and that a million people are not being referred to. Entrepreneurs see their life's work slowly ruined. Young people are increasingly lonely and depressed. They look forward hopefully and eagerly to Minister De Jonge and Prime Minister Rutte. A lot that is often overtaken by a lack of reality in the statements of a zigzagging minister. Because the biggest light at the end of the tunnel would really be the vaccine. He was going to deliver a piece of music. By rapidly vaccinating everyone, we would bring the virus the stroke of grace, because the dancing, as mentioned earlier, was getting worse and worse. But also on this subject, Minister De Jonge's words proved to be worthless; vain hope. And while the whole world is vaccinating, Hugo de Jonge had no scenario planning, no vaccination plan and no call protocols until 24 hours ago. And he also indicates: I just asked the GD to be late. Mr. Chairman. In the debate on 17 December, he insisted that it had made hardly any difference. Yet I also read that he has been blaming himself under the Christmas tree. Why is that? He saw in the surrounding countries that everyone was busy and that we did nothing in the Netherlands. And while the people in the country are craving a way out of that lockdown, they see a minister making empty promises, not having his case in order and letting things get out of hand. A promise today, come back tomorrow! The Netherlands deserves better, better direction and better coordination. Mr. Chairman. DENK has always insisted that vaccination should never be mandatory, not directly, but not indirectly. I am pleased that on 20 May the House of Representatives adopted a motion by DENK in which that is also stated in plain and clear terms. But to my fear I saw a request for advice from Minister De Jonge to the Health Council asking for advice on indirect vaccination duty, which he calls "the corona passport." This gives you access to a part of society, to healthcare institutions, restaurants and other occasions. Citizens experience that as a sneaky way to require vaccination anyway. As far as DENK is concerned, corona passports, mandatory vaccinations and any other measures that violate privacy and self-determination are unacceptable. I shall again table a motion on this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr Dijkhoff has a question for you. Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u57	I find this interesting in terms of content. Look, we're not gonna force or push. I often read online that we are for that, but we are not. But I guess lying is okay. Not that you do; I'm just annoyed by that. You're talking about self-determination and privacy. That's what I'm here for. But I actually want to be able to choose for myself. I'd like to be able to prove to myself that I have a vaccine. I would like to offer pubs the opportunity to open up on the condition that people are vaccinated. As with other diseases, I want to know for my children that people have been vaccinated against them. So I do not think it is wise to frame everything that people, entrepreneurs, give more space when we are vaccinated under those conditions, as coercion or urge. Could you please stop doing that? It's not a duty. But if I choose to have the vaccine myself and if I do, I want to have more space with it. That's not too crazy, is it? That's not an indirect duty, is it? That's just a consequence, a way we have to do it temporarily until we have enough group protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u58	I understand Mr Dijkhoff's considerations, but I did not understand very well what the question is to me. I don't think I've said that it's impossible for people to want to report on their own that they've been vaccinated against corona. The question is whether you are going to nationally record that the corona vaccine has been taken by some groups, which means that others no longer have access to any part of society. The question is whether that is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u59	It's about access that no one has right now. That is the starting point. The starting point is that we have a lockdown. We're in trouble. We can infect each other and so we all don't like a lot of things. Then it is not so crazy that in the intermediate phase, after we have enough vaccines for everyone, you say to someone who has been vaccinated: you can do certain work easier for example or you can go somewhere. Then I'll have to prove I've been vaccinated. We shouldn't believe in a self-printed form. You'll have to be able to verify the registration somewhere. And anyone who doesn't want to shouldn't have to. But it's not like we're saying to anyone, you can't do something. No, you can't do that now. The alternative isn't that he can do it without a vaccine. The alternative is that someone with a vaccine shouldn't either. That seems to me to be useful information for entrepreneurs who want to start events and also for healthcare staff, because there you also need to know who you are putting in which department, so who has been vaccinated. My question to Mr Azarkan is whether we can discuss it in a way without immediately extending it to indirect duty, urge and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u60	I notice that around 15% to 20%, 25% of people in society are suspicious of this vaccine. I think it's a good thing we're giving that space. If we force these people and that leads to more mistrust and uncertainty, we are further away from home. I think we should start with the three-quarters that indicate that we would very much like to be vaccinated. The question is whether that means giving those groups of people, if the lockdown ever ends, other accesses to a part of society. The question is whether those are places you choose voluntarily. For example, you're going to a festival. Do we think that's fair with each other? Or is it also about places like a service offered by the government? Of course, there's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u61	I agree with Mr Azarkan that we start with the people who want to. Hopefully that will lead to a lot of other people saying they see that other people have it and that they have faith in it. Enough is enough. You need a certain degree to protect each other. I don't know exactly where it is yet, but we're not gonna let it be a bullying measure. After that, I think there is a question, if half have been vaccinated and half have not yet been vaccinated. Mr Azarkan says that people without vaccination are denied things, but the consequence of his logic is that people who have been vaccinated still cannot do things while they have been vaccinated. That's a little weird, too. Of course, essential public services will never be withheld from anyone because they do not have a vaccine. You're never gonna tell anyone we're not gonna operate because you haven't been vaccinated. Not that, but you may have to change your appointment at another time, because precautions need to be taken. I'm making this up out here, but then it's less black and white than it is or not. Let us assume voluntaryity, of those who still hesitate to convince on content and in no way urge or compulsion. Let us also offer the possibility that someone will say halfway through: not everyone has been vaccinated, not even everyone who really wants to, we are not yet ready, but there will probably be things organized where you can go when you have taken a test, at the door, a quick test, or if you have a vaccination certificate. Why should I be tested if I've already been vaccinated? Let us make that possible in a calm manner, without making it such a battle. I have an opinion on a vaccine. I'll find it safe as soon as I can. Let us not give priority to politicians in the Greek way. Let's not do that, but as soon as it's my turn, I'm gonna take it. Then I'll tell others how it went. I am confident that we can convince each other in a decent way, without urge or compulsion. But let's not say the other way around that we're going to deny people something if they wait a little while longer or don't want it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u62	Is this microphone working?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u63	No, the other one's much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u64	This is extra work for the messengers. Excuse me. Mr Azarkan announces a new motion, namely against vaccination coercion and urge. He himself recalls that in March, I believe...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u65	May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u66	...has already filed a motion in May. Later we received a motion from colleague Wilders. It was put to the vote here. He spoke very clearly: no direct or indirect coercion. He didn't approve of his own motion? Didn't he think Mr Wilders' was clear? Why another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u67	Because "direct and indirect" is apparently interpreted differently by the cabinet. I can see that paths are being taken which indirectly lead to people still having to take vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u68	Would this unrest, which Mr Azarkan is referring to, perhaps be caused by the suggestion he himself makes, namely that it is about vaccination coercion, while the request for an opinion was about testing? How do you deal with ethical dilemmas among people who are being tested and people who are not being tested? There was a request from the Chamber. I myself tabled a motion on vaccination. The minister says we're here for ethical dilemmas. There was a question about an ethical framework. That was a motion that the entire Chamber voted in favour of. The Minister then sends a letter asking for an ethical framework around testing. What Mr Azarkan is doing is suggesting that there is again an urge or compulsion, that there is a passport in which there is a distinction. Then he says there's a lot of unrest after all. If you first stir up the unrest yourself, do not do justice to what the cabinet does, and then you come up with a motion saying that you are against coercion and urge, then you are dealing with a very strange figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u69	It might be a little weird to assume that this unrest is because of me. Well, then I'll be honored very much. I note that in part of society there is a great deal of suspicion and distrust of a vaccination obligation. I think it's good that people just have a choice. There are people who would like to be vaccinated very quickly. In my opinion, three quarters of the Netherlands say that; that is a fact. Then we just have to do it quickly. My point is that the interpretation of this request for advice may mean that you still have an indirect vaccination obligation. I believe that Mr Segers and his party voted in favour of this. And then there's the interpretation of what is "indirect." I think it is good that we are helping Mr De Jonge a little bit, because we cannot rely on him doing the good things by default; we have seen that very often.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u70	That's another really nasty suggestion. A very factual question, however: what is the question of the request for advice that this Minister sent to the Health Council? What's it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u71	The request for advice, as it has been done, is about... This also has to do with another motion I have tabled, namely that people give prior consent to the recording of data and that it is registered whether some of the information, for example with regard to vaccination, has been included in a corona passport. That doesn't mean anything about the access. It doesn't say anything about whether that corona passport gives you access to part of society. I think I have just heard Mr Dijkhoff say that it is of course the case that essential services... that is also a strange suggestion. Essential services will, of course, continue to exist for everyone. The question is which places you can or cannot access if your data is not in such a database.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u72	The minister should speak for himself, but the request for advice was about testing, not about vaccination. How do you deal with people who are being tested or not being tested? About vaccinating, we've passed a motion. He says: in any case, you are facing ethical dilemmas in the private sector. I agree with you: I am against compulsion and urge. Vaccination must be a free choice. But you're gonna be in private circles facing ethical dilemmas. Please, let us ask for an ethical framework and, on that basis, discuss it further. Wouldn't that be the royal road? That is a motion that we have adopted ourselves. We have stated, in your motion, in a motion by Mr Wilders, that we want no compulsion and no urge. That's it. We're facing ethical dilemmas. We're asking for an ethical framework. Then please, let's keep talking. Let us not give the impression here that compulsion and urge are still being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u73	Just as an answer to that. My goal is the same as Mr Gert-Jan Segers' goal. Only, the difference is, I can't assume it's true. I really don't have enough faith in this minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The confusion is pretty complete. Yesterday we were anxiously waiting for the letter to come. And in the meantime, all sorts of news came in through the media. Mr President, how many times have you drawn attention to the fact that we should not do so? I thought that's what we agreed. We are the last in Europe to start vaccination, while the vaccines have been waiting for more than a week in Oss. Then there comes a call from Diederik Gommers and Ernst Kuipers to give priority to hospital staff, and then the minister says no, but later on yes. The Minister says: I can now see that we have not proved sufficiently agile to accommodate the changes that have occurred quickly enough. But that agility is absolutely necessary given the ongoing changes. In the vaccination route, an important place is taken by the Moderna vaccine. For example, this would inoculate the general practitioners. Now that the EEA has not approved this yesterday, the strategy is changing again. What's gonna be modified? For example, people over 75 years of age should also receive the Moderna vaccine. But is it certain that this works as well for the elderly as the Pfizer vaccine? We note that there is a great deal of uncertainty among elderly people living at home, who do not know when they will be eligible for vaccination. We really get a lot of e-mails, phone calls and apps about that, like this one, from Mr. Ten Cate. He writes: "I am 72, living at home, have a heart condition and diabetes. Unclear when I am eligible for vaccination." My question is whether you would like to clarify this more clearly, please. The letter says that it is expected that there will be sufficient staff to help the GGDs with pricking. And yet we still see a lot of vacancies online. The Red Cross and Defense are ready to help, but have you thought about the fire department? They're usually well trained, too. They all have first aid anyway, and often even higher. They'd like to help. The chairman of the Security region Gooi and Vechtstreek and the mayor of Hilversum, Pieter Broertjes, made a call last week to the fire department and within 24 hours he had 75 applications in. If only for the supportive functions. Will the Minister consider this helping hand as well? It's all hands on deck. Then how come there's no support from the Defense Department for Hospital Gelderse Valley, when it's pressing for that? Can the Minister explain that? Is he or she going to help the hospital in any other way? I would also like to explain to the Minister for Medical Care the problem of the six hospitals which are now suing because the extra ic-beds would not be reimbursed. We do not understand that here in the Chamber. That can't be true. Hospitals are not allowed to register, due to privacy legislation, which employees have had the corona vaccine. He'll do it in hepatitis B. It may even have consequences for their work if they refuse to be vaccinated. The hospitals have been begging for priority in vaccination, because the water is up to their lips, but then they have to know who is and who is not vaccinated. Why can't this be done with hepatitis B and with corona? Then the lockdown. 50PLUS agrees that the schools do not open earlier. It will be investigated whether or not children can transmit the virus. We are very curious about the results of that study, especially in view of the new British variant. Is the test capacity calculated on the fact that children under 12 are now also going to be tested? Germany will extend the lockdown measures. What are the chances of this happening in the Netherlands? We better do it right than go up and down every time. The number of infections seems to be falling slightly now, even though we haven't seen today's figures, but the hospitals are still seeing a peak in the number of withdrawals. It is, of course, also important to maintain it. For it is hard to believe that there is a demonstration of 1,750 people, without a mouth cap, not at a distance of 1,5 metres. How does the Minister view last Sunday's demonstration in Haarlem? Mr. Chairman. It is a setback that the judge has put a line through the mandatory corona test for returning travellers. The government is going to appeal against this and make it compulsory by means of a ministerial regulation. When will that be arranged? Finally, Mr President. Hopefully code black will not be mentioned or never will be discussed, but we are pleased that the cabinet wants to ban age discrimination, if necessary by law, although ultimately it is the doctors who are in charge of the choice and who will decide on it. It is about vulnerability; it is absolutely not about age. I trust the doctors will make the right choice. Older people's unions are also opposed to lottery, to dice. I'd like to join that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u77	Madam President. Governing is forward-looking, but governing also requires looking back, learning from the past. That's why I once browsed this Christmas period in a book by a distant predecessor of both Prime Minister Rutte and Minister De Jonge: Our program, by Abraham Kuyper. I thought: what would be in this about tackling infectious diseases? In a sense, there is nothing new under the sun, however new this virus may be. One sentence struck me, and I quote: "But whatever one tastes in this field, the best measures, albeit the nature of disease, will always be on the demands of life, on the unwillingness of the careless." I thought that was a word to think about. Actually, it was said at the time, you'll never get it completely under control. Fortunately, medical science has progressed, but still: I am almost certain that Abraham Kuyper would have found an objective like "together we get corona under control" too pretentious, too fixable. Now that we are a few months away, I wonder whether we should recognise that reality, especially when it comes to such a new virus, is far more uncomfortable than what we assume in our strategies, roadmaps and roadmaps. Mutations are taking place, as they are now in the United Kingdom. Vaccines can be delayed or work less well than hoped. At the same time, we cannot keep closing society indefinitely. How do we separate ourselves from the iron logic that corona is the measure of things and that virtually every measure is justified to combat this virus? Mr. Chairman. In that context, I wonder: do we really know what measures will have the most effect in combating the virus, which we should, in particular, focus on? If it is not yet known enough, is the cabinet prepared to investigate this further and to include lessons from the earlier relaxation? This knowledge could greatly help to relax the measures currently in force if this is justified again. We get daily reports of corona infections, hospitalizations and deaths, but do we also know what the collateral damage of the corona measures is? Will the cabinet also take up that investigation and deepen it further? How many healthy years of life have been lost due to delayed operations and treatments? What do fear, loneliness and stress do to people? What about burnouts and depressions? Only if we know more about this can we ultimately be better able to assess the proportionality and necessity of all restrictions, including in future routes. Mr. Chairman. That's like having a Christmas treat around this subject. I also think it is always good for you, from time to time, to take a very critical look at whether we are indeed on the right track or whether that adjustment is necessary. There is, of course, a lot to do today about the vaccination puzzle. That puzzle needs to be laid, Minister De Jonge said. This weekend it seemed as if all the pieces of the puzzle were scrambled together again. Hospital staff, general practitioners and also ggz staff are now eligible as a priority. I do wonder what the downside of that change in exchange rates is. Which people who would otherwise have been eligible will not receive a vaccine? What if this goes on like this and you say to every group that they should be given priority? If everyone gets priority, no one gets priority in the end. How do we ensure that we can actually pursue a strategy that is being deactivated? Mr. Chairman. It is also very important to stress the pressure on acute care. I think we're all getting the signals from those caregivers that care is getting in trouble and that this can't go on like this. Several hospitals have already temporarily closed the doors of the emergency services or general practitioner's office. I hear there is a great need for concrete national agreements on what should happen if this happens in many places at the same time. There is a need for a broad framework for the whole of acute care. To what extent is that now on track, I ask the Minister for Medical Care. And what about the financial support to hospitals to shape the corona care as well? Is there enough budget? I mention the case of Hospital Gelderse Valley. Other court cases have already been mentioned. It's actually embarrassing that this has to end in court. And what about the spread? I hear here and there that the voluntary nature of the distribution can hinder a good and balanced distribution. Can the Minister respond to that? Finally, on testing. The cabinet requires a negative test if you come to the Netherlands from a high risk area. That's understandable. But the test as a condition also raises questions for the follow-up. We are not in favour of participating in society in general unless you can show a negative test. Does the Cabinet recognise that asking for a test certificate in situations other than when crossing the border requires great care and consideration? Mr. Chairman. In this context, it is good to ask for advice on the ethical and legal dilemmas surrounding this issue. That has already emerged in an interrupting debate with Mr Azarkan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u79	Madam President. In our group, too, we have looked at this recess with discomfort and seen that most of Europe is ahead of us in vaccinating its population. Not to mention Israel, which has already vaccinated more than a million of its inhabitants with a first vaccination. Why are they doing it? Why aren't we doing it? Of course I have questions about that. But I do make them realize that it's much easier to ask questions than to answer them. Especially if the questioners do not have to justify themselves for any choice and if those who have to give the answers are paid for everything. I also ask my questions in the knowledge that our work is always human work and our reality is never entirely feasible. Mr Van der Staaij pointed out just now. If this crisis has taught us anything, it is that we are limited, vulnerable people. In other words, like my colleagues, I ask my questions, but I would like to ask them mercifully. My first question concerns the vaccination strategy for elderly people living at home. That is not foreseen until March, when this group is so vulnerable. Also my question: can't that be done sooner? What about homeless people and homeless people? In terms of vulnerability, health and living conditions, they are comparable to residents of a nursing home. Can't they be taken with clients of the ggz at the same time? I would like to thank the Minister and the Cabinet for adjusting the vaccination strategy. It is a complex puzzle, the Minister said, but it is a good thing that adjustments have been made to it. Because with every care provider in the acute care that has been vaccinated, better care can be provided to two, three or perhaps more corona patients. But if those vaccinations go to hospitals now, how do we prevent them from being wasted? How do we ensure that all the vaccines that are delivered there are actually used? Does the cabinet intend to have the second shot later, as other countries do? Is that what we're considering and on what grounds? Is that safe? How do we know that's a right choice? I too am concerned about the mutated variant that has emerged in the United Kingdom. That's what we're all worried about. I have a strong feeling of a flashback with last year, when you also heard a case of someone with corona, somewhere in the south, somewhere in an outskirts of the country. And that's how we hear about this variant that could get around very quickly. If it's true that children are more contagious, what does this mean for education? I believe that Mr Asscher also asked that question. I agree with those questions. The Christian Union is committed to underlining at this point that we, as I said, are already opposed to direct and indirect coercion. We are glad that those vaccines are there, we are glad that the willingness to be vaccinated increases. But we will continue to ensure that that choice is always voluntary. All the more important is communication. We see that Diederik Gommers now uses his own social media channels to provide much information. I welcome tonight's broadcast at the NIS, which also provides more information about this. That's crucial. Then the triage and the so-called black scenario, the letter from the minister of medical care. That triage roadmap was established after extensive consultation in the sector itself. The cabinet says: we hope, of course, that we will never get to that black scenario and we try to stay as far away from it as possible. And yet we do see the huge ethical dilemmas coming towards us when we think through the whole script and the whole scenario. But then our group's question is: is legislation really necessary? If you know that this is a very exceptional situation and if this dilemma is so well thought out in the sector itself, do we really need legislation? Madam President. We're going into the fourth week of a lockdown. We celebrated Christmas and old and new sober, thanks to all the Dutch who have kept to it, who have not turned off fireworks, who have resorted to a game of scrabble. Thanks to all the aid workers who have worked through the holidays and have guarded the order with old and new. I do have the next question. This lockdown lasts until January 19th. We're not supposed to get off that lockdown in one go, but what's the cabinet's strategy? How can we take that road map again when we scale it up and down? How can it give us direction? Finally, Madam President. I started with discomfort and I end with discomfort. We feel discomfort when we look around and see that other European countries and a country like Israel are much further away from vaccination. But there are also many countries for which the vaccine is still very far away. Then we look at other parts of the world. A large proportion of African countries only have a large-scale vaccine available in 2023. That, too, causes discomfort. We call on the Cabinet to make efforts to ensure a fair distribution of vaccines around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr. Chairman. It was the quietest Christmas ever. Insolvencies don't make a sound. Millions of people are silently suffering from the measures taken by this cabinet. The ineffective, disproportionate and harmful measures taken without proper justification. The measures that put us in lockdown for the second time. The pubs, the restaurants, the hairdressers, the shops, the beauty salons and the gyms: everything close just before Christmas. It can't be more cynical and harmful. I feel the pain of the entrepreneurs who can't keep their heads above water anymore. Of course, I'm also trying to imagine how painful it must be to have lost someone to corona or been ill yourself. But I also feel the pain of cancer patients who are not being treated right now. The point is that these matters have only been linked by the Corona approach of this cabinet. Because we've halved the capacity of ic-beds due to budget cuts. Because we determine the policy based on PCR tests. And because we now proved unable to organize the vaccination in a normal, professional way. In this forgiving democratic setting everything can apparently be done, but in business the responsible team had long been fired. Two mistakes are hitting us hard, in particular. Firstly, the lack of ic capacity and secondly, the inability to organise vaccination. An epic failure, which is masked by the fact that it is a matter of care. We've known for ten months that there's going to be a vaccine. How is it that the Netherlands is not prepared for this? How is it possible that the Netherlands initially did not give priority to hospital staff? Why aren't soldiers being deployed to help? The Forum for Democracy is not against vaccines, but we are opposed to a direct or indirect vaccination obligation. Most Dutch people have taken all kinds of vaccines in the past. Well tested vaccines against, for example, polio, whooping cough and measles: always voluntary. Now there are several new vaccines on the market. We all hope, of course, that these vaccines will lead us to return to life for COVID-19, but we must also respect those who, for whatever reason, make the choice not to be vaccinated. Can the Minister once again guarantee that no one will be obliged to take these vaccines and that he will not work towards an indirect vaccination obligation? Can the Minister guarantee that, if enough people are vaccinated, we can stop all the corona measures, such as the lockdown, the one-and-a-half meter measure and the mouth cap? Then the ic capacity. There have been severe cuts in recent years. The number of ic-beds is halved from 2,200 to 1,100 beds. Over the past ten months, we've had to do everything we can to increase the number of Ice Beds, but we didn't do it. What I'm wondering is this. What were the scenarios of the VWS Minister with regard to scaling up this capacity? What was the scenario if the second wave flooded the ic's? Or was the backup plan real that we wouldn't treat people with cancer? I got an e-mail from a concerned daughter-in-law of a cancer patient. She wrote: "My father-in-law is 60 years old and has cancer. I haven't been able to sleep for nights, because his treatment is delayed because of the corona patients." Why was the ready-made covid ship with 500 ICU beds including medical staff refused? How many lives could this ship have saved? Or else a specific coronahospital, on which Forum voor Democratie has already tabled a motion. I'm really looking forward to this minister's answers. If there was no plan or if the choice has indeed been made not to scale up and not to treat people with cancer, for example, then that is seriously reprehensible and we must hold this minister responsible. What is the plan for a possible third wave? Mr. Chairman. There is another point I want to make. Because we're losing our freedom. This cabinet stipulates that we must walk with masks, that we must keep a distance of 1.5 meters from each other, that we can no longer shake hands and hug each other. This cabinet stipulates that 2 million entrepreneurs will pay the bill for the corona policy and go bankrupt. This cabinet stipulates that we must have a vaccine, otherwise we may not be allowed to participate in society. There's no more discussion either. As soon as you deviate from the rapidly changing opinion of the World Health Organisation, you will be denounced and banned from the various platforms. On all fronts, our severely fought freedom is under attack. A freedom that will be reduced within a few months under the guise of a virus that, with the knowledge of today, is far less dangerous than previously thought. People have had enough of all these nonsense measures. The new year was therefore simply introduced with fireworks. A strong signal that the Netherlands wants to be free again. It is not a choice between one's freedom and the other's health. They are both possible, but then the cabinet must be prepared to look for solutions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u82	For the time being, your group chairman can still use all kinds of platforms. He's not banned from it. Today he tweeted. He wrote vaccine in quotes. I don't know what that means. Whether it doesn't exist or whether it's not a real vaccine. I don't know exactly why that's in quotes, but he tweeted that the vaccine was the prelude to the new normal, in which all the measures that have now been taken are permanent. Does Mr Van Haga share that expectation of his group chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u83	That's a question I just asked. It is, of course, intended that we return as soon as possible to the normal that we knew before COVID-19. I hope that will be achieved in any way possible. I have therefore also asked whether we are going to scale down these measures if everyone takes the vaccine. I hear rumors that it's not. I'd hate to hear that, because it would be nice if we could get back on track. I also wonder whether, for example, people who have already had corona should still take the vaccine. These are all questions that I do not know the answer to, and I would like to hear from the Minister what he thinks about them. To your question why my group chairman writes vaccine in quotes: I have no idea. A vaccine is a vaccine. I just said something about vaccines against polio. I've taken so many vaccines in my life. I'm not afraid of a vaccine at all. So I don't quite understand your concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u84	That wasn't my primary question. Maybe I shouldn't have mentioned that at all. My question was: do you share your group chairman's expectation that the vaccine is merely to make all the measures permanent and that it is not at all the intention of the cabinet to scale down the measures? They're not questions he asked. It was really a statement he made. Do you share the expectation that the measures will not be scaled down, but that we will have to keep a distance of 1.5 metres permanently, put on masks, that all measures will be permanent? Do you share that expectation? It was not a question but a statement by your group chairman. Do you share your group chairman's observation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u85	I'll share that concern, yes. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister here to tell us what happens if the group immunity is sufficiently high. I do not know how that is defined, whether it is based on the degree of vaccination or whether it should include the people who have had corona. But if that group immunity is big enough, will we go back to the old normal? I'd like to know. The concern of my party is indeed that it is not, that 70% will be vaccinated but we still cannot shake hands with each other. That would be annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr Van Haga asks a question, but his group chairman answers. He is now turning it into a question again, in the vein of: it is a concern and it might be possible, but I hope it is not so and the cabinet has to say so. If something is claimed, if a statement is made, you must be able to justify it. Mr Van Haga cannot do that. He says, "I hear rumors, vague suspicions, fears." That's different. It is significant that he cannot even convince a loyal member of the FvD Chamber today of the accuracy of his own approach and that that Member of Parliament has expressed today: I do not want to be a part of this anymore. Perhaps you should ask yourself more questions than you should ask the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u87	Yeah, gosh. How am I going to respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u88	Yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u89	The reference to Mr Hiddema may not be something I should respond to here. I am very sorry that he has stopped, but I believe that the line chosen by the Forum for Democracy over the last ten months has not changed. We look at the facts, we ask questions and we draw conclusions. It happens very often that things stick out like weird. RIVM says mouth caps don't work. Dr. ir. Carla Peeters says: the long-term use of mouth caps can even be harmful to health. And yet the cabinet comes with a duty to protect its mouth. Then it is legitimate to ask questions about that. I find it strange that you are often pushed into the corner of the virus wappies or the conspiracy thinkers. That has nothing to do with conspiracy, it simply has to do with a sensible debate about it. If you can convince me that I have to put on a mask because it makes sense, I am open to it, but I have not heard anything about it so far. So it is legitimate to talk about all these things, and the Democracy Forum has done so properly in the last ten months, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A virus happens to you as a society. That's a disaster. But there was another disaster: the approach of this cabinet. The prime minister wouldn't look at Taiwan. Nine months ago, so I told him here, there were only seven dead and today, yes, still seven. The catering industry, which was coronaproof, had to close, while the contaminations took place at home. The VWS minister refused special hospitals. The Prime Minister laughed away my proposal on vitamin D, while many doctors called for it. The nursing homes became death homes because of a lack of mouth caps. And the VWS Minister refused to speed up vaccination even after a debate was launched: it really couldn't. And now we can do it again. We now have at least 11,775 deaths and a broken catering industry and a part of small and medium-sized enterprises. The forthcoming elections will also be affected by the corona crisis. We already asked whether March 17 will not eventually be moved. We didn't get a clear answer. Is that decision taken at the last minute? You can't do that to the congregations, can you? They are already struggling to stamp out the declarations of support that new parties need to participate. My own party has a day of experience with only sixteen municipalities. In Westerkwartier, Woerden, Apeldoorn, Hollands Kroon, all municipalities in South Limburg and Rijswijk were informed that only by appointment people would be admitted to the town hall. That is against the Minister's guidelines, but it is a fact. A Home Office official calls very neatly with municipalities that don't keep to the agreements, but that's how the start fell in the water. At the very least, we believe that there should be extra days now. It is also necessary to clearly communicate with all municipalities once again that such blockades undermine the democratic process. The municipalities of Hollands Kroon and Geleen made it completely furious. In Hollands Kroon an official was beaten up by an official of the Ministry, but then let her know not to change her rules after all. In Geleen our team was told that this month they would only be welcome on four days and then at a certain time. You can't do that. I'd like to draw attention to that. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you, Mr President. The vaccination policy can hardly be followed and surrounded by much wishful thinking. How is it that the Minister needs great pressure from doctors and others in the media to start vaccination earlier? How could it be that until the very last moment it was unclear who should be vaccinated first? This administrative inability has nothing to do with care, because every day counts. The care, the care workers: they can't take it anymore. Regular care is scaled down and necessary operations are postponed. It's heartbreaking. I agree with the questions that have been asked about this. How is it possible that the authorisation to register who has received which vaccine should now be regulated by law? How's the minister gonna get everyone to register that? Has the Cabinet looked at how it is done abroad? The Minister has had eight months to deal with these basic matters. I thought this was supposed to be settled by now. How come after all these months the central direction is still missing? The Minister claims to be frustrated by the poachy decentralised care, but what does he or the Cabinet do about it? How do we fix it? When will people be vaccinated in other crucial, vital professions, such as police officers, fire brigades, boas, our aid workers? They are often the first on the scene when reporting. They need to resuscitate and be in close contact with the people. When will they be safe? And does the Minister have a timeline; a real one and a realistic one? When was everyone inoculated? And that not only once, but also with the second shot. Because the vaccine manufacturers and the regulator say that the effect of the vaccine on delay of the second injection has not been proven. On the basis of what scientific insights does the Minister consider postponement? Are we all going to have a chance of being susceptible to the virus three weeks after the first vaccination? Finally, Mr President. In the nursing homes a lot of work is done with mouth caps that are not safe when working with proven covid patients, so just the blue ones that we can buy in bulk packaging at the supermarket. How is it possible that care workers in nursing homes still have to take care of these covid patients with a risk to their own health and life? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u94	Thank you. We have come to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. Before you put on your mouth cap, I'd like to know if one hour of suspension is enough, in combination with lunch break. I see that a one-hour suspension is enough for the rulers. Well, it's a little longer than an hour, till 2:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u95	We have come to the Government's response. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first debate in 2021. In the division of roles, the idea was that soon Hugo de Jonge will deal with vaccinations, including strategy, testing, including the impact on travel, and will respond procedurally to the questions about the English variant, because we are waiting for further advice this week. He will also say more about the timetable. Then Tamara van Ark, the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, will address the questions that have been asked about regular care, intensive care, including code black, labour market and zoonoses. I will go into the questions that have been asked about the current corona measures, about education and a number of specific questions about the event industry, elections and so on. Maybe something from my side before that. The VWS Minister also mentioned it yesterday in the letter and press statements. You also asked me about it. Of course, as Prime Minister, I am always responsible for the whole cabinet and for everything we do. This is certainly also the case in dealing with such a serious crisis. If things go well, that's good. But even if things don't go exactly as you want, you should certainly appeal to me, and I will always insist that in a crisis more important than always make the right decisions. We are doing our best for decisions to be taken. If you don't make those decisions, you'll stand still and then you'll go backwards. But, indeed, you should appeal to me. We will always be willing to learn from mistakes, so that next time we benefit from them. I myself, in the last press conference after the Council of Ministers for Christmas, said something on a number of occasions about the symbolic first shot that would have been put in a number of countries. I don't think that was very well formulated. Of course, a shot like that is meaningful. In that respect, symbolism is not bad at all. It certainly has meaning. Moreover, it is more than symbolic in a number of countries. In the meantime, the numbers are such that you cannot say that it is purely symbolic. That's what you saw in the letter we sent yesterday. The second point mentioned yesterday in the letter is the question of manoeuvrability. It would have been better if I had asked the GGD to prepare the systems for the eventuality that they should have started earlier with large-scale vaccination. By the way, that is not a complaint to the GDD. On the contrary. There's nothing they can do about it. We could have said ourselves earlier: prepare ourselves for such a situation. This also has to do with the fact that in the order of the vaccines AstraZeneca did not come first, but BioNTech/Pfizer, with a number of specific characteristics. This has also contributed to the lack of agility. That is the kind of point I would like to make before I go into a number of specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u97	Good. I have Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Azarkan. Mrs. Marijnissen first? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u98	The Prime Minister kicks off the debate by indicating what did not go well. I think that's right. I think it's a good thing he does, too. But now we have heard from his Minister of Health that he was biting himself under the Christmas tree, I believe, the exact words 'because the Netherlands turns out to be a bit of the crazy henkie of Europe and we are closing the line where it comes to starting vaccination. How was that for the Prime Minister? Did he bite himself under the Christmas tree, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u99	Yes. Well, the Ruttes don't do Christmas trees, but I've been biting my ass, yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u100	I think that this is a disconcerting picture, because we have here today in a debate the two main players responsible for the corona approach, for the proper roll-out of this vaccination strategy, which we all knew was coming for months, and those two main players are therefore either under a Christmas tree or not. What the hell is that? These two gentlemen are responsible for that in the first place, aren't they? My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: why did you not intervene instead of being bitten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u101	Well, as I just said, in October, November, at least at the end of November, we counted on a certain order of delivery. We thought we'd be well prepared for one type of vaccine, we are, I think, when the other type came. This has a number of very specific features in terms of being frozen and how it is packaged. Then we said: yes, you know, that has to be used in a very different way; for that you need much more large-scale test streets and for that the vaccine is much more suitable. We thought that one vaccine would come first, but it turned out to be wrong. That is precisely the manoeuvrability that was lacking in our approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u102	The manoeuvrability was not only lacking. It's just that there's been a mistake. RIVM has already indicated last weekend: we just gambled wrong; there was just the wrong vaccine and then there was another vaccine at one time and then we weren't ready. That is not understandable if you also know that there have been so many requests here in the Chamber, not only two weeks ago in the debate, but also in all those debates before that. If we're ready, we've been asked by the Cabinet. Yes. Do we have the different scenarios? Yes. The only reason we couldn't start vaccinating was if there were no vaccines. That was the promise. Now they're there in my hometown of Oss, they're all piled up, but we're still not vaccinating. I therefore ask the Prime Minister once again why he has done nothing in recent weeks rather than bite himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u103	Because there was nothing left to do about it at the time. In the debate we had here in the Chamber just before Christmas, I discussed the steps that had to be taken after the vaccine had been approved by the EEA and then the advice from the Health Council. I talked about all the systems that had to be set up in the Netherlands. If this manoeuvrability had not been sufficiently applied by us in the system in November, it would not have been possible to do so in December when we had that debate in the Chamber, or during Christmas. We are, of course, two weeks behind other countries which started on 27 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u104	Do I understand correctly that the Prime Minister says: in mid-November we already knew that the route for this vaccine was not going to be him? If that is the case, then why did we have a whole debate here two weeks ago in which we as a Chamber were still given the guarantee: no, we are ready and it will all work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u105	I believe that the debate then also focused on the fact that we were unable to start right after Christmas and that we would start at the beginning of the year. That's not new now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u106	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u107	The Prime Minister is very laconical about that, but I do not think that is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u108	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u109	Well, I think that's the appeal and I think that's the appeal of the cabinet. It was like, "Oh, what the hell, start a week sooner or later." The Prime Minister himself now comes back to what he said about other countries, such as 'those other countries, that's all symbolic'. Like they were all crazy and we all knew it so well. We were so unique with our infrastructure that we would all settle for a while, but the only thing we are unique in in Europe right now is that we are not vaccinating here yet, that we cannot do it here. We are now unique in that. Is the Prime Minister proud of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u110	No, on the contrary. That's what I'm saying. But I also do not understand why Mrs Marijnissen can infer that I would be laconical about that. If my body language would suggest that, I'd like to take that back, because I'm not at all. I am just saying that the debate we had here just before Christmas was, of course, also taking place against the background of the fact that it was not possible for us to start right after Christmas and that it would indeed be in the new year. That has to do with the reason I just outlined. By the way, Mrs Marijnissen is right when she says that the speed with which you all build up group immunity and vaccination in a country is of course important, but that the speed with which the first injection is made is also important. That, of course, has meaning. Mr Asscher also referred to this. Not only the protection of the collective is important, but also the protection of each individual, so you do not want any delay. So I am very upset that we are two weeks behind other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u111	We're not just two weeks behind other countries. Nor can we carry out the advice of the Health Council. Unlike all those other countries in Europe, we cannot begin where we should start, namely to protect the most vulnerable people by vaccinating them first. I can't. Because the cabinet has gambled wrong and intervened too late again, we are not only the last to start vaccination, but we also do not start vaccinating the group that the Health Council believes should be vaccinated first. How does the Prime Minister look at that when he is biting himself, whether under the Christmas tree or not? Surely it is not acceptable that it is not possible to vaccinate those people who need us so badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u112	I beg to differ on that point, because I believe that we have always had the strategy to ensure that we want to put the vulnerable and the people who care for them first. This vaccine and the specific logistics that it requires, brings with it this delay, which I am very upset about. At the same time, however, it is true that we can now treat the employees responsible for the most vulnerable as quickly as possible. As other vaccines eventually become available, we can of course also move on very quickly to the group itself, for example the home residents and also the people who ultimately depend on them in the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u113	Mr. Wilders. Okay, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u114	Finally, Mr President. What I find most shocking, perhaps, is that there is a Prime Minister here who is now saying that things have gone wrong, but who has apparently not been able to intervene before. I am also curious and I would like to hear from the Prime Minister when it became clear to him exactly that the strategy the cabinet gambled on was not the right one and what he did. Maybe he'll come up with that later. Because it is a very painful and very hard lesson that needs to be drawn here: we are the last to vaccinate and we cannot start with the group that we would all like to start vaccination with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u115	That is, of course, a joint responsibility. We have not asked the GGD before to prepare for the eventuality that the GGD should also start working on large-scale vaccination earlier. That is the honest answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u116	Let me start with a factual question. I think it is difficult for us to conduct the debate without that information. Despite factual questions, we still haven't received that information. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how many of Pfizer's vaccines are currently present in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u117	I am not prepared to do so, but perhaps Mr De Jonge knows exactly that. Yeah, I'm getting a note from him on what the exact last count is. Now there's 164,775 in the freezer. There's gonna be 123 825 today. This means that this week we have almost 300,000.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u118	That's what I was afraid of: 300,000. And let's forget about today's. Then it was around Christmas and then 164.000, 164.000 vaccines that people working in care and vulnerable elderly people would have loved to use. Because you failed with your Health Minister, you call it "we were not manoeuvrable enough"; in normal Dutch, that means that you failed.................................................................................................................................................... Do you have any idea what these numbers... there aren't 10 and there aren't 30. I think it is no coincidence that we only now know from you that it is 164,000 and that it has not been covered up in the last few days and in all the rounds of questions. Do you know what it means that 164,000 people have been denied a shot that can save their lives or at least prevent disease?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u119	Sure, once. That's why we wanted it to start two weeks ago. If we had built in that agility earlier by asking the GGD earlier... The GGD can't help that. That's what I'm saying again. I call it the G.D.D., but then it looks like I'm shoving it off. I'm not. The GGD is blameless here, but we could have asked the GGD ourselves earlier to ensure that they were ready for an eventuality in which they should have started on this scale with large-scale vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u120	Now I'm getting another technical answer about procedures, but I don't feel like the Prime Minister is realizing what he just said. It's not like you had 30 vaccines and you're gonna start with them tomorrow. You had 164,000 vaccines. Do you realize what the people who are watching at home now, the people who are at home and old, the people who are in a nursing home and the nurses, nurses and caregivers in hospitals and nursing homes belong now? We just left 164,000 vaccines in the freezer for two weeks. We didn't do anything about it. Do you realize how big the error or the limited manoeuvrability has been and what consequences this has had for 164.000 people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u121	Yes, in that sense, I have just said that what we said earlier is still true, namely that it is ultimately about the rate of speed in the building up of vaccinations throughout the country. But Mr Wilders, of course, has just one point on which we said that not so much the first shot counts, but what is the end of the game? 'Cause every shot that's put in there provides protection for that individual. He's just got a point there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u122	It's not about me making a point. The point is that 164,000 people, and if you divide that by two, almost 100,000 people, could have had previous health. Not getting sick, being able to go to the hospital or nursing home of care staff while they feel protected and knowing that they cannot infect the elderly themselves, could have been sooner. The elderly themselves, whether living at home or not, could have been vaccinated and gotten a piece of freedom back. They could have been helped. A city of 164,000 people is screwed because you've been sleeping alone and misjudged. Two weeks may seem short, but for two weeks 164.000 people abstain from a vaccine... you should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u123	Well... I agree with Mr Wilders in that, of course, every shot counts, but I think he is now making very final conclusions. I agree with him on his own: every shot counts. What you see here is that where we were counting on a different authorisation and were not sufficiently manoeuvrable to switch to this degree of large-scale vaccination, this results in delays in relation to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u124	Why are we agile now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u125	I think my answer to that is as follows: for a few reasons. First of all, we have now made sure that all the streets that are there to ensure that you can vaccinate whether it is the GGD that is doing it large scale or the institutional doctors, general practitioners or employers in health care, especially on the cure side and sometimes also in care care services are really all ready. You are then agile if for example AstraZeneca sooner, what we hope, or in larger quantities will deliver. Then you can also bring in the home residents between 60 and 75. Questions have also been asked about this; Mr De Jonge will discuss this in greater detail. Why isn't that in the middle of March? This has to do with what we now expect, still quite conservative, about the delivery schedule. But you want to bring that up, of course. This also applies to elderly people living at home over 75 years of age and those between 60 and 75 who are not mobile. You want to bring that up, too. That has to do with the speed with which Moderna delivers. You can see that we are able to switch between these different types of vaccines, both in terms of the orders that have been made and the expectations in which they are delivered and in terms of all the streets that exist, through institutions, large-scale locations or general practitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u126	It is a long answer, but what is different in everything the Prime Minister now says about what had already been agreed before Christmas? What has changed in concrete terms? Where's extra scaled up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u127	The problem wasn't the scaling up. The problem for Christmas was that on 1 December we heard about EEA's authorisation to advise on 29 December. That would be about the AstraZeneca vaccine. Then we also said: if everything goes well, it will be 4 January. Well, that's going to be January 6th and the invitations went out on January 4th. But what we noticed is that this was brought forward. In the end, this decision by the EEA has been speeded up. That is good news in itself, but because of all the problems with packaging, freezing and the fact that they are packed in batches of almost 1,000, it was no longer possible to switch quickly at that time, which of course we would have liked to do, at those large-scale GGD streets. That problem has been solved in the sense that these GGD streets are now there and will all enter into force in the coming days. Of course, the other channels such as the home and institution doctors are now there. You can now also switch faster if a certain vaccine would become available more quickly. You can see that in the flowchart. In this you can see how we want to use certain vaccines to protect groups as quickly as possible, so that you can bring other groups forward. That agility is in there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u128	I'm not gonna say this to the Prime Minister soon, but this is just not true. The institutional doctors were already ready to inoculate. The big problem now is that the problem before Christmas has been solved, or solved: it just runs according to schedule. On 18 January, the GGD vaccination streets were fully manned: for 66,000 vaccinations per month. Sorry, "a week," I have to say. The cabinet says sorry for the fact that it wasn't manoeuvrable enough in 2020, but nothing has been done to be more agile in the coming period. Is the amount of large-scale testing sites scaled up? Have more people been hired to test? If there is to be an accelerated vaccine that should be given on a large scale again, there is no capacity for that. What has this Prime Minister done in recent weeks to solve not only the problem we had with the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine, but also for all the vaccines that are still coming? What happened there in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u129	The problem we had is exactly what I think we are talking about now and also in the previous interruptions, namely that we were not sufficiently quickly able to stamp the large-scale GMD test sites out of the ground when it appeared that the other vaccine was coming, which is why we asked. Now that's happening, so there are. In the coming period, we will continue to employ staff. Hugo de Jonge will go into that in a moment with the exact figures. We are now able to use the vaccines that are available as soon as possible. But if tomorrow everything we have ordered, the total number of 50 million vaccines, arrives in the Netherlands, then we cannot place them all in one day. I can't. But we are now able to do so with the delivery schedule we expect. And even if things go faster, what we hope for, we can also switch between the different vaccines, so that we can bring groups forward. Then we have the necessary agility. Is that one hundred percent? Once again, if all vaccines are awarded tomorrow and all are delivered at once, then of course you need more time. Then you can't place them all. That's impossible. But you now really have the agility that is needed to apply what is in the house as quickly as possible. We hope, of course, that Moderna will be approved soon and we hope, of course, that it will not take long with AstraZeneca afterwards. Then we are able to switch between the different ways to give people that vaccine at the institutions, the general practitioners and the GGD vaccination sites. We will then be able to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u130	I am really worried about this answer. Yesterday there was a letter, a so-called update of the vaccination strategy. In fact, it just explains again how the line is finally going to be designed and that it will actually work out in January according to all the deadlines that were there, perhaps a few days earlier or perhaps a few days later. But we are also having the debate about how we are going to ensure that we do not make the same mistakes as last year. Because if we are surprised by the vaccine coming sooner, we need to be able to act. I say to the Prime Minister: we are not ready for that, because then we do not have the capacity in order. Instead of repeating what I was able to read in the letter, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what additional steps we are going to take, what additional locations will be opened and what additional staff will be hired. Because the almost hollow words'say' are not enough. Because where do we recognize this from? We got exactly the same answers when it came to testing strategy. Then it was said: there are enough people, the GGD can hire these people, external parties are ready to deliver all people for the source and contact research. But it took eight months to get that all in order. Eight months! These answers are therefore not sufficient. The Prime Minister must reassure the Chamber and reassure the Netherlands. What additional steps are being taken to ensure that the vaccines, once they are in the Netherlands, are not in a depot for weeks, but that we can inoculate immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u131	As I just said, we are now ensuring that there is sufficient capacity so that we are able, with all the agility that is needed, to do what is necessary. Then there is a whole plan to ensure that capacity is further, further and further built up in the coming weeks and months. Hugo de Jonge will go into that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u132	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u133	Every time the Prime Minister refers to Hugo de Jonge, to the Minister of VWS, but I actually want to hear it from him. Because, yes, I am critical of the functioning of the VWS Minister, I think there are problems there, but the Prime Minister is right to say: I am ultimately responsible for the corona policy. That's why I'm asking him to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u134	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u135	The mistakes made in vaccination policy are so great that I believe that the Prime Minister should draw this much more towards himself. That's why I'm just asking you about this and I want an answer from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u136	The answer I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u137	No, I want to know how to proceed, because he referred to the Minister of the United States of America, who will then be further scaled up in the near future. In what way are we going to make sure that we can actually inoculate later? Don't refer to the US Secretary of State, because it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u138	I just explained that. We are doing this by ensuring that the capacity, where it is needed, is further scaled up in the near future. Do so by ensuring sufficient puncture capacity and sufficient support. We also use all the assistance offered to do so. This will make sure that everything that is needed will be adjusted in the near future, so we hope, of course, that this situation will occur and that these vaccines will be delivered on a much larger scale than we think. I'll just say...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u139	One final question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u140	But I'm telling you, to finish the answer, there's a limit to it. There is a time when it can happen so quickly that vaccines can be delivered....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As we expect now, we can do what we have to do and build it further. And if it is indeed much faster than we think, we are able to keep up with it in a far-reaching way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u141	What a complete vagueness: that there are enough people to vaccinate, that there are enough locations, that there are enough, that there are enough... Over the past ten months we have constantly heard that there are enough people, that there is enough source and contact research, that there are enough protective equipment. Make it concrete. "Enough," you're not getting away with that now. Make it concrete. How many people are there? How many people will be immediately available to inoculate at the 25 locations of the GGD, so that 66,000 people can receive vaccinations every week? How many people can that be up to? How many people are coming in? Those 400 were in the letter. There is now a whisper in the cabinet: 400 people. Yeah, we already know that, we already knew that, even in December. I do not ask what we knew in December, when we had a debate on 17 December, but I ask you what extra is being done. What else is being done? I think the answer to that question is because I have already asked this six times, and otherwise I will have to come back: zero, nothing, nada, nope. Compared to December, nothing extra is being done and that is very, very, very worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u142	Here's what's ready right now. We will therefore look, in the near future, at how we will take care of what is needed to further develop that capacity, also as the delivery schedules would adapt. I also said that there are groups of people who can be joined if necessary. Again, you're asking for the exact numbers...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u143	No, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u144	You ask for the precise responsibility. Just for a second. My responsibility is to ensure, overall, that the strategy is implemented as well as possible and that mistakes are made, and that they are admitted here too. I'm not running away from that. But if Mr Klaver asks me, while we have a division of roles, in which I explain that overall strategy and Hugo de Jonge will go into more detail about all aspects of it; if Mr Klaver asks me what is in the pile in our distribution of roles at Hugo de Jonge, namely the exact figures on how fast the capacity continues to rise; if he asks me now, I want to answer that too. But I would ask him to do so in the second term. Then I'll be able to look for the exact numbers. If he is now asking me, as Prime Minister, to have all these figures put in place exactly behind the decimal point, that is not possible, but he can count on me to feel very responsible for that, just as Hugo de Jonge feels responsible for that. If there's a mistake or something's not going right, we'll admit it here, too. He can always count on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u145	Finally, really. It's not about admitting mistakes, it's about what you learn. And to say that in a general sense you are responsible for the strategy... It is now very important. This is Chefsache. To refer to the VWS Minister, where it has gone wrong so many times: that is not enough. If the Prime Minister is not ready now, he is not ready, but I expect him, even in the next debates, to have those figures on vaccination ready. This is the core. This should go well. This is the way to get out of the lockdown, to get some control of the virus. This can't go wrong. That's his responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr Klaver can always appeal to me about mistakes, to things that are not going well, to the strategy. Always. But I don't think it's reasonable for him to expect me to have all the figures and details from all the people in the cabinet ready for the debate right away. If he wants to know that from me, I'm willing to deliver it, but I'll tell him to give me a chance to get those figures exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u147	The Prime Minister acknowledges that the cabinet is late with the vaccines and does not trivialize them, as happened before the recess. I think that's right. When did the Prime Minister realize that the cabinet is too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u148	In the last few weeks. I just said that the annoyance of Christmas, which Hugo de Jonge also told us about, with or without a Christmas tree, was of course part of that. What we saw and established with each other in recent days is: if we had asked that question to the Health Service, as it says in yesterday's letter and as I repeat here, we could have been prepared for such a situation earlier. We thought, of course, on the basis of all the assumptions we had, that this EEA approval would be there with a time schedule afterwards for approval by the Health Council and all the things that need to be done in the Netherlands, which allowed you to start from January 4th. That's almost done, too. But it went much faster. We did not say in time, in November, to the GGD: boy, try to prepare the scenario that it is not BioNTech/Pfizer but for example AstraZeneca or Moderna if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u149	When has the Cabinet been informed that it comes in doses of 975 and that it should be kept at -70°C, -80°C?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u150	That question has indeed been asked. It's all from October. Then in the months of October, November, all experts, including RIVM, investigated what you can or can't do with that packaging. The conclusion was at a certain point that it was terribly difficult to do things differently. So that wasn't new. But what was new was the rate at which the vaccine was approved and that it was a different vaccine than we thought. That is why I say that it is not a question of being surprised by the special packaging or freezing conditions of the vaccine. The problem was that it was a luxury, but in the end it was also a problem for the Netherlands that it was approved so quickly, while in another vaccine we were counting on it was the case later. Because of this, we were no longer able to make that switch. That flexibility was lacking. It's not that we didn't know that BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine was coming, but it was about the speed and the fact that we weren't able to switch to those large-scale vaccine locations then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u151	However, in yesterday's letter, yesterday's cabinet is asking for this to happen, so I assume that it still has to be done at RIVM to investigate the option of distributing the same vaccine, which we have known since October, to the nursing homes, in accordance with the advice of the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u152	Under special circumstances. This only applies to very large nursing homes, probably only once, and only if they are able to drive it out to the satellites themselves. That is quite different from using the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine via the general practitioners. RIVM also says that this is simply not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u153	I hadn't asked my question yet. The point is: in October, the Cabinet will know that this vaccine has these characteristics and that we will have to adapt to them, as will all the other countries that know it from October. These are the countries with which we compare ourselves. The cabinet is relying on the first opinion and is now asking for a different opinion. As a result, therefore, it is not a matter of one week or a symbolic prick of some 300 000 vaccines in the freezer that we can use to protect people. So the question is: what conclusion does the Prime Minister draw that, not for the first time in this crisis, one is too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u154	Just so you know, it's very specific. Then I come to the question, which is rightly asked. The fact that that vaccine is frozen and packaged and so on is not new. During November, it became clear that it is extremely difficult to apply it differently. In our planning we have of course taken into account an admission from 4 January. Then it could've all just happened. Well, on January 6th, but very close to January 4th. In any case, the invitation was issued on 4 January. What is different, of course, is that it has been brought forward. That approval did not come at the end of December, but came on 21 December. Countries then started applying it on 27 December. We didn't have that agility. Then in November we should have said to the GGDs: please also prepare for the alternative, that we should get to work on this vaccine sooner with these special conditions, which means we need these large-scale locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u155	This sounds a bit excuseful, doesn't it? In the debate in December, Klaver asked: "How do you need to build a registration system now? Why is ICT needed for this? You had months to do that. You knew it was necessary, whatever vaccine would come first." The second argument was that the bell scripts weren't there yet. That's also something you can make in advance. Waiting for the advice of the Health Council is not so convincing. Now the surprise is that the vaccine is coming sooner, but that would imply that we are now perfectly ready, but that is not true at all. My follow-up question is then: how long will it take for those 300,000 vaccines that are now in the freezer to be put?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u156	We expect that to happen in the course of January. If that's exactly what you want to know, we can check it out. But let's talk about the bell scripts. The point wasn't so much that those call scripts weren't there yet, or that there wasn't an IT system yet. The main point was, of course, that getting this specific vaccine available faster than we thought, frozen, in that packaging, etc... For this you can actually only work so well through those large GMD vaccination sites. They're being set up right now. They're starting. They weren't there at the time. That's exactly the point I started. That agility, in which you would have told the GGDs to prepare for that scenario, we did not have in November. That's where the problem is. Those other things are all happening. The planning, which we thought there was and which Hugo de Jonge was still attacked on at that time, he says January 4th! It appears to be a two-day process. But the sad thing is that that is a completely different battle, because meanwhile the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine turned out to be there earlier and came the vaccine that we thought would come sooner, later. That maneuverability was missing. I really think that is a lesson that we need to learn from this: you just have to make sure that there is maneuverability in it. Of course, this has to do with Mr Klaver's question about how many people are working on all these matters, but it had to do with the fact that the whole channel, namely the large-scale locations for the GGD, was not finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u157	I think that "frugality" is some kind of euphemism and that the problem is something else. I think the cabinet always relies on a schedule to be ready just in time. That was the case with the source and contact research. The fact that reality does not comply with this is logical in this crisis. That's where I'm concerned now. I think the main task for the cabinet is to vaccinate as many people in the vulnerable group as possible as soon as possible. That's the Health Council's advice. You can also see that this happens in all kinds of places, with more or less success. We have already secured every older or vulnerable person who has been vaccinated. You have come to the conclusion in recent weeks that you were late, or in your words "not manoeuvrable enough," but it is not enough to say: we are moving on as planned. I do not think that the spread of vaccinations, which was given in response by Minister De Jonge, is sufficient. I would ask you to make a scenario in which as many people in the vulnerable group, especially the elderly, are vaccinated as quickly as possible. That means you're gonna have to put on a lot more vaccines a lot faster. So that's not the rolling out of the plan that was previously devised and more agile. "More manoeuvrable" implies that this is in line with the question that Klaver asked, that you are now going to do more about it, that you are learning a lesson from the fact that you are now too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u158	I do not agree with Mr Asscher on this point. All concessions about manoeuvrability remain, but we found and find that vulnerable and those who care for them are the first to be addressed. As far as I am concerned, this includes the staff in acute care, because you will only be very vulnerable and dependent on a bed in the hospital or in intensive care. That group is right to be part of it, so we added it. That fits the strategy. The vaccine we now have from BioNTech/Pfizer, with its characteristics, can only be applied properly through large-scale locations. That is why we say: we are now focusing as much on the people who are responsible for the most vulnerable people as possible; we are going to vaccinate them. As soon as the AstraZeneca vaccine, which would be the most beautiful, becomes available, you can use it more quickly to help the older people who still live at home via the same GGD-test streets. Then comes the important group that Mr Asscher is asking for, the residents of the nursing homes and the people with learning difficulties in an institution. That's a big group of people. Of course, you want to bring it forward as much as you can. This can be done via the Moderna vaccine if there is; that is the fastest. If this is not necessary, it could also be done via the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine, via the institution doctors. We've asked if we can. But then there are a limited number of locations and all the conditions I just mentioned. That has to do with preventing waste. Then you will also be able to bring forward the group Mr Asscher asked for attention to, those living at home who are over 75 years old and those under 75 years old who are not mobile. We all want to do that. However, the delivery of the different vaccines is crucial. My conclusion to Mr Asscher is: you cannot just say that you are going to vaccinate only the vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u159	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u160	I feel that the Prime Minister may not have the information needed. In Germany they now work with the same vaccine, the Pfizer vaccine. They certainly choose to vaccinate the nursing home residents as well. The supposed impossibility of repacking those large packs, without much waste, turns out to be very relative. This is also apparent from the fact that yesterday's cabinet asked to investigate this again. My question is this. Is the Prime Minister prepared to have a scenario developed or investigated, in which you are now on the largest scale possible that BionTech/Pfizer vaccines will also be used to vaccinate nursing home residents? Because the information we've been given...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u161	We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u162	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u163	Advice has now been asked on this: to see if it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u164	One minute the Prime Minister says: no, that is very small; that is nothing, and that is why I am only now asking. The second moment he says, we're just doing that now. Let's take each other a little bit seriously. The cabinet is pursuing a vaccination strategy that is difficult to follow, especially because it is said to be a side step. That's all at your service. What we are talking about now is that we are going to vaccinate as many people as possible as soon as possible. There's 300,000 in the freezer. No one's been vaccinated yet. No word games. I ask the question: are you prepared to work out the scenario where as soon as possible, not according to the streaked schedule but as soon as possible, as many people as possible from the advice of the Health Council are vaccinated, so you are indeed going to repack, to use the jargon? Are you prepared to do so, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u165	What I was just trying to say is that our strategy is precisely to make that possible as soon as possible through the locations of the nursing homes. I just explained that. But it is a little more complicated than Mr Asscher is describing. Because why did RIVM also say on 24 December: it cannot be done through the general practitioners? Let me mention that variant. Of course, that's the smallest possible location. That is not possible, because it simply leads to too much being lost in its complexity. What we have now asked for is: research into the possibility of small-scale deployment in nursing homes and disability care institutions, i.e. smaller locations. And we think that this could be done by working through the large institutions, which then themselves take responsibility for ejecting the vaccine to the satellites, so to the smaller houses that are part of a larger institution, so that there is a need to deliver to one address and the institution ensures that distribution takes place to nearby locations. That's what we're gonna do. That is also entirely in the strategy that was sent to the Chamber yesterday. Then institutional doctors are able to vaccinate residents of nursing homes and people with intellectual disabilities in an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mr. Asscher, I've said "finally" a few times. That doesn't just apply to you. I see you're all rested. It is now really the last point and I will go to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u167	Mr President, you are right. It is sometimes difficult in these debates with the Prime Minister, because if you think you're going to get somewhere, if there's a mistake and it's said "we're going to do it differently; we're going to vaccinate faster," then it ends with the answer "and we're going to stick to the agreed strategy." That can't be both true. Or you didn't find out under the Christmas tree: this is not going well, we're going to do it differently. Then the Chamber asks, "What else are you gonna do?" And then a general reference to maneuverability is unconvincing. It's too important for that. Or you're going to say in a word game: this was always the strategy and it's nice that you agree with us. That's where it ends, of course. My sincere question is: do you want to try to vaccinate as many people as possible, as is happening all over Europe, instead of falling back on the plan as it was planned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u168	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u169	And that's more than just saying: we're working on manoeuvrability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u170	I am taking two things apart, because I think Mr Asscher and I agree more with each other than he is suggesting. The point of manoeuvrability has to do with what did not go well in November. Then we should have asked the GGDs: think also about the scenario of large-scale locations. We didn't do that back then. That's the point of maneuverability. What he is now calling attention to is for the following. All I'm saying is that our first strategy is to vaccinate vulnerable people and those who care for them as soon as possible. And he says: can you do more in there to vaccinate the vulnerable themselves besides the caregivers? The answer to that was also sent to the Chamber last night. So that's all just come out. We look, where that vaccine from BioNTech/Pfizer is not suitable for the level of the general practitioner, or that is possible at the level of the larger institutions with smaller locations, where the institution takes responsibility for distributing between the different locations of that institution. We also asked for advice on this. And then you reach a potential of 155,000 extra people in one go. The advantage of this is that if that Moderna vaccine becomes available, you can use it earlier for another group that has rightly been called attention to this: the elderly living at home who are over 75 years of age or the elderly between 60 and 75 years of age who are not mobile.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u171	The Prime Minister is in charge of the strategy. Now he says: in November we actually forgot not to bet on one horse but on two or three horses. He calls that "feasibility," "flexibleness." What difference does it make that the Prime Minister did not take any direction on that point to ask what a possible alternative scenario could do, especially if you see that that request was made from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u172	In any case, I found the approach convincing at that time, namely that, given all the plans that were there and the good news from the end of November/beginning of December from 4 January, but perhaps on 4 January, you could start at the earliest. I didn't expect that to be a few weeks earlier. That's what happened in the end. In itself good news for the rest of Europe, but at that time the Netherlands did not have the opportunity to realize those large-scale locations in time to start also from, say, third Christmas day. So that's not something I could have taken control of at the time. Yeah, if I'd seen it then, probably Hugo de Jonge would've seen it, and he'd have taken control of it himself. That is not a question of "taking the lead," which is a matter of working at that time on the basis of the best insights we had. If you look back on it now and take the lesson out of it, you say: manoeuvrability is very important and at this point we should have had that scenario "if only that..." worked out by the GGD. We didn't, but it's not like I saw it at the time and thought, "I'm just gonna shut up." No, I agreed with the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u173	This is the biggest crisis of the last 70 years. Now the Prime Minister says: we have a lot of uncertainty. We always learn that you work in uncertainty with scenarios. Then what makes the Prime Minister say: I saw the Minister of VWS bet on one horse and I was okay with that? In retrospect, that was just wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u174	The Minister of VWS doesn't bet on one horse. If you look at the strategy he has been the initiator of, along with Jens Spahn, and then have joined Italy and France, already before the summer, to arrive at a, then, joint procurement strategy of these four countries on vaccination. That was then taken over by the European Commission. If you see what has been done about orders by now, and what percentage of the Netherlands gets from them, then you can't say that this minister of VWS, or me, or this cabinet, was on one horse. In that particular issue of large-scale vaccination sites and whether they were needed before Christmas, or just after Christmas, I shall say 26, 27, 28 December, we thought: no. Because we had the planning in our head, and looking at it afterwards it has not been wise to build in the agility to ask these GGDs to "work out the scenario that you need to be ready with earlier." Then we could have started on 27 December, or 28 December or 29 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u175	This is precisely the question I asked, at the time, to the Minister of the United States of America, last December 17th. Would the question to the GGD in November to take into account another vaccination strategy have led us to start earlier? The answer was: well, that's not to say. I've re-examined the Acts. I see Mr De Jonge. So that's just not true. It's just not true that it couldn't have gone any faster. So it turns out that if we had, we could have started on 27 or 28. That's just what the Prime Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u176	The exact date cannot be exactly pricked, because you have to realize that if that permission had come sooner, a number of steps should still have been taken. That was still the way it works at that time after an EEA decision in the Netherlands, and I think that the advice from the Health Council should also be very sensible, to confirm which groups this vaccine is most effective for and how to fit it in, including in your distribution strategy. Then you should have incorporated that into all the systems at the same time. So I don't know if it would have worked out on December 27th, but it had been before January 4th, with the first shot on January 6th.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u177	Finally. Just looking at the future. What can we learn from other countries around us that are already in full swing? What have they done better than us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u178	The Germans, of course, have developed those large-scale puncture sites, those vaccination sites, so they were able to switch to them a little faster. Of course, this also has to do with the fact that they have other systems for general practitioners and so on. But they have an advantage. You can also see that in a number of countries, look at France: there is the last report that 500 were posted yesterday or the day before yesterday; that was a message from the French press. In Germany, I say on the basis of figures I have seen, you are talking about some quarter of a million dollars in Italy about 100,000. In a number of other countries these numbers are very small. Denmark is still relatively farthest, given the size of the population and the number of vaccines placed. So it's a very different picture, but of course that has to do with this very point: did you have the logistics associated with this particular vaccine in order at that time? For the Netherlands: yes, we would have it in order and we also have it in order at the beginning of January. In hindsight, you'd say, "If only we'd gotten it together two weeks earlier." I don't know if you could have started, for the reasons I just mentioned: the Health Council, correcting all systems. I do not know if it would have been possible on 27 December, but we would have been before 6 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u179	Please continue. No, sorry. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u180	I wasn't sure there were any more people on the waiting list for an interruption. In response to Mr Asscher, the Prime Minister said that in the autumn we knew that the Pfizer vaccine should be kept at -70°C. At that time, we might have been able to give that order to the G.D.D. sooner. We already knew from June/July that Pfizer should be kept at -70°C. That came from all the ongoing tests and tests with that vaccine. Why hasn't the consultation with the GGD started already before the summer on the basis of that information, in the vein of: hey, there might be a vaccine that is more complicated than the other vaccines, so let's prepare another route for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u181	For reasons which I mention, namely that all indications were that their approval would come at the end of December. It has finally accelerated by more than a week, and a number of countries started immediately after Christmas. That's where the manoeuvrability question is. We in the Netherlands should have said to the GGDs earlier: please prepare for that. Because we knew those specific conditions of the vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u182	That's right. But it is also not the case that in October/November, when the European Commission concluded the contract with Pfizer, the Cabinet said at that time to the GGD: perhaps 170,000 vaccines will come from Pfizer in December, and you will be prepared to do so. This mission to the GGD came much later than the mandate of the European Commission. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u183	What I can now examine so quickly is that we were told at the end of November, beginning of December: we can start at the earliest on 4 January. That was the moment Hugo the Young came out and said this. Good news. Then, in December, it became apparent that this was being brought forward and that a European moment was being made on 27 December. We then established this together: we are not going to make it, because the locations are not ready in time. That is the debate we had just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u184	Those GGDs finally got that assignment. Good thing the Prime Minister says they've gone to work very hard...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u185	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u186	...to get that done. I read an interview with the project leader of the GGD Gelderland-Midden, who will vaccinate on Papendal. He indicated: we are used to getting this type of vaccination programmes on a large scale at sports locations, but we are allowed to put 350 vaccines a day from the VWS ministry in the coming period, while we could do a lot more. That is why I wonder: could they do more if these deliveries are also delivered? It is also a bit of a shame to spread the stock we have over the time available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u187	At the risk that Mr Klaver says 'you should know exactly', I would ask Hugo de Jonge to answer this question. If you insist I do it myself, I'll get back to you. 'Cause I just don't have that ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u188	That is fine by me: answer from the Minister or else in the second term. What I am talking about, and I said this in my first term, is: the planning presented yesterday offers a perspective, but it is really the practice in the coming weeks that has to prove whether this confidence is right. A lot of people are just looking for the numbers. What are the deliveries per week and what is the number of doses per week? If the cabinet can give more insight into this debate, it will help to restore confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u189	We're gonna try to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u190	Then I have Mr Wilders and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u191	I would like to speak to the Prime Minister about the elderly in the Netherlands, especially now that we have left the few hundred thousand vaccines in the freezer, when people could have just gotten them if they wanted to. I do so not only because it is often a choice for them between isolation or no isolation, or a choice between life and death, but also because it is precisely that group that puts a great deal of pressure on the ic's. Then I'm not just talking about the 60-plussers, but also about the 75-plussers. Let us bring forward and vaccinate the group planned in March together with the rest of us who will be given priority. I understand you can't give everyone priority, but this group can. Again, that was also the advice of the Health Council. Bring them forward and include them from now on, starting this week. Then you hit three birds with one stone: the ic's are more relieved because this group makes the most use of it, the people are more free and the struggle for life or death ends more often with life than with death. So my question is: do it just like the British did. I believe they have started with 80-plussers and they have now voluntarily vaccinated almost all 80-plussers. At least that has been a good result.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u192	I would love to, but I must be careful not to promise Mr Wilders something that is not possible. So we need to look at it very carefully. We're gonna try to bring out groups if we can. But we do not know how quickly, for example, AstraZeneca can deliver. If that is fast, then we can do much sooner than we now hope to inoculate the people who work in nursing homes, in disability care, so I am talking now about workers in community care or in the Wmo. Then we can give them that AstraZeneca vaccine. As soon as you can, you can bring forward an important group that Mr Wilders also refers to, the people living at home from 60 to 75 years. They are now in the middle of March, but you could bring them up in that scenario. I'm not gonna promise anything, because it really depends on if it all works out. Two. The residents of nursing homes are now pretty much in the planning phase from the beginning of February. Of course, you'd like to do that as soon as possible. The group living at home over 75 years of age, which Mr Wilders also refers to, is now also on mid-March. But of course, that is only possible if you look at whatever vaccine you need. That's the Moderna vaccine. We hope that will get all the approval in the next few days. Then you will be able, for example, to have the residents of nursing homes and people with learning difficulties in an institution, hopefully as soon as possible, use the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine, if you manage to use it in those institutions as well. That is just what the discussion with Mr Asscher was about. Then the Moderna vaccine has been approved and you would be able to bring forward the group that is now in the middle of March. This is a cautious planning. Of course you would like to, but if I promised now that we could do that, it would be at the expense of other groups. What I just mentioned is large numbers, even if it's just drops on a glowing plate when you look at the total numbers of people who need to be vaccinated, including in the risk groups. Then you really talk about millions and millions of people. So it's not that easy to bring a group forward in the puzzle that you see here and which has been looked at very carefully without at the expense of other groups. Unless we are indeed able, because another vaccine is being delivered, to put a particular group on that other vaccine. That's the agility we built in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u193	It's certainly not simple. However, I would like to return to that group of residents over 75 years old, along with those of 60 and 75 years old. Take a look at whether you can bring both groups forward and whether you can bring those group 75-year-olds and older... You say: we are dependent on Moderna, but I have a message for me from de Volkskrant of December, in which they refer to the American FDA. The FDA's underlying figures would show that Moderna works less well with those older people. Usually, Moderna works in people who have been vaccinated 94%, but in 65-plussers, the percentage falls to 86.4%, while the Pfizer vaccine is 93%. The Moderna vaccine is therefore the least suitable, at least almost 10% less suitable for the group that you have made in the pink state of home residents over 75 years old. That's a lot of trouble, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u194	The tricky thing is that because of the distribution problems, you can't just put that group on that BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine. What you can do is this. If we can use the Pfizer vaccine on a much larger scale for residents of nursing homes, then you can do a piece of vaccination of home residents over 75 years of age. For the group between 60 and 75 it is provided anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u195	Finally, Mr President. My plea is as follows. One. Get all people over 70 years old. I've called them the 70-year-olds; you mention here 60-75 and 75 and older, but at least older people over 70 years old. Not just in March, but preferably try to get them to January, if you can, with whatever vaccine you do; I would do the most effective thing. Even if you do so in part, it already reduces the pressure on hospitals to a maximum, in addition to what it means to those people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u196	Agreed. We're gonna try. Maybe Hugo de Jonge can go into that later. I just outlined how we're trying to move between those different vaccines. I get the whole point, and I wouldn't want anything more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u197	Mr Klaver and then Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u198	I still have a very factual question. At the beginning of November it became clear that BioNTech/Pfizer had the best results and that they could quickly enter the market. It was not until 7 December that the GGDs were ordered to scale up. What happened in the cabinet in the intervening six weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u199	We assumed that this authorisation, as provided for by the EEA, would be "what was it at that time?" At the end of December. And we heard that on December 1st. That is also when the criticism of Hugo de Jonge was: then you promise something again. The special thing is that it has also succeeded, but it turned out to be there much earlier. No, it's no big deal that something worked out. Whoa, whoa. Otherwise, it's faint again from my side. I mean to say it worked out, but it turned out to be available earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u200	That wasn't my question. My question is what the cabinet did between the beginning of November and 7 December. The argument that market access had been settled two weeks earlier is not a reason not to order the GGDs to scale up already. If you know at the beginning of November that BioNTech/Pfizer has the best results, that they can get on the market very quickly, and you don't order the GGD to scale up, what the hell happened in those six weeks? I would very much like a very specific answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u201	Then I'm going to give you exactly what happened in second term every week. I don't have that ready here. I can only tell you that at that time, of course, advice was also requested from the authorities, and that is what finally happened, in the course of November, about the question: are you able to drive that vaccine small-scale because of the packaging and because of the freezing situation? The answer to that was: you shouldn't do that. That's what the letter says. We checked that again at the RIVM, now again, for the general practitioners on 24 December. Then the advice was again: don't do that. Now we're going to look very seriously: are you able to use it in those large-scale nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u202	Then we will have an extensive debate in the second term, if only then. I'll wait for it, but to be honest, I don't get it. This is simply information that is relevant for the first term of this debate. If you've apologized, if you say "I'm sorry, we should have started earlier and we're learning from this," what did you learn? What did you miss in those six weeks? If we don't get an answer to that, the "sorry, we could have done better" actually seems pretty gratuitous. But we will come back to that in the second term. The question I have to ask the Prime Minister is really worrying, because I think that the major problems are in the organisation and certainly in the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America is what he is going to change in the crisis organisation and the crisis structure in order to prevent this kind of error.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u203	It's not a question of adapting to a crisis structure. It has to do with keeping each other sharp to maintain maximum agility in the system. So it is not a question of the crisis structure, because it is a state. That's what the best people in the world are working on. However, I must say to the Chamber that it is not possible to rule out the need to adapt strategies in the future. It cannot be ruled out that even in the future, when it comes to dealing with what we are doing, its manoeuvrability is being demanded. That cannot be ruled out in the future, and mistakes will continue to be made. I'm just gonna say that in plain sight. I am also very upset that we did not ask that question in November, but in the future it will also be the case that mistakes are being made in dealing with this major pandemic. That's inevitable. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u204	How many open doors can you kick in? It is inevitable that mistakes will be made. Yeah, that's right. Where people work, mistakes are made. Everyone here understands that, including me. But we are talking about, for God's sake, looking back at the beginning of the crisis, about the major mistakes that have been made in purchasing and distributing the protective equipment, about the major mistakes that have been made in buying or not buying the test material, about setting up the source and contact research, which has been delayed for almost eight months, and now about vaccination, where major strategic and implementing blunders have been made. This isn't about a few mistakes or agility. This is at the heart of what you as a cabinet influence. Of course, mistakes are made. But when you see that something is going wrong, you also have to dare to adjust something in your structure and in your organization. I made the proposal to come with a government commissioner to remove some of the tasks that are now directly assigned to this minister. This Prime Minister is responsible for his team, is responsible for the division of tasks. If you find that things go wrong and you apologize for that, but you're not willing to change things in the organization, then what is the value of these excuses? Why don't you just kick in open doors? Then it's just wipes for the bleeding, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u205	Interesting. I have to chew on that. One. I will say this once again: it is inevitable that such mistakes will be made in the fight against a pandemic. We see that happening all over the world. I'm not hiding from that, but I am. It is now happening in other countries with the deployment of the vaccination strategy. Take a look at the newspapers in France and Germany. They're all about this right now. It's not about being late, it's about how it goes. It is about this, not because it is the cabinet or the government that is to blame there, but because there are also things in the implementation that are said to have to be corrected. I hope that we will get rid of all the misery as soon as possible, but I predict that we will have debates on this in the coming months too. Something we can't foresee now doesn't go into execution the way we wanted it to. Or something is not foreseen and is developing, and the debate is about what happens next. That's one. Mr Klaver can count on the chief executive to take responsibility for this, and I am always responsible for that. He never has to doubt that. He can also count on me as the final manager to think that we need to do something about the structure, and I will do that. When it came to personal protective equipment, it was Hugo de Jonge himself who asked DSM's then boss to make sure, like a tsar in that field, that things happened very quickly. I didn't ask, but he asked. I didn't even know he was asking, and I thought it was very sensible. If I thought we had to do something somewhere in the structure, I'd always do it. But I am convinced of one thing: the fact that this was not seen in November, I do not solve with an intervention in the structure. You solve this by learning from things that have gone well or not in the past; not by a structural intervention. On that point, I simply disagree with Mr Klaver. I am not going to solve this by appointing a Commissioner or whatever. It doesn't work that way; that just makes things more complex, and it's not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u206	Mr. Clover, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u207	Finally, Mr President. I still have no idea what lessons have been taken. The Prime Minister says we have to learn lessons, we have to learn lessons. When I ask him if he can tell me what happened between the beginning of November and the beginning of December, he says: ooh, I have to come back to that in the second term, for which I have to look very carefully and I don't know now. If you don't know that, how the hell did you learn a lesson? Second. I think there is too much on the table with this minister, and it is important that you have a Commissioner who has perseverance, who can go through with it and who gives you great and far-reaching powers. The Prime Minister is now saying: well, the Minister of VWS should see for himself who he wants to attract. That's kind of the Prime Minister's leadership style. But no, it's your responsibility, Prime Minister. You say, "I'm the lead boss, I'm the lead boss, and I'll always take that responsibility." I want to hear that not only in words, but also in deeds. Bring in additional people, make sure that the tasks are better distributed, because I think that this has something to do with the fact that this is an act of exhaustion. If you don't see this kind of important stuff, you're gonna have to bring in people. This is not a political operation. This isn't about writing policy papers, this isn't about slipping paper, but this is a logistical and operational operation. Then you're gonna have to bring in the very best people in this area. That is what this Prime Minister must do and that is to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u208	One more time, though. It is also my responsibility to consider Mr Klaver's suggestions, which I always take seriously. And it is also my responsibility to say to him in this case that in this situation I find his suggestion of a structural intervention to be unwise. I am convinced that this would lead to delay, not acceleration, and it is not necessary. And I predict once again that we will have debates here in the future in which Mr Klaver will appeal to me that we did not see something that we should have seen very clearly afterwards. And then maybe I'll agree with him, too. Then the question will also be: do you or do you not solve this with a structural intervention? He's suggesting a structural intervention here, and I find that suggestion unwise. It is also my responsibility as Prime Minister to weigh up such suggestions. In this case, I simply find the suggestion unwise and unnecessary. There's a good minister. If we haven't seen anything, he and I won't solve it by adding a third person in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u209	Mrs. Sazias, you've been at the interrupting microphone for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u210	Yes. I would like to come back to Mr Wilders' interrupting. And through you, President, I want to support Mr Wilders' story towards the Prime Minister about the vaccination of those vulnerable elderly people as soon as possible. Because does the Prime Minister also think it is a bit strange that at the end of March, beginning of April, we start vaccinating the elderly living at home between 60 and 75 years old, but not long after that with the vaccination of the 18 to 60-year-olds without medical indication? Shouldn't we just get the vulnerable elderly living at home vaccinated before we start the other group? Mr. Wilders was talking about 70 years, but it's just the group between 60 and 70 that makes such an attack on the ICUs. So again my question: can the elderly group be fully vaccinated, pulled forward before we start working on the younger groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u211	One more time, though. You have the schedule with you, tell me what else we should do. I get it. I'd like to. Hugo de Jonge will say a little more about it in a moment. It is also our ambition to bring forward both the person living at home over 60 and the person living at home over 75 and the person between 60 and 75 who is not mobile. But it's not that easy. This has to do with the delivery of the vaccines and with the different logistical requirements imposed on them. We are currently dealing with the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine. You see what we're doing. We believe that it is really important to take priority first, now that it is not possible to start immediately with the residents, at least to ensure that we do the staff of the nursing homes first, because we can take them to those 25 major locations. Look, if you add that up, how many people that is. If you want to do all that, you're talking about some 500,000 people, roughly added up. This is about a very large group of employees. At the moment there are a lot of vaccines waiting, but not so much. Then, of course, you want to see if you can bring that forward. That's possible, if AstraZeneca comes early. You can use them at those GGD vaccination sites. Then you have a much greater possibility. Then you can give the home person from 60 to 75 years old, Mr Wilders referred to BioNTech/Pfizer, which is also suitable for that target group. That's how it works. The same picture can be sketched for the institution doctor and the general practitioner as regards the residents of nursing homes and the home residents over 75. So we agree, but the amount of vaccines that are available, the logistics, basically requires us to do this. Wherever you can bring it forward, pull it forward. But you can't just bring out a group like that without disrupting the whole picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u212	No, but it's about different vaccines. For the elderly, it's the Pfizer vaccine. For the people aged 18 to 60 years without medical indication, this is about the AstraZeneca vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u213	Then you're really in April, on this schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u214	Exactly. But that's actually pretty soon after we started living at home from 60 to 75 years. What I find a bit strange, by the way, is that the older ones between 60 and 75 years have to go to the GGD and the people from 18 to 60 years old can do it with the GP. I'd rather do that the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u215	That has to do with the core brands of that BioNTech/Pfizer. That's gotta be frozen. You can't do that through the GP. That's what RIVM says. You can't leave that to the doctor, because then you're wasting so much of that vaccine because it's frozen and the packaging.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u216	That's a point. But first we can do the homework between 60 and 75 years old. By the way, why is there no differentiation between the group of residents aged 60 to 75 with or without medical indication? Because, of course, there is also a difference. Actually, the 60 to 75-year-olds should be pulled all the way forward with medical indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u217	Once again, that will be at the expense of those 500,000 employees. The strategy aims to have vaccinated the vulnerable and those taking care of them as soon as possible. Sorry, yes, then we really have to bet, in this picture, on the employees in the homes, disability care and in the district nursing and Wmo, and then on the residents of the nursing homes and people with intellectual disabilities in an institution. Of course, they have absolute priority, plus that limited group of 30,000 people in acute care. That is the absolute priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u218	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u219	And if you have that absolute priority, you can already see that it's working, right now, just because of the limited availability of vaccines... they seem to be very large numbers, but check it out. There are three million people in the Netherlands between 60 and 75. 500,000 people work in these beautiful jobs in these beautiful institutions. Then you have 30,000 people in acute care. So it's not that easy to bring everything forward. But if we can do it, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u220	According to this schedule, the employees of acute care are already vaccinated at the time we are only starting to vaccinate those living at home from 60 to 75 years. In any case, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he would like to use his maneuverability to look at this scheme again and to make a differentiation in the group of 60 to 75 years, namely between people with and without a medical indication. Can he see if there's any way to pull that group of vulnerable elderly people forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u221	Yes, and that's why the big disclaimer is above it: "The actual planning depends on the approval, operation, delivery and distribution of vaccines. And people's willingness to be vaccinated. Therefore, the time of the start of vaccination of a (new) group and the time when a group has been vaccinated is not fixed in time. Based on developments and advice, it can also change which group receives which vaccine. Vaccinating caregivers may inoculate themselves with the vaccine they administer." That is the whole point of the general practitioners and the people in institutions. That's how it works, but I have to say that the risk of such a beautiful schedule is that we all think: oh, that's exactly what it is. This is very dependent on the delivery of those vaccines. It is very dependent, for example, on whether Moderna is getting through and on the speed with which AstraZeneca becomes available. But let's say that it wouldn't be too bad for once, let's say that it might finally be a problem and that AstraZeneca would become available more quickly, then it will of course create a lot of air, especially on top of the schedule between the staff of the nursing homes and the group who lives at home and who is dependent on that vaccination via the GGD. Mr. Chairman. Many questions have now been answered by the interruptions. I've got a few left. That is more at the level of the measures and so on. The first is: what are the chances of extending the lockdown? We really need to wait for the OMT opinion. The OMT will meet on Friday. We expect that advice early next week. Then we will report to you immediately. The figures are already somewhat lower at the moment, but of course they are still high. Then there was a question about the fact that we do not know which measure has what effect. We keep looking at the effects of the measures, my answer would be. That was also discussed with the Chamber. The same applies to the measures we have now taken. At the same time, there is a real limitation to precisely making what each individual measure does. This is not always visible or to be calculated because it is a sum total of all the measures taken together. We are also always faced with a different situation and with the interrelationship between the measures. The next question follows on from that. That is also a question from Mr Van der Staaij. It is, of course, true that we need to identify the collateral damage caused by corona measures. We end up trying to include them in all the measures taken by the cabinet. Mr Van der Staaij specifically asked about the planning offices. They play an important role in this, asked for and unsolicited, and also contribute to the integral weighting of decision-making. Then about the schools. We are busy with schools in the field of ventilation. Yesterday, the specific allowance ventilation in schools, the so-called SUVIS, was opened at the RVO. Schools can apply for a grant. 116 applications have already been received yesterday. A quarter of the available budget has already been used for this purpose. So that's good news. Also along this route I would like to point out to schools the best possible ventilation in schools, which can be found at www.lesop distance.nl, with tips on how to ventilate optimally in the classroom. As far as the infectiousness of children in the new British variant is concerned, we cannot yet draw any conclusions. We await the OMT opinion on this point as well. Mr De Jonge will say something about this in a moment. Then there is the question of the 1.5 metres or other measures in both primary and secondary education, in primary and secondary schools. First of all, I think we all agree that physical education remains the best thing for the development of pupils. As far as we are concerned, this will take place from 18 January. We do not have the decision-making process yet. That's not till next week, so I really can't promise it'll happen January 18th. We simply don't know right now. We would like to await OMT's advice first. It is true that the Outbreak Management Team stated in its opinion of 31 December that there is indeed much uncertainty about the precise distribution of the British variant in primary and secondary schools. That is why they say: develop scenarios. On this basis, the cabinet also investigates with the sectors of p.o. And for what additional measures could be. Of course, the 1.5 meter distance is also examined, should the OMT advise on this; that is not the case at the moment. Then we also look at ways of spreading people and travel movements and also at the place, time and way of teaching. This is what Arie Slob, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media Policy, does in good consultation with the sector, because, of course, the measures must be feasible and enforceable. Of course, we want education to be open as soon as possible, but this can only be done under safe and responsible conditions. Mr President, perhaps I can finish the questions on education. There was also a question about quick tests. The roll-out of the rapid tests is expected to start on 18 January, but of course this only applies if the schools are open; that is really not certain yet. We're all gonna take a closer look at that. Then we are talking about a small group of schools, about 15 to 20 schools. This will then be scaled up as quickly as possible, also in accordance with the motion adopted by the Chamber. We hope that this scaling-up will take place within a few weeks, with primary education being based first on testing policies for staff. Again, this is all being reviewed in the light of the OMT opinion that is coming, including the British variant. I also agree with the Court that the re-opening of schools and, consequently, of childcare should be an absolute priority. Mr Jetten and others expressed this. Again, we hope to get the OMT advice quickly, so that education can also take place under safe and responsible conditions. If education could be open at some point, perhaps with restrictions, we will also have to keep a very close eye on the epidemiological picture. Mr President, the subject of education. After that, I have a few more questions. These are still few about events, field labs and elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u222	Mr Van Haga and then Mr Asscher and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u223	I was actually a little shocked by the answer to Mr Van der Staaij's question about collateral damage. Did I hear correctly that the Prime Minister is now going to visualize the collateral damage? Because I've asked you a lot of questions about that collateral damage, and I was under the impression that you would consider that in the consideration of taking all kinds of measures. But if I hear now that the collateral damage is only about to be mapped now... I hope I misunderstood that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u224	Luckily, he misunderstood. As far as collateral damage is known, on the front, we also want to ensure, with measures such as the economic aid packages, that the measures that hit society and the economy hardest are as well equipped with policies as possible, so that companies etc. are able to get through the crisis well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u225	The collateral damage resulting from, for example, the second lockdown has therefore been fully reflected and we can also get a report on this. It just exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u226	No, what I said is that, insofar as we can foresee collateral damage, for example for small and medium-sized enterprises through the closure of shops, also in connection with the terrible closure of the catering industry, we are also immediately trying to take the necessary economic measures to ensure that this damage is limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u227	Okay, but I think the collateral damage from the first lockdown has been fully mapped. So there is a report on that and we can get access to it sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u228	Well, no report, but we always try to figure out in advance what the damage could be and then mitigate it with measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u229	Okay, it's been said that the collateral damage has been mapped, but I don't hear there's a report. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij's question was to map all this collateral damage. Apparently, you're only about to do that now. When can we get a report on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u230	In any case, it was not my suggestion that I should make a report on this now, in the middle of the crisis. I outline that we are trying to do the collateral damage you can expect when taking measures to maintain the 1.5 metres, for example the current far-reaching measure to ensure that the whole of small and medium-sized enterprises... I am sorry, fortunately not the whole of SMEs, but to ask the shops to stay close to what is already happening in the hospitality sector. Then we will also look at what we need to do to ensure that these entrepreneurs are able to get through that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u231	I'm sorry, but this isn't going to get us much further. The Prime Minister says he's mapping out what kind of support measures are going to be. That's all fine and we're happy about that, but it's never enough, even if it's better than nothing. To map the collateral damage, as Mr Van der Staaij asked, is really something else. I just don't think I'm gonna get an answer to this, so I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u232	What I said about this, also because of his suggestion about the planning agencies, is that they contribute to the integral weighting in decision-making. They are also on the COVID-19 Ministerial Committee. They'll be there. They play an important role there. This is also the result of the Segers motion of May last year, which called for full consideration to be given, where possible, to all the additional effects of this crisis. That was in order to prevent that was when the discussion was going to be held in the OMT, because we do not want that. This must remain a virological epidemiological balance. But after that, of course, it is important to have other effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u233	The Prime Minister states that scenarios for schools are being worked on. My question is whether, following this new OMT advice and the reports on British and South African mutants, the cabinet has looked at the places where physical education is taking place. The final exam students, the group 8 students in some cases and the vulnerable students do receive physical education. Has the Cabinet considered whether that's safe and sound?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u234	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u235	If that is not the case, my request is to do so, because it is a matter of great concern to schools, parents and pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u236	I'm gonna skip this one. I think it's true that the OMT is meeting on Friday and coming up with an opinion on Monday. That's broader about the British variant. They will also advise on what can and cannot be done on 18 January. I will take your specific question with me in my second term or Hugo de Jonge will come to it in his first term. So it's about the students who go to school physically now. Those are small groups, but there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u237	The graduation students are not at a distance, they are at a distance from the teachers, but not from each other. It is precisely in view of the rapid spread of mutants in other countries and the problems that this causes in the UK that I think it is important for the government to look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u238	Good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u239	Two. The test policy has been modified in the OMT opinion to include children. In what way is this applied in preparing the scenarios for schools? It seems very important to me to recognise it earlier if those variants continue there. In addition, there is a demand for rapid testing and for schools to help make ventilation possible. I think there is also a motion from October on D66 and the Labour Party. What is the state of play here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u240	My answer was about the quick tests. Those tests, as I said, will take place from the 18th, if education can be opened, at 15 to 20 schools and then they will be scaled up quickly. This is, of course, separate from the adaptation of the test policy, which includes young people under the test policy. This was about rapid testing and how this can contribute to the best possible functioning of education. As regards ventilation, I have just said that the scheme is open and that yesterday and today the first 116 applications were received.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u241	It's kind of the theme of the day, but that seems a little late. Ventilation was already said during the summer holidays that it had to be in order, because otherwise you can't actually comply with the building decision. On the first day of school, Slob said that maybe we should look at it with a committee. And now the first requests are in. So that seems a little late; a theme in this debate. That seems a little late for both fighting the pandemic and for being able to go to school with children. We haven't seen anything yet about the implementation of the motion to deal with exactly these kinds of scenarios with the schools. My request would therefore be: make sure that they are there next week. This is of the utmost importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u242	Yeah, but about the ventilation, it's not like it's not gonna go well if they don't take advantage of that specific benefit. Schools have their own responsibility and also make use of all the tools available for the proper ventilation of their buildings. The scheme is designed to help schools which then have a problem with this specific benefit in the investments that need to be made. So it's not like this just started yesterday. Schools have their own responsibility in this and that scheme is intended to support them in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u243	The ideology of our own responsibility can be invoked at any time, but we have another problem here. We have a problem with the ventilation. There are rules for this and they are part of that responsibility, but they have suddenly gained a different meaning in the pandemic. That was already known for the summer, that was discussed during the summer vacation and after the summer Slob would start working on it. In that light, it is not reassuring that applications are coming in now, because I expect the cabinet to actively help the schools and not to end it with a general reference to its own responsibility. No laisser-faire, help those schools. My question was: 'And the Court has already made a ruling on this in order to ensure that these scenarios are put in place, and quickly.'
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u244	I will ask Mr Slob to update you on this, but there are 8,000 primary schools in the Netherlands and about 1,500 secondary schools. It is, of course, impossible to take all of these at hand from the Ministry of Education and Science. They have their own responsibility. In the school I'm involved in, all the windows are permanently open and you're in the cold all day. So that's all going well. This scheme is about supporting schools that have to invest in it. But I will ask Mr Slob to give an update on this with a further communication with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u245	I would like to touch on the issue of collateral damage, which the Prime Minister said the planning agencies are looking into. My question is still to what extent this will come up in good time and clearly when it comes to decision-making on how to proceed with the lockdown. What mitigations and what adjustments are possible? Surely it would be very valuable if at that point there was insight into what the lockdown does to people with mental and other problems, for example? How do we weigh that? What adjustments could this possibly lead to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u246	I'm afraid that... Yeah, I don't want to be too gloomy, but the changes to the lockdown are a little illusory right now. We are waiting for the OMT advice, but if you see the numbers and the number of infections these days, I am not very happy about that. But more generally, I fully understand Mr Van der Staaij's question. That's what we keep trying to weigh in on. That is why the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau is watching, as is the Central Planning Bureau, the Planning Office for the Environment, the SER and also the SER Youth Platform. We try to keep everyone connected and ask about their insights. The Halsema Commission, which functioned in May, was important in this respect, especially as regards the impact on young people. Of course, it has huge consequences, psychological and also loneliness and so on. On all sides, you try to support each other as a society, including from the government. At the same time, I think it is really good that we in the Netherlands have kept the separation between the advice from the OMT, epidemiologically and from the virology on the one hand, and how you then deal with all the consequences of any lockdown measures. But the fierce lockdown we're having now, naturally, has a huge impact on our society. That is what Mr Van der Staaij feels and I feel it. We all feel that. You can still map it so well, but that impact is there and you're not going to take it away altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u247	I understand what the Prime Minister is saying, but I don't mean to say that if you have that in your picture, you're suddenly going to do something radically different. But it can still lead to changes in certain cases. You can also come up with some sort of intangible aid packages, so to speak: these are the groups that are hardest hit and we want to do something additional for that. That is more than just an economic aid package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u248	Yeah, there's a lot of contact with the VNG about that. I myself have had sessions with older people and with people with physical disabilities to talk about the enormous impact that corona has on specific groups. It's really tearing when you talk to them. It is also impressive when you see how people under the most difficult conditions are able to be there for each other and when you see how much help they get from people who are able to provide that help. Then the Netherlands makes you very happy. But you can see the enormous impact on mental health and loneliness, regardless of the enormous economic consequences. We're trying to map all this as best we can. That's what all these planning agencies are helping with. So I agree with this, but it is a great deal that we are talking to the municipalities and all kinds of sectors to see what we can do, for example with education. This is also, I think, rightly prioritised here in the Chamber as one of the first sectors that we want to give as much space as possible. So yes, once, but unfortunately it is not a roadmap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u249	No, I understand. But the question is again whether, if we are to be informed about the decision of the cabinet, there can be specific attention to this, so that this is properly addressed. Because the Chamber is always expected to consider the matter, so to see what is needed on the one hand to combat the virus and also what is on the other side of the scale. I think we should have good information in order to be able to weigh that honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u250	Yeah, I get that. In any case, we will try to map such effects as best we can. You can see in the slide decks from the Catshuis, the pile of sheets that is now being sent with us, that we often have sessions there about all this kind of... I don't really want to call it "side effects." You called it even damage. Maybe that's the best word. I am referring to the enormous impact it has on our society, not only economically, but also mentally and psychologically. That's huge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u251	What helps in mental terms is predictability; if you know what happens at a certain level of infection, at certain figures. Nothing is more frustrating than that you have hope every time and hope is drilled into the ground again. My question is: what is the route after 19 January? What scenarios are there? How predictable is the government's reaction to certain infections? Can people trust that this has some degree of predictability, or is that a black hole?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u252	I do not think Mr Segers will be very pleased with the answer. There is a certain predictability because we have said that you should actually go back to three ic-recordings a day. We're at 50, 60 a day, and you need to go back to 3. When you're at 10 a day, you're talking about 3,600 infections. We're up between seven and nine grand a day now, and we've been in that lockdown for weeks. If you're at 3,600, that's 10 ICU shots a day. Then you go in the right direction, or a descending leg, as Jaap van Dissel calls it. You'll be able to relax a little. That's just as grossly sketched out. I'm kind of happy because the numbers are bent. Ernst Kuipers said yesterday that we seem to be reaching the peak in the hospitals. Then I think he's got a lot of eyes on it. Again, it's gonna be a long time before those hospitals notice anything of enlightenment, if there's been a peak, what we're hoping for with him, huh, Tamara? Even if you look at the contamination rates themselves, they are still very high at the moment, so that doesn't make me very hopeful about what can be done after 19 January. You can see that the lockdown in Germany has been extended. You can see that it's being imported into other countries, for example in England, so we're really not there yet. But in terms of predictability, the thought was: what can be done at 10, if you go further down. At 3 you're really back on the first level of vigilance, but we're a long way from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u253	The Prime Minister just referred to a motion of mine asking for a broader consideration, not only in the OMT, but also in an IMT, as I said then. You should actually have a team alongside behavioral scientists and corporate economists to include the broader damage discussed in that broader consideration. A behavioral scientist will also say that not only punishing behavior is effective, but also rewarding good behavior. In this sense, offering perspective and hope that certain figures actually allow for enlightenment would be very hopeful. So we have a better view of scaling up and a little less insight into the scaling down of measures. We have spoken before about the roadmap and that there is not a very good view of it. However, my compelling plea to look very closely at this, even on the route towards January 19th and beyond, to be as predictable as possible and to reward good behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u254	That's what we like to include in the trade-offs. I am only concerned about what is possible for me, for you and for the rest of the Netherlands on the 19th, given the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u255	In addition to Mr Segers, I understand very well when the Prime Minister says that we should not expect too much from 19 January, with the current figures. But if we take the look forward for a few weeks or months now, will we come at a time when not only the number of positive infections and ic intakes can be decisive, but also the vaccination rate that we achieve in this country? Can the cabinet at some point outline a perspective on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u256	That is one of the questions in yesterday's letter from Hugo de Jonge. We have asked a combination of Health Council and Outbreak Management Team a lot of questions. For example, it is about how long group immunity will last. It also concerns the question of when in time statements can be made about limiting the transmission after vaccination. You can assume that the virus load, i.e. the degree of infection of a virus, is smaller. When is someone no longer contagious, we have asked. All these things are ahead of us now. We don't expect them on Fridays, but I think a week later. I thought we were getting these advices on January 18th. Then there is Mr Dijkhoff's question about the event industry. There is a lot of discussion about this, especially about the field labs, even this week. We really want to see if it is possible to continue with this, because it helps us to learn about the conditions under which events can be organised safely. We are also talking to them about the economic support measures. Mr Dijkhoff asked for this too. I will make sure that we mention the current state of play in the next progress letter. As a result, Mr Jetten's question on the test gardens and field labs. It is now about four practical tests that are being worked on: once a theatre performance, once a business congress and twice a football game. They're planned by now. They are designed with advice from the RIVM. They also help us gain knowledge. At the same time, we are also dealing with a variant of the virus that may be much more contagious. As I said, we need to hear more about this later this week and beginning next week in the OMT opinion. So it's gotta be safe. There are always conversations about this too. Does this lead to new insights again? That's what the initiators want. They also attach great importance to doing this carefully, including in consultation with the security regions and other stakeholders. Then the election of March 17th. I am, of course, not working on the campaign, as you know, but on this issue. But I see others are working on it. As far as I'm aware, those elections will continue on March 17th. All measures shall be taken to ensure that voting is carried out safely. The Minister for the Interior said that there would also be a legislative amendment: if the situation surrounding the virus and epidemiological developments were to require us to consider postponement in the extreme and undesirable case, this would have to be not only a decision of the cabinet, but of the cabinet and parliament together. There will also be a letter for the election recess, which is now scheduled for 12 February, I would just say, here reading out, but that will be consistent with the state of play regarding the preparations for the Second Parliamentary Elections. It also discusses the current situation of the coronavirus and the extent to which it may or may not have an impact on the elections. But right now, you asked that question, I have 17 March in my head. Perhaps even immediately against Mr Krol, while he walks to the microphone: the deadline for making declarations of support has been extended from two to four weeks. That is therefore a legal requirement, even until shortly before the date of the nomination, when the declarations of support are to be surrendered. The Minister of BZK has also pointed out to the municipalities that interest earlier. The signal that Mr Krol is sending here will also be forwarded to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u257	I welcome this communication, but I would like to say to the Prime Minister that he can also tell his colleague, Mr Delors, that three hours ago there were more than ten people at the town hall in Westerkwartier who were not admitted. Similar signals are now coming from all parts of the country. That is a restriction on democracy. I hope she wants to contact me and we're really going to find a solution. I know she's sent a letter before. There's even a civil servant. But when you call him, he says, well, I don't know what to do, just send me an e-mail. That's not an effective approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u258	Good. Again, this part, as you have just said about this municipality, will be passed on to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Mr President, I think I am through all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u259	I first saw Mr Segers and then Mr Wilders. What are you guys gonna do? I also saw Mrs. Sazias. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u260	I have the next question to the Prime Minister. Has he recently called Mr Van Dissel to order when he suggested in an interview that the spreading of corona during the first wave, so to speak, could have to do with the training of the care staff in the nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u261	I also heard Mr Van Dissel himself afterwards when he said that what had happened was unfortunate. I thought he also had contact with the organisation of nursing homes in the Netherlands. I'm sure he didn't mean to. I know him as someone who, as a professor of care, has the utmost respect for everyone who works in care. So it was never his intention, I really know that one hundred percent sure to disavow anyone with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u262	That's good to hear, but that's what he said. I listened to the interview myself. He used the word "training" of the people who work in the nursing homes. We know, therefore, it is all the more painful that it was his organisation, the RIVM, who, during the first wave, advised not to give protection to everyone in the nursing homes. You will only work in a nursing home, knowing that Mr. Van Dissel's body made sure that when you needed it most and there was scarcity, you were not eligible for protective equipment. You will then hear that it is not up to Mr Van Dissel himself, because that was of course partly because of the very hard-working people in the nursing homes themselves. I mean, he can go to those people with 1,000 bunch of roses instead of you saying that... again, those are the people who took the chestnuts out of the fire. You will say: I have spoken to him and he has not said it. Where is he himself? When is he going to look up a camera himself and say it didn't mean to and that he's apologizing for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u263	He's the last one to say something like that. If someone in the Netherlands has the greatest possible respect for everyone who works in care and certainly also for those tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands of people working in nursing homes and institutions in the Netherlands, that is Jaap van Dissel. There's no way he wanted to say something like that. You all say something that goes with Mr Wilders and me, who walk the longest here, together with Mr Van der Staaij, who, if you read it back, you think: that is the last thing I wanted to say, but I may have given that impression and that is my own stupid mistake. It's really the last thing he wants with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u264	Much of the debate has been about the fact that we are lagging behind the rest of Europe with vaccines, but we are also two years ahead of a large part of the world with vaccines, at least on a poor part of the world. There are large parts of the world that only have a view of an available vaccine in 2023. Does the cabinet also feel responsible for a fair distribution of vaccines worldwide?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u265	Yes. I do not have the latest state of affairs there, but the answer is yes. We have talked a lot about it in the cabinet, including Sigrid Kaag, the Minister for Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade. Yes, we think this is very important. If Mr Segers would like to know exactly what the situation is, I suggest that we include it in the next progress letter. Then we ask Mrs Kaag to give us an update.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u266	Yes, please. That seems to me to be a very good suggestion. We have potentially bought tens of millions of vaccines. The richer part of the world has potentially a huge overshoot, while other parts of the world have to wait another two years. That is an injustice that we could do something about. The Netherlands can take responsibility for this, so if that can be addressed in the next letter, I think that is very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u267	I'd be happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u268	I had hoped that the Prime Minister would also reflect on the demonstration in Haarlem, where 1,750 people stood without a mouth cap. Meanwhile, there was also a nice party in The Hague, which was also called "demonstration" for convenience. A demonstration is scheduled for next Sunday in Hilversum, where 800 people are expected. So I would like a reflection from the Prime Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u269	In general, I would like to say that the right of demonstration is, of course, part of our democracy, which includes more than Chamber and cabinet. It also includes the press, the independent judiciary and the right of every Dutchman to make his or her views know through a demonstration, but in these days this must be done in accordance with all the conditions. I never comment on what a demonstration subsequently looked like in practice; at least, I try to avoid that, but sometimes that is not quite possible. It is really up to the local authority to ensure that demonstrations take place in compliance with all the rules. It is also an issue for which local authority has, if necessary, to answer to the local council. I don't think I should comment on that, and I'm supposed to take the shot at mayors all day long. I don't think that's right. If necessary, there will of course be discussions behind the scenes with the Minister of Justice and Security and with the Minister of the Interior, if there is any reason to do so. It is really a matter for the mayors to be responsible for public order to ensure that the right of demonstration in the Netherlands can be implemented as well as possible, but subject to all the conditions, including the 1.5 metres, which we now need to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u270	Everyone in the cabinet is working hard to get the corona pandemic under control. You can imagine that the people on the ic are biting themselves when they see that such things are happening in the meantime. Next Sunday there will be another demonstration in Hilversum against the corona measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u271	Usually not for the cabinet, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u272	Demonstrating is a fundamental right, but we also have the Public Events Act, which states that that fundamental right can be temporarily suspended in the context of health. Why can't you bring forward the Public Events Act anymore? Well, then you don't have to turn your back on mayors, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u273	Mayors of course work in accordance with all these legal frameworks. They are trying to control public order as best they can, and at the same time they are trying not to completely lift the right to demonstrate during this pandemic. But I very much agree with Mrs Sazias that those images are the last thing you want. I think too, looking at the screen, "grrrr, this is not going to help!', Not even for myself, because I've lost so many hours, but for all those people who work in hospitals and all those people who try to follow the rules. I just want to try to make as little comment as possible on those demonstrations, because then I will also comment on those mayors. I'd like to avoid that. And I don't always have all the latest information about that. I do not think that is something we should do here. That really is a matter for local authority, accountable to the local council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u274	I think this is a little too easy. Of course, I understand that the Prime Minister does not want to ride the local drivers, but in this case we are dealing with a national, a global pandemic and we are talking about demonstrations of people against the corona measures. These are people who, in principle, do not want to wear a mask and who do not want to comply with the measures. You saw that in Haarlem, you saw that in The Hague and I can give you on a note that you will see that Sunday in Hilversum. So why not just bring out that Public Events Act and before, so that local drivers have more handle on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u275	The average mayor in the Netherlands really knows the legal framework, but on the one hand he has to try to keep the right to demonstrate still somewhat in view and on the other hand he has to ensure that he does not give the people working in intensive care, in nursing homes and in the police, the feeling that we are mopping with the crane open. That's the last thing you want. So I agree with Mrs. Sazias. I just want to avoid becoming some kind of commentator on what our mayors are doing, because in the vast majority of cases they are trying to express that conscientiously. And if something goes wrong for once, I won't say anything about these examples, because I don't know all the details of this, then of course we will always seek that contact behind the scenes if necessary. And then, of course, in democratic legitimacy, it is the responsibility of the person responsible for public order and the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u276	Finally, Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u277	Finally, Mr President. I understand that, but most people really don't understand that. It would be important for me to pay more attention to this in communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u278	What I do want to do here is to make a general remark separately from those examples. I say this to everyone in the Netherlands who does not agree with the government policy, and you sometimes have one and who specifically does not always agree with the Corona approach. And then I'm not even talking about the deniers of the virus's existence, but about people who are critical of policy aspects. That's all very well. We all benefit from that. I say to them that it is your right to express it by means of a demonstration, provided that it takes place within all the frameworks set by local authority. But that is only possible if you also follow all the rules we have in the Netherlands to fight the virus. So I would like to take advantage of the point made by Mrs Sazias here to make that appeal: if you exercise your democratic right to demonstrate, and that can also be done, make sure that this does not lead to a further spread of the virus. But I would not like to say here: let us temporarily end the right of demonstration. I do not believe that Mrs Sazias is in favour of this either. That seems to me to be too great an intervention in our democratic legal order. And you don't want to. I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u279	Thank you. Then I'll suspend meeting for two minutes. Then the messengers also have the opportunity to clean the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u280	I will give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u281	Thank you, Mr President. A serious number of questions have already been answered, but before I go into the answers to the questions on vaccination and then another block of questions on another subject, I would like to begin by reflecting on the criticism that has been expressed here in the first period and perhaps also some reflections, looking back at the debate just before the Christmas holidays. In order to clarify some things and perhaps correct some things, because I should have done them differently. In the previous debate, I named the early start, the sudden early start by faster EEA admission, in other countries as "a symbolic first shot." I would have taken the floor there, as was used in other countries at the time, and yet I should have reworded it. Because "symbolically" can be heard too easily as "little meaningful," "not so important." That symbolism does have meaning. The second is this. I used the phrase, "Not when you count the first shot, but when you're done. That's the real goal, that's the real game we have to play." The second part of that sentence is, of course, correct. It's also the real game we have to play when you're done, when you've built up a sufficient vaccination rate. But I should not use the first half of the sentence anymore, because every shot counts and besides the collective protection you may expect from vaccination, the protection of the individual is of course important, so every shot counts. I believe that Mr Asscher said that then, and I share that with him. And perhaps the third thing I can repeat, although it has been discussed in detail a moment ago, is that there is a reason why we have not started vaccination as the very first EU Member. I have always said: we must be maneuverable in the execution. I shall come back to that later, including the demand for different scenarios. We need to be maneuverable in the execution. But we have actually proved to be insufficiently agile to quickly accommodate the change regarding BioNTech/Pfizer. Because if I had asked the GGD earlier to prepare the systems for the eventuality that they should have started with large-scale vaccination, then one could have shaped the work process in a different way, I suppose, and then perhaps we could have bought time. Then we'd be able to buy time. And so I had to ask that question earlier to the GGD. So it is not a reproach to the GGD, because I insist that the GGD has delivered a top performance by being ready and standing where it is now in such a short time. Mr President, I think it is important to say that in advance. Two is that I would like to give some explanations on the schedule as it was sent in your direction yesterday. But maybe you first...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u282	Maybe you'll finish your sentence first? I want you to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u283	I would now like to comment on the choices we have made, including in the past week, and the schedule as you have been given. So maybe this is a natural moment for an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u284	Thank you for helping me with that. Mr Wilders and then Mr Klaver, Mr Azarkan and Mrs Marijnissen. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u285	Then I'd like to take advantage of that natural moment. Mea culpa, nice, but the fact remains that you made a mistake there, that you failed. Let's be honest, nobody's infallible, we're all people, everyone makes mistakes, but that's not the first one you've made. If you look at the past year, I won't repeat everything again, from testing to source and contact research, to apps, to... it's a accumulation of things and now again. Again, it's not about nothing. I was just asking the Prime Minister. We are talking about 300,000 by now, if we do not count today's over 160,000. That's a lot of people who could've been helped with that. And every shot isn't just one, but if we don't, we're gonna be in the lockdown longer, then nursing staff up to and including older people have longer problems. So don't you at some point have something like "yes listen, this isn't going well anymore, let someone else do it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u286	No. It is part of my work and also the way in which I stand in life, the way in which I have gone into politics, to be willing to take responsibility, to bear responsibility for policies that need to be made, policies that need to be implemented. Especially in a crisis like this, and always in a very complex situation, there is reason to possibly make mistakes. If you take responsibility, you're susceptible to criticism. If you take a lot of responsibility, you're susceptible to a lot of criticism. The ability to make mistakes is part of this. That's right. Of course, mistakes have consequences. Of course, it is. It's part of my job. That's part of the political business in this way. It's part of being in politics and wanting to be meaningful in the lives of others and wanting to be meaningful in such a complex crisis. What I ask of myself and of the people around me every day is to do the maximum of what is in our ability to do the right thing and do the right thing. At the same time, mistakes are inevitable in such a crisis. That's right. You have to learn from that, and you have to make sure you do everything in your power to prevent mistakes. That's right. But it is inevitable that mistakes are made. It's part of the job. At the same time, I am convinced that with everything we have in us, with all the energy I have in me, we will get through this crisis as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u287	Once again, Madam President, I am not blaming anyone for making mistakes, certainly not someone who takes responsibility as a minister with such a heavy portfolio. It is not at all the case that you should not make mistakes, but you have already made a lot of mistakes. This isn't a small mistake, either. These are hundreds of thousands of people who might not have had to get sick if we had started inoculating earlier. 165,000 shots: that's a lot of people who wouldn't have gotten sick or infected other people. That's not a small mistake. What I'm not advocating is breaking you down to your knees. 'Cause you're the one who takes responsibility, and that's what's good for you. But sometimes you come at a time when you think: it might be better if someone else does it, because there might be something waiting for us, with all those vaccines that are still coming. Nor do I have the impression, when it comes to the preparation of the rest, that the Chamber is unanimously in favour of saying: we are very confident that you will do so. Surely it is important for you, more than just the coalition, that you have the broadest possible trust from the Chamber to function?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u288	Let me be clear: you must answer that question of trust. Every time we debate, you can answer that question of trust. The rule of trust in the Chamber is that there is confidence until the moment the trust is cancelled. Your question to me is to reflect on the following. Mistakes have been made. Is that a reason for me to think: let someone else do it? No, that is not my way of doing politics, I say to Mr Wilders. Running away, unwilling to take responsibility, choosing the path of the least resistance: that is not my way of doing politics. No, I didn't. If I were asked, "do you think you're the right man in the right place?" At this point, my answer is yes. If I were convinced that this would no longer be the case, I would indeed say: leave it to someone else. But that's not the way I'm in the game. The way I try to do my job, with everything in me, is trying to be meaningful in someone else's life. That's what I see around me at the VWS Department and at the RIVM. For ten months now, we have been in a state of crisis and there is a top performance. And yes, mistakes are also made. That's what comes with it. The moment you take responsibility, there's a chance you'll make mistakes. That's right. If I were convinced that I was no longer of added value, but that I was in the way of the crisis, I would be the first to say: leave it to someone else. But that's not the way I'm in the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u289	Finally. I hear the Minister say "I" a hundred times. That's okay at all, with a question like that. "Me, me, me, me." And that's okay. Only, my question was another one. I was just saying, apart from what you think about yourself, of course, that that is also extremely relevant, that you must have seen that your support is calving, even if no one would support my motion of censure in this Chamber. That could just happen, no one's gonna support my motion. But with more parties than just my party, people are starting to doubt that things are going well. Then I'll say it very carefully. In fact, a lot of parties say it's not going well. That's what you need to think about. It's not just about what you think. I think you, as a minister in a democracy, have an interest in a support platform that, apart from motions of censure, is wider than just support in the coalition. Many parties here, I speak only on behalf of my party, let that be clear, I have heard them criticize your policy, that they criticize that we were the last to start inoculating, that there are a few hundred thousand vaccines in the freezer. You're gonna have to charge yourself for that, whether you sit down or not. Please don't talk about me, me, me, but look around you. We are here in the Lower House and you can function as long as you not only think you are the best, but as long as you also have support in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u290	It is up to all parties and to each individual Member of Parliament to make up their minds at the end of this debate. The rule of trust is such that there is confidence until the moment it is terminated. That applies to every individual Member of Parliament. The way in which I stand in politics, which I am underlining in the direction of Mr Wilders, is that I would like to take responsibility and continue to bear. I'd like to do that with all those people around me on VWS, at the RIVM, at the GGDs, in the care, that day in, day out of the best in themselves to make sure we get through this crisis. That's the way I want to do my job. At the end of the day, it is up to each individual MP to make their minds up what would be the best contribution to this crisis. I'm sure it's my job to continue my work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u291	The Minister draws two lessons, including that he used the wrong words. That's fine. You can take it back. The most important lesson is the third: I should have ordered the GD's earlier. This too is too vague and too general for me, just as the Prime Minister did. What should have been asked before and at what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u292	If we turn the film back for a second....................................................................................................................... Until about mid-November this appeared to be the case, until AstraZeneca turned out to have disappointing clinical data and the vaccine of BioNTech/Pfizer seemed to be getting faster. That's one. Two. When BioNTech/Pfizer seemed to come sooner, we of course tried to see if we could use BioNTech/Pfizer in a small-scale way. I think I understood in the first week of December of the RIVM that that was really just impossible in the small-scale forms of housing where you would like to be the first to vaccinate. That would be about 10,000 locations, and that's too small-scale. This has not only to do with the temperature and not only with the size of the packaging. The limited sustainability and a number of more make it difficult to achieve this very small-scale commitment. At that time, repacking was not possible and so there was only one way to start vaccination as soon as possible, namely by asking the GGD to do the central locations that they were going to set up anyway, at the very beginning with BioNTech/Pfizer, where we could vaccinate that first group. I was then told on 1 December by the EEA that they would be able to approve on the 29th. On December 15, it turned out to be December 21, and that was the time when we couldn't go up again with the GGD, just because of the orderality of things that are simply needed to start in a responsible way. What I therefore want is for us to apply the principle of manoeuvrability even better in the way we implement our strategy. Then I think it is good to just take you with us, because that was also the question that Mr Dijkhoff asked because of the choices we have made on that point in the further implementation of the strategy, as it currently stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u293	A point of order, but mine. I would rather not hear the same questions again that had already been asked to the Prime Minister, because I assume he also spoke on behalf of the entire cabinet. But I don't want to hear the same answers either, so try to find some form in it, so we don't repeat ourselves, I say to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u294	I think it's important because the minister himself started it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u295	It was a point of order, I heard. Anyway, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u296	I ask the Minister this question because he brings it up himself. I have three important lessons I want to learn in advance. One is, I should have asked the G.D.D.'s sooner. I asked, what would you have asked earlier? I didn't get an answer to that. I just get the answer that we've been hearing all along: this was the trajectory, that's how it happened. That's just the actual course, the situation that got us into the soup. If you're sorry for something, I want to know: what would you have done better, at what point should you have made other choices? I would like a brief and concrete answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u297	What I could have done is what I said and also what the Prime Minister said, because that is the answer to this question. Not only for the group for which the bar was set, namely the group from 18 to 60 years old, but also for the care staff. Where the care staff would actually be vaccinated by the institution, it is really wiser to do so in large-scale locations because of the handling of BioNTech/Pfizer. If I had ordered the GGD to do so earlier, it would probably have been possible to design the process in a faster way than it has now been possible to do. That is a very concrete answer to the question of what could have been done earlier. Well, that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u298	I'm asking you this because I want to know, I'm also waiting for the Prime Minister's answer in second term, what happened after 1 November, when we actually heard that BioNTech/Pfizer had better results or had very good results and that they would probably come sooner. Six weeks, in my opinion, nothing happened. What did the Minister miss where at the time? If we're going to learn lessons, that has to be very precise. This is also about the IT system, for example. In the debate on 17 December it was said that the IT system is not yet finished, but it is finished when we start later; it is a prerequisite to start. Is it finished now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u299	Yeah, because otherwise we wouldn't have started yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u300	If I read the letter correctly, I can see that the integration that had to be achieved with all the other systems, which would be finished, is still not complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u301	No. I indicated that the registration system would be completed in time for us to start. Well, it is. The login system, that's what it was about. The care of the IT systems concerned the registration system at the GGD. That was the most important bottleneck not to want, not to dare to accelerate. That IT system had to be modified. Before it could actually be adjusted to the level of call scripts that would be applied, we also needed to know what the contraindications were. The IT systems had to be tested before they could actually be started. The test showed that that start was justified. That's why yesterday, 204,000 times two slots were opened in the login system. I think it's a huge achievement that all of that worked out in time. That's the most important thing for now, to make those appointments. Once you have started, it is important that there is a link between that registration and the central registration system. That, too, is the expectation, will be ready in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u302	It's about recording what stings people get and at what point to avoid errors. It was said on 17 December: that will be ready when we start. Now, when I look at the letter sent by this minister, I see that that is not yet in order, that integration with other systems is not in order. When I asked on 17 December about all kinds of technical specifications, it was said: that is technology, that is not the problem, it is about the legal implications. Now I read that the technique is not yet in order and that there is no such integration. How is that possible? Why didn't I hear the Minister say that I should have ordered those IT systems to be put in order earlier? Why isn't that the lesson that is being taught and why is that still not in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u303	You have to keep two things apart. If I say that I should have ordered the GGD earlier, it has to do with IT in particular. I also explained last time that designing and manning locations is not the great work, especially not because of the experience of the GGD. What is obstructive, especially in the time-travel speed, is that IT systems need to be adapted, that they need to be adjusted and tested in a certain order before you can actually start. That was what I explained in detail last time in the steps that need to be taken, indeed an obstacle to being able to say on the 21st: go forward anyway. That had to do with the fact that I had given that order to the GGD in the first week of December. So there was then aim to start early in January. It was not possible to speed that up even earlier, even in December. Again, that's not a reproach to the GD. That's a reflection on my own assignment. I could have given that order sooner. That is the IT of the GGD, which was actually conditional to be able to appear at the start. In addition, the central registration plays. That central registration should be ready the moment you start. By the way, in many countries this central registration is of course not yet complete and it has started anyway, so it is not impossible to start if that central registration is not yet ready, but I myself want to. And that central registration is also ready the moment we start. The only point is that a number of improvements are still being made for safety reasons. However, it is expected that they will also be ready for take-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u304	Mr. Clover, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u305	There's a lot of shit going on here, and it's really bullshit. The fact that we're gonna start earlier has nothing to do with the G.D.D.s, but it has to do with the hospitals and the people who work there. They can be vaccinated from Wednesday after that. The GGD is only at full strength on January 18th, so nothing at all "early January." On 18 January the GGD will only be fully operational. We had a discussion on those IT systems on December 17, so three weeks ago. We were then told that they would be in order in time, at the beginning of December. They're not in order yet. That is not at all the reason why we can start now. That worries me. I warn the Minister: this is something that must not fail. The integration of these different systems must succeed. I'd like the Minister to be honest about that. I don't want a beautiful weather show. I don't want the minister to say that's gonna be okay. Just go to sleep. We've heard that too many times. I would now like to hear why these various systems, from the general practitioners, from the hospitals, from the GGDs, from the RIVM, will be able to communicate well with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u306	I think it's okay to take it apart for a while. In the previous debate we talked about the IT system of the GGD, which is conditional on being able to register. That was an important bottleneck in particular, so we could not say before: go forward. Why was that? For reasons that have been mentioned, in the first week of December I commissioned the GGD. Then we started off early in January at that time. We were also allowed to assume this because we had heard on 1 December that on 29 December the EEA would give its opinion on admissions. When we heard on 15 December that the EEA would go from 29 December to 21 December, it was no longer possible to apply this acceleration. This had to do with the GGD's login system in particular. The GGD's login system was an adaptation of CoronIT, and CoronIT had to be modified both in order to make the notifications and in order to make the registration of the people who have been pricked. That registration system, that decentralised registration, is indeed linked to the central registration system. Registration at the GGD is sufficient to start with the GGD. That's one. That system is ready, otherwise 408,000 time slots could not have been opened yesterday. That's a top performance of the GGD. I was not able to speed that up on 21 December; I was unable to do so at that time. Then there is your question, which you asked last time. It is therefore about another system, namely the central registration system of the RIVM. You asked, are the clutches ready? The answer is: these links are being prepared. They'll be ready in time, but if there's no link yet, it's not a showstopper to start. On the contrary, you can start in a different way. A number of pickers will also have to do so if they are not linked because their own decentralised registration system does not yet have a link. Those links are not the showstopper before the start.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u307	Somewhat at the end of the debate on 17 December, Mr Dijkhoff and I asked about the same question, namely: did it matter? The answer was, well, there's no telling. And in fact the Minister said: if you start before 8 January, that is irresponsible. I looked that up again. Is what he said still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u308	When we had that debate, I believe it was two days after we were told that the EEA would approve it not on 29 December but on 21 December. I'm sure it's true that if I had said that we were going to start earlier... In the end, we managed to start a few days earlier, but in particular IT was a complex process to get it ready in time. With all the intermediate steps needed for this, it was indeed not justified at that time to say: let's just start earlier. I said yesterday, and repeat today, that if I had previously commissioned the GGD, for example earlier in November, to prepare for BioNTech/Pfizer at large-scale locations, and so to prepare the IT systems in particular: yes, that would have mattered. There's no telling how much that would have mattered now, because I didn't work out that work process in Hindsight in any other way, but I might have cared. Then you could have started earlier. What is more, of course, is that we have made the additional choice to vaccinate some of the employees in the acute care earlier. So we start on the 6th. I think that's very good news. If we had said to each other two months ago "the biggest problem in the first week of January is whether we start on the 8th or on the 6th," then that was a nice problem to have. But I think we've all thought this way around Christmas: if only we could put our first shot on the 27th. Of course, that would have been lovely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u309	During the debate on 17 December, I did not get the impression that the Minister had the idea, as he now points out, that he has learned a number of lessons. It was a bit of: this is the best we could do; we bet on one strategy for a long time and then we were a little late, so we weren't agile, but in the end it doesn't matter very much. Then why did the Minister sit there and bite himself under the Christmas tree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u310	I think it has to do with the fact that I have called that start of the pricking, while not really a vaccination campaign has started, a symbolic start. Of course the symbolism of this is indeed meaningful. I said that "symbolically starting" can get the sound color that it's not meaningful. I think, and so do others, as we have observed, that it is indeed meaningful. Not only because every shot counts, but also because that symbolism is indeed important. Most countries start with the real stabbing somewhere around mid-January, in such a way that the number of deliveries is actually converted into a prick production that is just running steady. This is the case somewhere in January in most countries, perhaps with the exception of Denmark, Germany, perhaps Luxembourg, but as far as I can see, it is the same in most countries. Nevertheless, one has started earlier, in a way that is not according to a throbbing and completely absorbed vaccination process, but just to get started. I said this in the previous debate: that is a symbolic start; I do not choose to do so. In the use of the words "symbolic start" I unintentionally, I think, made it sound that I do not think it is meaningful. I think we should note that it is indeed meaningful. That's why I've been biting myself under the Christmas tree, although I've hardly seen a Christmas tree in the last 14 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u311	I had the impression that the Minister really wanted to give it that meaning. Mr Asscher fell on that. He said: "Don't patronize us like we have the very best system in the Netherlands. We're the third most innovative country in the world, but we're about at the end of vaccination. How is that possible? Give some more credits to others." That's what he called for. Nevertheless, the Minister continued to persist, including questions that were asked: "We should not go along with that. That's symbolic. That is the celebration of Von der Leyen, of the European Commission, to show that something is happening, that they are giving a little direction." What makes you say afterwards: I don't think it's a smart strategy of my own to be a little condescending about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u312	What I just said. I think it's good to say that symbolism matters. That symbolism matters. Look at France. You could say, "France's only got 500 shots." I think that was the last number I ran into. You can also say: yes, but they also put 500 shots. They weren't on that card in the newspaper as "not yet started." At the same time, you can see that all countries are struggling to get the vaccination operation going properly. That's just because it's complex. I do not exclude that things that are now reported abroad can also occur in the Netherlands. Although I believe that the GD is insanely carefully prepared, it can of course prevent things from happening here as well. We should be open to that. It's possible. But indeed, that symbolism is not insignificant. I think I should just admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u313	Finally, a slightly different question. Such an ICT system is, of course, quite uncertain, in that sense, is also my experience, that large-scale ICT systems work differently than you really thought before. That's not just within the government, it's outside. I am surprised that there is such a tight organisation on making the vaccine available and that we want it to arrive exactly on that date. I can also imagine you saying, "Let's not take any chances, and let's make sure we're done a week early." Then you say: we're just ready; that doesn't mean it's coming a week earlier, but that's just in case we run into something else in that test phase, or that there's still some knotting to do in those ICT systems, or that there's still a lot to do in there. What makes us so tight?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u314	The central registration system is not so much the issue. It was the following point in this case, and that is exactly the point I am saying: that is why I should have instructed the GGD earlier to prepare for the eventuality that they should have started working on this large-scale pricks six months earlier. The assumption was that the GGDs would only get started when we would have to work with 18- to 60-year-olds. And why? Around the summer we reviewed the implementation strategy of the vaccination. RIVM did a reconnaissance for that. How can you do that best? That is by using the vaccination channels that we also use in the flu vaccination. That is what we came up with, because the target groups are the same and there is experience with them. Given the complexity and all the unknowns, you then make use of the experience that exists. That is to say: the GGDs for 18- to 60-year-olds, the GPs for 60-plussers and vulnerable people under 60 and also some smaller groups through institutional doctors or through company doctors. Considering everything, that was the easiest way to start vaccination. With that as a basis, the GGD could really assume that it would take months before one would have to prick large-scale. So the idea wasn't "we're going to steer the schedule very tight so you're just finished in advance." The GGD was able to assume that it would really take some time before his assistance would be sought. Where did that really change? I have always argued that we should remain agile. I will explain in this way how we now incorporate this in the further development of the strategy. But the agility that had to be exercised by the GGD, namely by being ready in a month and actually getting to work six months earlier, meant not so much for the locations. The GGD is very handsome in setting it up very quickly, manning it, etc. But in particular the preparation of the IT system was the biggest bottleneck, because some things in that system really had to be finished on the basis of the advice of the Health Council and its medical contraindications. They had to be incorporated into the call script. Then it had to be assembled, tried out, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u315	Then I have Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u316	My question to the Minister is also about the debate we had here earlier, on 17 December. At that time, of course, it was also about this point: shouldn't the Minister have already engaged in the discussion with the GGDs in order to follow the path of these strategies and see if they could? I literally asked him that at the time. At that time, I stated that he did not go to the GD until it became clear that one strategy was no longer working and another strategy was needed and that he was therefore too late. His answer was: no, I do not agree with Mrs Marijnissen. Today, the Minister says: I should perhaps have knocked on the door earlier. My question is then: what exactly has changed in those three weeks? What's known now was known then, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u317	Let me not mention again all those moments in time, because I think we have sufficiently shared them, but I have, of course, seen what could have been accelerating in the period from the admission by the EEA until it could actually start by the GD's. If you count back, we would have heard on the 1st that the EEA would come with that on the 29th. Then I said: in the week of 4 January we want to be able to start, if everything is in order. Everything was fine, so we can indeed start on the week of January 4th. Fortunately, this is unchanged, but we have of course seen that a number of steps had to be taken in the period between the authorisation by the EEA and the actual start of the GGDs. The main bottleneck in it was to adapt the IT systems and test them before you went into operation. I thought of that: what if I had let the GGD anticipate the possibility that people would have had to work much earlier with a central puncture location, especially because of the preparation of the IT systems, could that have been accelerated? Now those ten days were in between. Could that have been a shorter period? I think that is indeed possible. How much? If you ask me, I'd say, "I don't know." I can't see that now. Then I would have had to make a replanning. But that would have been possible, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u318	The painful thing is, of course, that the conclusion is that the Minister was late again and that this has far-reaching consequences. The Minister himself now calls those ten days. The debate here is already very much about the fact that we are pretty much the last people in Europe to start vaccination. But what is also a consequence of choosing the wrong strategy and using the GGD too late to pursue another strategy, is that the most vulnerable people of whom the Health Council also advises to vaccinate first, will have to wait much longer. That is not, of course, about the two weeks that the debate is about all the time. I believe that these people will not be on the roll until mid-February to be vaccinated for the first time. I would also like to hear the Minister's views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u319	I'd love to. If you will allow it, Mr President, I am going to put together a number of questions also in the first term. Mr Dijkhoff's question was to really prepare us for different scenarios. You have seen that, for a number of reasons, this is actually a further development of the strategy as we have used it. What is the lesson, especially when it comes to maneuverability, that I have drawn myself? That you have to have multiple performers ready to work with the target groups that require the most attention, also because you can be asked to target a vaccine more or less for a particular target group until the last minute. The important development in the last week was that on 24 December in the evening we received an opinion from the Health Council that the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine should actually be used as much as possible for vulnerable elderly people in particular. That was, of course, not so easy to accommodate at the time, because the first group that was ready was precisely the employees around the elderly, the employees in the long-term care. If I had said on Christmas Eve "Okay, thank you for that advice; I'm going to think about whether we can fit that in," I think the staff in long-term care would have said, "Why? We are actually quite ready as the first group. So why?" So I chose to just start with the group we would start with first, but to do justice to the advice of the Health Council by working with that group of vulnerable elderly people earlier. I've chosen a number of ways to do that. I have therefore also met the Wilders motion. That's what I told him; that seemed sporty to me. That is because he has tabled this motion twice. I believe that I have once dissuaded the motion and once gave a ruling to the Chamber, but with a number of reservations. It's a complicated puzzle, but I tried to fit it in and I'll show you how. The first is that we start with that group of employees in long-term care. I didn't want to give up because I didn't think that was right in their direction. But I have agreed with the GGD that we will make a switch as soon as AstraZeneca enters: BioNTech/Pfizer for the 60-pluser and AstraZeneca for the employees in the care. The second point, which Mr Asscher pointed out, is that RIVM properly investigated in November whether it is possible to achieve small-scale administration of Pfizer. That has not been possible. When that advice came from the Health Council, RIVM looked at whether we could, also learning from other countries, see if it could be administered to general practitioners. For a great many reasons, then, we really go very deep into the technique We have asked for a second opinion on this, but it really has not been possible. So now we're looking again at whether it's not possible in the nursing homes, but at those larger locations where the repacking could indeed take place at the location itself. That makes it possible, where we actually want to use Moderna in the nursing homes, to play Moderna free by putting Pfizer in the nursing homes. What is the consequence of that? For example, you can operate the group 60-plussers at the GGD-prikstraten as soon as AstraZeneca enters. Thus you can serve the group 60-plussers at the GPs as soon as we have cleared Moderna by using Pfizer in the nursing homes. That's actually the switch we made in the performance for the target group of 60-plussers. There's an opinion from the Health Council that I received last night. In that the Health Council says: yes, but still you should do even more to serve an even larger group of elderly people, and thus a smaller group of employees in long-term care. I find that complicated, because that would mean that I would have to reverse some of the 408,000 time slots that I have now opened up to the GGD for long-term care and still have to free 60-plussers. I don't want to do that. I do not think that this is consistent with the long-term care staff. What I do want, of course, is that we get awarded AstraZeneca as soon as possible and can get started with it, so that we can make the switch as soon as possible. In addition, I have agreed with the RIVM that we will try to use Pfizer in the nursing homes as soon as possible, so that you do meet the advice by putting as much Pfizer in the nursing homes as possible. This means that the 408,000 time slots that are now open at the GGD for the employees remain just as 408,000. So those are all the deliveries we have in the Netherlands. We have put them in place for the long-term care staff at once. The Pfizer deliveries that are coming, I reserve to bet in the nursing homes. In this way, I respond to both the consistency and the retention of ring protection, as we agreed on in our strategy, as well as the advice of the Health Council to give Pfizer to the elderly before, and to the wishes of the Health Council and Mr Wilders sometimes those wishes coincide; you sometimes have this to see if we can't get to work with older people living at home sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u320	I do not want to make any faint remarks about the Minister's broad-spokeness, because I think it is quite good that he should explain exactly what the various vaccines are about, but in the end the bold conclusion is that we should be on the table here today, and I think that we should be the last to start vaccination in Europe and that this cabinet is unable to follow the advice of the Health Council and to vaccinate the most vulnerable people first. With that we could save most lives; let's face it. This could also reduce the pressure on health care and in hospitals the fastest. Not only do I find that painful, but I also want to hear from the cabinet today what it wants to do more than leave it at that conclusion and what we were able to read yesterday in the letter, namely ask RIVM to see if there might be something wrong with the Pfizer vaccine towards the nursing homes. I would also like to ask the Minister about this. It is really presented here as a fact that the vaccine that is now available cannot be used for the most vulnerable, because that would not be possible according to the RIVM. First of all, I'm very curious why it wasn't taken out of the closet in the time that this was already known to make it possible. Secondly, how can it be that the vaccine in Germany, Belgium and the United Kingdom is the first to inoculate the most vulnerable people, the inhabitants of the nursing homes? In Germany they go with mobile units to the nursing homes; no problem. Van Ranst said yesterday on Radio 1 that it's not that complicated: it's not that we have to send a man to the moon; it's a vaccine to a nursing home. Marcel Levi says it's really simple: you do it at a hospital in a taxi and you can vaccinate people. Why can it be done in all these other countries and not here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u321	Mrs Marijnissen asks for a number of things, and I would like to take them apart. The first is that Mrs Marijnissen notes that we would not follow the advice of the Health Council. That's not right. First of all, the Health Council's advice on 19 November was to choose the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them. That's the ring protection. That's what we do. It's the nursing home care staff we're gonna start with tomorrow, and we're not gonna stop until we're done. That is not correct: we are following the advice of the Health Council. Couldn't you bet even more Pfizer for vulnerable older people over 60? Yes, I could do that if I were to say to the GGD: quit the long-term care staff and use Pfizer only for the most vulnerable elderly. Why would you have to do that? Because the speed of pricking follows the speed of delivery. There is no more vaccine in the Netherlands than we are currently using. So you can't make a free choice. If Mrs Marijnissen wants us to be more committed to those who are most vulnerable, that can be a choice, then I must now order the long-term care staff and I must tell Mr Van Ark and the hospitals that the immediate care is not due. There's never a free choice. So it's really going to stay that way for the next couple of months. Scarce always means there's no free choice. I will answer this later on to a number of questions on priority. If we say someone has to go first, this means someone else has to go later. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u322	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u323	I find this rather impertinent of the Minister. Because this cabinet was too late, we, one, last in Europe, are going to start vaccinate and succeed, two, not to do what the Health Council recommends, namely to start with the most vulnerable. No one here is talking about free choices. My question is about what the cabinet wants to do to ensure that the most vulnerable people are also vaccinated first. I also asked why it could be done in Germany, Belgium and the United Kingdom. We hear it's not that complicated at all. But here we hear from this cabinet that logistics cannot be done and that was why we had to go to another strategy and why the GGDs weren't ready. The Prime Minister should not now simply bounce the ball back here and say that there are no free choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u324	I'm not Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u325	It was the cabinet itself that said: we don't get logistics in order, we're too late informing the GGD and that's why we're doing it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u326	This is at the heart of the debate. I think it's good to reconstruct this properly. The first is that on the 19th we received an opinion from the Health Council to which we responded on the 20th with a letter in the direction of your Chamber in which we established our vaccination strategy. It was initially about the order of the target groups. The order of the target groups presented by the Health Council in strategy one was: the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them in a ring around them. So it was about the most vulnerable people and ring protection. Then we came to the conclusion again, in the first week of December, that small-scale deployment of BioNTech/Pfizer was not possible at that time. There was a whole line of complexity, but it wasn't possible at the time. And so RIVM has advised me to ask the GGD to set up central locations and then start with BioNTech/Pfizer for the employees GGD, so Moderna is going to be able to use it for the most vulnerable people shortly after. That has been the approach we have chosen. Then came the advice of the Health Council of 24 December. That advice said: BioNTech/Pfizer works so incredibly well in elderly people that you should want to put as much as possible into it and thus give this less to employees. I didn't want that to lead me to the conclusion that I had to say to long-term care: then we'll push you further back. That is indeed a choice. There's a different choice. That's right. But I made that choice very conscious, because I found the expectation of long-term care, namely to belong to the whole first group, including as ring protection for the most vulnerable, to be a legitimate expectation. At the same time, of course, the Health Council says seriously: try to use more of BioNTech/Pfizer in the most vulnerable people. We will follow up on this as follows. One. As soon as Astra is inside, we switch the employees to Astra and that means we have BioNTech free for the 60-plussers who live at home. Two. We are going to use Pfizer in the larger institutions for disability care. We have asked RIVM to investigate this, but our intermediate position in it will have to be discussed further with the sector. Indeed, it is conceivable that you will be able to work with Pfizer, especially in the large institutions. This means that you can use Moderna again to use it through the general practitioners in the vulnerable elderly at home. In short, it is indeed a puzzle, in which you always look at how you could make maximum use of the implementing organisations and the most optimal properties of the vaccine. It's been a puzzle, but that's actually the details, as it says here. In this way I can respond to the question that Mr Wilders asked earlier: can you do the elderly living at home sooner? If you look now, the elderly living at home will be in the middle of March, grab a bite, deal with it. But if you ask me whether I am sure it will be or that it will be sooner or later, then the honest answer is that I cannot say that for a number of reasons. The first reason is: when is AstraZeneca coming? AstraZeneca has now submitted clinical data to the EEA. The EEA is now making the assessment, but the EEA has not yet given a positive opinion. In fact, there has not even been a formal application by AstraZeneca. That can happen very quickly in itself, but at the moment there is just no view on the first delivery of AstraZeneca. If it comes soon, I can make the switch. So that is an important factor. A second important factor is: how quickly can we start with Pfizer in the nursing homes? Once you can start with Pfizer in the nursing homes, you can free Moderna for the elderly at home. Then you can start with the general practitioners with the elderly at home. These are two important factors for making an earlier choice for the elderly at home. The task assigned to us by the Health Council as a cabinet is to continue the puzzle in this way, by doing everything possible to see if we could serve older people in the nursing homes with Pfizer earlier and older people at home with Moderna earlier. That's exactly what we're doing. Possibly we could serve them earlier in the needle streets, but that can only be done if Astra is delivered earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u327	Let me take a look at this: I see Mr Asscher, Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u328	That last answer to Mrs Marijnissen's question meant a little bit of the puzzle. I'd like to go back for a second anyway. The minister began by saying that he unintentionally by using the word "symbolically" caused misunderstandings in society or otherwise. The room. I wonder if that's actually the problem. When I think of the debate on 17 December, the Minister said that we are doing it more carefully and that the others are only doing it symbolically. By doing so, he implied that it was a deliberate choice of the cabinet to aim for January 8th and beyond. He also knew then that that was not a conscious choice at all, but that it could not be otherwise, because he was too late. Even if he had wanted otherwise, he wouldn't have been able to do it before. The question to the Minister is therefore whether he has properly informed the Chamber on 17 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u329	If I had wanted to change at that time, I could not have changed at that time, in the way that we had set up our process at the GGD, namely to be able to make a responsible start, using the IT system that had to be ready to start the registrations and so on. But I just want to take a few things apart. The first is that symbolic start. I also told you at that time that we had deliberately not chosen to do so. Also in conversation with our executive party we deliberately did not choose to do so. Then, like other countries, we could have made a start somewhere, without a registration system, without a registration system. We could have done the same, but I deliberately did not choose that at the time. I have just said that I wrongly said that this was a symbolic start, thereby unintentionally explaining that it was not meaningful. With that, I don't do justice to the symbolism of that starting moment. That's one. The second point is: could I, on 17 December, bring that whole process forward at the GGD, so that you could really make that production? The answer to that question is no. I couldn't do that anymore. I ordered the G.D.D. in the first week of December. The GGD then focused on the first week of January. You know that I said: if everything goes well, I hope for a start in the first week of January 4th. That was done, but I assumed an EEA that would give the opinion on admissions on 29 December, while the committee would take an authorisation decision on 31 December. With all the steps that still had to be taken, we could then start in the week of 4 January. On December 15th I heard that it would not be December 29th but December 21st. Then I couldn't push that process any further. That was also a very tight process to decorate. So the answer is: when I was in the debate with you on 17 December, I could not speed it up, not in an appropriate way. That is indeed the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u330	There was then a whole series of arguments: it was symbolic, we talked about that, and we are doing it carefully. At that time I asked whether they were poking around in Germany or whether it was not quite careful there. Another argument was: we do it according to our strategy and we do not deviate from it, for example with regard to hospitals. But none of that turned out to be at the heart of the problem. The essence of the problem was that we were too late. That is why we are now the last country in Europe to vaccinate. It would have decorated the Minister if he had replied in that debate and then said: we could have had a discussion about what could have been otherwise and how I look at other countries, but I am too late. That's what happened. Two, following Mrs Marijnissen's question, about the choice that is now being made. This is the first group to advise the Health Council. They advise to first the most vulnerable and the ring around it... But they are the first to mention the most vulnerable, because there is still to be looked at how strong the ring protection is. We do not know very well whether or not a vaccinee can transmit the virus. In my interpretation, therefore, the Health Council says: first do the residents and try to protect the employees around them as well. But we're doing the opposite now. I think the average age of the employees is 40 or so. It's a lot higher with the residents. So the question remains: why is it not learned from those mobile units in Germany? Why isn't it planned in parallel? Because every week you get more than 100,000 vaccines from Pfizer. Why is it not considered to adopt a single dose strategy for that BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine? I understand that this is a difficult discussion, but I see that in Denmark and in the United Kingdom they do make that choice at a high level of contamination for precisely that reason. Then the second dose may not be after three weeks, but after four, five or six. This is how we protect as many people as possible as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u331	That's a couple of questions in a row. The first question is: why not start with the most vulnerable people, because that is what the Health Council said? So that is what we have done, namely the most vulnerable people and the people who take care of them. That was the advice of the 19th. Then there was the advice of the 24th, having seen what the clinical data of the EEA was on the 21st. Then the Health Council said: you should actually use more of the BioNTech/Pfizer stuff for the most vulnerable people. So the Health Council said on the 19th: the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them. Based on this we made the translation to the first week of December BioNTech in the price streets of the GGD... Then we let the employees come. Of course, people in the nursing homes aren't that mobile. We'll do it with Moderna. That's gonna come right up. It's very close, so that's an appropriate strategy. Having heard on the 21st how effective BioNTech/Pfizer turned out, the Health Council said on the 24th: no, even more BioNTech/Pfizer bet for that most vulnerable group. At that point, I had two choices. I could have decided at that time, in the evening on the 24th, to order the employees long-term care anyway, in anticipation of AstraZeneca. Or I could try to use more BioNTech before for the nursing homes, by taking another look at the RIVM at what could be done via the general practitioners, well, that is really not possible either by looking at whether we could still, indeed looking abroad, with a bypass around all kinds of legal bumps, get started in those nursing homes. That's exactly what we're gonna do. In short, I think I always faithfully follow the advice of the Health Council, except for one point. I could have made a choice there that I didn't make. That's fair to say. I could have said, "Employees nursing home care, I'm going to call you off on Christmas Eve, because we're going to see if we can use it for the most vulnerable people first. We're gonna go to the G.D.D.'s shackles. Of course, it doesn't matter to the GGD who to invite. For example, we're going to prick elderly people living at home first. Then the employees move a little bit back." I could have done that. For the same reason, of course, I have looked very critically at the request from the hospitals. The hospitals said: yes, but the people in long-term care also have to go for it. Yeah, that's right, but when you give priority to a group, it's always at the expense of the group you're supposed to be doing. Then I just got the advice from the Health Council. At the same time, I think I will come back to it in a moment that it is a very legitimate request from hospitals, unlike other requests. So we've chosen the most vulnerable elderly and the ring protection around them. That's the Health Council of November 19th. Then it was chosen not to order that first group when we heard on the 24th, after EEA-admission, that you should actually use BioNTech where it turns out to be so incredibly effective, namely in that group of most vulnerable elderly people. Then you had to see how you could do that as soon as possible, both in the nursing homes and at home. I think we are really taking the fastest way to serve both the nursing homes with Pfizer and the elderly at home. At least I won't start with that group a day later if possible. The real game changer at that point does become AstraZeneca, because it simply adds a huge acceleration. Then there's another game changer. You can see them being considered in a number of countries. It is even being applied, namely increasing the interval between prick one and prick two. That's the advice I asked for. At least I hope to get that before 18 January. There is a lot to say for that, but also a number of things to say for that. In England, for example, the whole medical stand is actually against it. The manufacturer himself says: I'm sorry, but we didn't investigate that. In this way, there is also no authorisation given by EEA. So it is a variant of what is actually common to do, namely that you simply use it according to the clinical data, according to the studies that have been done. But given the state of the economy and given the possible presence of the British mutation on Dutch soil, I think it is a very considerable option. It could be enormously accelerating to provide at least something of protection, if it is justified. I put that question to a combination of the Health Council and the OMT. That's why I asked for a combination of both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u332	I am happy about that, because that might mean rapid protection for a lot of people. One final question on this point. Actually, the Minister says: I am doing what is advised, because I am going to have parallel residents and employees of nursing homes vaccinated. I read it differently. I read in the letter: I'm going to see if it might be possible to go to nursing homes on a small scale. Just like the Prime Minister spoke about it: not too much, it's very small. But it got a little bigger after that. How many doses are available for nursing homes to start using from tomorrow? I think that they are there, especially at the big institutions with a large pharmacy, eager to secure their residents. We see in the figures how many nursing homes there are again infections. So that's going to give a damn about lives and seriously ill people. How many doses are available now? How many doses can be used, if the green light is given in other countries, to protect people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u333	I don't quite understand that green light in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u334	That's where they already vaccinate the residents of the nursing homes. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u335	Ah, well. What am I trying to do right now? At the moment, we have around 600 institutions in sight, with a total of 2,500 locations, nursing and disability care institutions, out of 10,000 for which it should be possible, with repacking, to still use the Pfizer vaccine. But that is currently under investigation, as I wrote in the letter. This is being further developed at the moment, including with the sectors. You can't imagine them being punctured next week. There are a number of reasons for this. Those deliveries have yet to come in. The deliveries that have now been received have been converted into those 408 pinning slots for the staff in nursing care. Next week's deliveries and the following week, I believe, will be put aside for administration in nursing care. If we can start with that, it is really an issue that needs to be worked out in the next week. People will then have to be invited to vaccination. Because they are partly people for whom permission is to be given by the client representative, this goes hand in hand with a process of arranging consent statements, so it really takes a while, possibly a week or three, before you could start. I myself do not have the impression that we can start with this for the first week of February, but everything is being done to make it happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u336	Go ahead, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u337	I didn't intend to interrupt, because it went in the direction of a reassurance: we do it in the nursing homes parallel, with the residents and the staff there. But the answer to my question is how many doses are available for that, is zero. So the answer is zero. At the earliest, people will be protected at the beginning of February. I think that is a very different picture than both the Prime Minister and the Minister just outlined here. I understand you're saying for logistical reasons, we have to do it at the same time. I also understand that you can get the care workers to come to those streets. But I don't understand why you're saying "we're gonna do it right now," when basically zero vaccines are reserved for it. That's one. Two: I don't understand why you don't start until February. That gives the impression that you're, again, too late. Because nursing home residents were already in the opinion of 19 November. This also applies: thinking about how to obtain permission could have happened a long time ago. I honestly don't understand what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u338	That's also worked out, but you can't ask for permission until you know which vaccine you're going to administer. Until 24 December, my intention was to administer Moderna to the nursing homes. We could make a switch by releasing the vaccine that has already been delivered to the nursing homes, but that can only be done in one way, namely by telling some of the staff in nursing care that they are coming later. That's the only way to free the vaccine that's already been delivered. Unless you say to the acute care, you'll come later anyway. That's the only way. What exactly are we doing? The vaccine that has been delivered, we convert into those needle locks for the staff in nursing care. There are 408,000 employees in total for 204,000, based on a vaccination readiness of about 75%. That could be enough for nursing care in two times three weeks, so a cycle of two times three weeks. That has been opened up for the coming time; it is so put away at the GGD. There is a way to still administer the Pfizer vaccine in the institutions in nursing care. It is now being worked with man and power to achieve that. But that means that you have to reserve next week's deliveries and the next week's deliveries for them. So we're not gonna open any extra stick slots at the GGD for that. We'll reserve it for administration in the nursing homes. That's what we do. Then we work out the fastest way to proceed to administration. But we must also honestly say that we will not be able to do so within a week. It's just too complex for that. You won't be able to do that in a week. I don't think it's fair to say: oh, so you were too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u339	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u340	We have at all times, as the Health Council indicated to us, made that choice that given the circumstances was most obvious. Unless we make the choice to say: those staff in nursing care really have to wait a little longer. And that's a really different choice, but then we have to explicate it too. But I don't think that's what the Chamber's asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u341	That choice has not been presented to us, Mr President. This can't be happening. On December 27th, the vaccines arrive. They're gonna go in the freezer. We are now hearing, standing in this debate, that the group that the Health Council said was a priority in November and December, because this vaccine of all vaccines that protects people best, not on 8 January, not on 4 January, not on 6 January but perhaps in February. At its fastest! The cabinet takes great responsibility there, because this is the most vulnerable group with the most deaths. We saw what happened in spring, when there were no protective equipment, when there was this so-called silent disaster. We've seen what happens to the infections in the nursing homes now. The cabinet here says, no, we're not late. Logistics has no choice but to do it. We've always made all the choices that make sense. But I note that in many other countries a different choice is being made, with that group being protected earlier. I find that incredibly easy to say right now: then your Chamber should cancel care worker Pietje or Annie. No, it's the cabinet's responsibility to make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u342	Mr President, this is really not a correct representation. I have submitted to the Chamber at all times, but also at all times, the choices we make in the vaccination strategy. On November 19th, you received the advice of the Health Council. On 20 November we gave the cabinet response to the opinion of the Health Council. In that response to that advice, we made exactly the choice we are making now. You didn't question him. Never! We then sent the Health Council's advice to your Chamber again on 24 December. You didn't question that. On the basis of these opinions, we have come to the choices we make. And based on those advices, starting with the advice of the Health Council on the 19th, it was decided to opt for ring protection, namely employees in nursing home care, and as soon as possible afterwards, but actually in the same group along because Moderna would come so quickly, the residents in the nursing homes. We don't have to repeat the whole repack discussion. What we wanted on the 24th is to see if it could not be done through the general practitioners. No, that didn't turn out to be possible. So we're still trying to do it through nursing care. With this we can clear Pfizer for the elderly at home and for nursing care. And I think there is a good opportunity to do that in the shortest possible time. You ask: is there any way to do it even faster? Yeah, there's one way to do it even faster. Surely that's what the nursing home workers say: you'll get your turn later. And that's a choice I didn't want to make, for the reasons you mention. Because then I would have to tell those nursing staff: no, you'll come later. That did not seem to me on Christmas Eve to be the message you have to give to the staff in nursing care, precisely because of everything they have been through in the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u343	Mr Klaver and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u344	This is the biggest bullshit I have heard in this debate. No one's talking about making the batch that's now in Oss available to other people. Nobody!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u345	Well, I think so. I think that was what Mr Asscher just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u346	I think I was still speaking and you didn't hear me correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u347	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u348	No one's saying that here. The point that's going on right now is there's gonna be a next batch. We'll have new vaccines next week. We want them to be used as soon as possible for the most vulnerable groups. The Minister now says: yes, we will do that from February. What my colleague Asscher does not understand, what I do not understand and what I do not think anyone here understands is: why should it then take another three weeks to inoculate in the institutions? Why isn't that organized? It's not in order. So even if we decided now that we wouldn't do the hospital and nursing staff, we wouldn't be able to vaccinate the residents of the nursing homes. 'Cause it's not in order. You don't have the distribution in order. So that's what you haven't done lately. The question we are asking: can you ensure that next week, when the new vaccines arrive in the Netherlands, you can proceed to vaccination in the nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u349	The answer to that question is no, but the answer to the question "can you make sure that the vaccines coming in next week are properly reserved for the people in the nursing homes?" is yes. That is exactly what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u350	Booking? I'm sorry, you're apologizing that you really should've given the order to the G.D.D. sooner. And now we're chasing the facts again. So next week, another vaccine comes in. That's what we're going to reserve, so we're going to put that back in the cooler, wait until we can spread it under the nursing homes. Why is it not possible to distribute these vaccines at this dose next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u351	The RIVM is also trying to clear those vaccines for the nursing homes. That means that puzzle is being laid right now. I can't tell you right now when it's time to start working in individual nursing homes. But I'm saying, the moment you want to work with the people in the nursing homes, you're gonna have to ask the client representatives for permission. That must be an authorisation that is also written, not only for registration in the central register but also for vaccination itself. So that's one element. The second element is that this repacking must be done in a responsible way. But I think I have to translate Mr Klaver's question in this way: make sure that it is dealt with as quickly as possible, so that there is as little reservation as possible in the freezer, and get on with it as quickly as possible. I do, but I'm not going to promise here that it's early next week, because it's really a little too complex for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u352	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u353	I'm not asking for a promise here. I'm surprised it's not settled. If you say: I have to ask permission to vaccinate people... Just now, in reply to Mr Asscher, you said: yes, you have to know which vaccine it is about. That's what happens, we know: BioNTech/Pfizer. So there's nothing that's gonna bother us to ask that permission very quickly right now. I come across a great many people who would very much like the people who live there, for whom they are responsible, to be vaccinated. So we can ask for that permission in advance. The repacking takes place in Germany, which happens in Belgium, which happens in other places. We should be able to do the same here. So, to be perfectly honest, I really don't get what the bottleneck is to start next week. I'm not asking for a promise, I just want concrete answers, except it's a very complicated puzzle. Why can't we get that permission to start now? And why can't we repack next week? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u354	Then I'll start explaining that again on Christmas Eve, on that advice from the Health Council. This has been a reason to look: can it still be done with the general practitioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u355	Don't go to Christmas, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, or we'll get another long answer that won't do us any good. You don't have to go all the way back in the timeline to Christmas Eve every time. We're asking a question now. Next week, we'll have that vaccine. We know that this advice has been there for a while, and we also know that the delivery of this vaccine is already in the pipeline. So the Minister is already aware that he could reserve this for these groups. So the first question is: why didn't anything happen to this last week, and what's going to happen this week to get those permissions, to get the repackage? These are all things you can just prepare. That's really the heart of the matter: preparing. Why isn't it happening? Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u356	On Christmas Eve, the Health Council recommended that more BioNTech/Pfizer be released for the elderly, because the characteristics of that vaccine are that it works so well in the elderly. The next step is that the next week, between Christmas and New Year's Eve and New Year's Eve, we used it to see if we could make it smaller through the general practitioners. Well, 5,500 GPs, and all the requirements, not only around the cooling but also around the continuous process of pricking, makes it, given the size of the delivery that is very low, given the complexity, unwise to do so. This would have led to 66,000 transport movements, etc. So that was unwise to do. Then we said: yes, but we have to take this advice from the Health Council seriously, so let's see if we can make it possible for these nursing homes to be administered. We did. And we think that's possible. So much for last night's score. So much for the stand you have been informed of in the letter: we think it is possible to get to work in those nursing homes. And we'll do that in the shortest possible time. But you say just do it next week. It's too complex for that. Let me assure you that we will continue to work on this work process and I will inform your Chamber of the time in which that start can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u357	This is the first time we've been vaccinating. There's gonna be a lot more. Two weeks ago it was clear that more doses of this vaccine should be reserved for the elderly. We've been two weeks. What I don't understand is that no plan has yet been worked out to distribute this. The people we are talking to, who are doing this in Germany, the UK or Belgium, are actually saying that it is a fairly clear operation. You can take it to hospitals or big institutions. Sixty-six thousand transport movements? I'll give them up for it. So the question is, why hasn't this worked out in the last two weeks? I just don't get it. Why can't the Minister tell us what the state of affairs is now and what the plans are? Why is the Chamber not further informed about this? On December 24th we received the advice. We're two weeks later now. Only five weeks after the advice came, we'll be able to inoculate. I think that's a really long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u358	Mr President, this recapitulation of what I have just said simply does not do justice to reality. No way. Let's just look at the facts as they are. Then we'll start vaccinating tomorrow. That's one. Two is: could I have made another choice? Yes, I could have made a different choice if I had ordered the group of long-term care workers and the group of nursing home workers. I didn't. We then said, for the sake of the advice of the 24th, that we are going to use Pfizer for the target group that the Health Council says is actually the primary target group. We tried that first through the GPs, but it really wasn't possible. We have indeed made every effort to make this possible, but it was really irresponsible to do so. That finding was made by RIVM together with the LHV. Then we said that we would definitely try again in the nursing homes. Looks like there's potential there. In the meantime, we have indeed said to the GGD: we just want everything there is now in delivery, and more than that, to be turned off in the time slots as you can open them now. Indeed, 408,000 time slots were opened yesterday for 204,000 employees. About next week's deliveries and a week later, we told the GGD: they don't go to the GGD's pricks, they go to the nursing homes. Next, RIVM, together with the nursing homes and the disability care institutions that are somewhat larger, will see how to get it there in the fastest possible way possible. Then we have the vaccines available, because that is what we are reserving for. On 'the fastest possible way' I say: the consent will still have to be arranged. So you really didn't set that up after noon. We shouldn't sell that assumption either. I think we should take implementation seriously and not ignore what the implementation says about it. So don't say, "Just do it," go on, drive it in. I don't think that's the way to do this. I assure you, I'll let you know as soon as we think we can get started. That's not slowing down or anything. It's not a question of "too late." It is a matter of making choices when those choices are actually being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u359	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u360	We will have another debate here in four weeks' time, and I think it is: yes, we have misjudged it. That's the way it goes all the time. I'm beginning to find it disturbing, I tell the Minister, that he's starting to hang up the whole story about how things have been lately. That we should order the vaccines or not give them to the nursing home staff or the people in the acute care: that is not the point at all. Next week we'll have a new batch and we'll make a reservation. So what is the actual situation in the Netherlands? On Christmas Day we received vaccines here in the Netherlands. We're only fully operational with these vaccines on January 18th. Tomorrow we'll start with small quantities and then we'll be really operational. We're getting a new batch next week. We're gonna make a reservation. In any case, it should remain in storage for at least three weeks until we're done. If this is the implementation of the vaccination strategy, something goes badly wrong. This is about life and death. If we received this advice on 24 December, my question is: why didn't we start getting permissions? If we received that advice on 24 December, why isn't the plan now ready for distribution to the nursing homes? It just didn't happen. I would like to have an overview from the Minister of what happened in detail from 24 December to now when it came to drawing up the distribution plan and the plan for obtaining the consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u361	It's very simple. When we heard that on the 24th, we first checked with each other to see if you wouldn't have to do it through the GPs. That's the first choice we've made. And why? Because through these general practitioners you could serve the elderly at home and the small-scale institutions where a general practitioner pricks. That's the first choice we've made. We put everything there on top of it. We checked with an external agency to see if it was really certain that it was unfeasible. It was only when this conclusion was reached that we said that we would look again at whether it could not be done in the larger nursing homes. Those are the steps we took.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u362	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u363	It's another game of open doors and answers that I've already gotten four times. I'm asking for specific answers. What happened and who's doing this right now? Which logistics parties are currently in contact with? How is it ensured that there is sufficient cooling capacity? What steps have been taken in this regard? That's exactly what I want to see. The Minister always has very nice words: we'll be fine, look what we've done, very difficult and complicated. It's not gonna be okay. We know that now. It's not gonna be okay. Trying to blow the Chamber off a little bit, having trouble looking and sighing and supporting when he gets difficult questions. Why don't you give me a concrete answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u364	Unbelievable. I will indeed let the Chamber know what steps have been taken. You will be impressed by what steps have indeed been taken between Christmas and old and new, 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u365	Then Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u366	I can only agree with Mr Klaver and other colleagues. This is for people in nursing homes literally about life and death. Three weeks later, receiving a vaccine means that people will not be vaccinated for three weeks and can die sooner, regardless of the infection. I just told the Prime Minister, who is now playing with his phone: do you know what you will say when you hear 186,000, a total of 300,000, vaccines are not being distributed? And now, indeed, the next one. The people in the nursing homes, on which the Health Council advised first, will now have to wait until February. This is a first-order bunch of crap, isn't it, Mr. Secretary? I just asked you, how do you feel about it? Surely it is very bad that you have not prepared it and that, when those extra vaccines arrive tomorrow, we have to wait until February for the most vulnerable people to receive a vaccine. You can't be serious. Shouldn't that have been prepared by now? And if that is not prepared, I would almost say, when next week arrives: bring it there! Let the people in the nursing homes themselves apply those injections. Let them vaccinate it. Don't wait three weeks. Waiting two or three weeks means a lot of people who could die sooner. You don't want that on your conscience, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u367	Mr. Chairman. This does not do justice not only to the steps we have taken, but also to reality. The fact is that the vaccines as they are in the Netherlands are all being used in the coming weeks to inoculate the employees in long-term care. The fact is that, when the Health Council said on the 24th "you should actually want to reserve those Pfizer vaccines more for that older group," we looked into whether it could be done through the general practitioners. That has not been possible. We checked again whether it could be done through the nursing homes, the large-scale nursing homes, if you could do that repacking there. The answer is 'yes, it seems to be possible' and we will do so in the shortest possible time. How do you get vaccines for that? Well, by converting the batches that come in next week not also into pinball slots on the GGD street, but by converting them into reservations for the nursing homes. We'll start with that at the shortest possible time. I couldn't have made any other choices, because before there was no other vaccine. I could have made one other choice and that was on Christmas Eve ordering off the staff in nursing care. I didn't do that, and I stand for not doing that. That was the only other choice I could have made in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u368	I'm not interested in the choice you could have made. I am concerned about those older people who, according to the opinion of the Health Council, should have been the first to be eligible for a vaccine. And it is unacceptable and unacceptable that the next batch, which is coming next week, should be the next week, Madam President: 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 January? We'll have to wait another two or three weeks. That is unacceptable. That should have been prepared, and if it had not been prepared or could not have been prepared, you will have to arrange for them to arrive next week, at the shortest possible time. You can't have 180,000 vaccines in the freezer in Oss for three weeks, or almost two weeks, and nothing happened to them, now what's coming next week, leaving that next batch, two, three weeks in the freezer and keeping people waiting and dying while the vaccine is already in the Netherlands? You can't do that, can you, Mr. Secretary? You can't take responsibility for that, can you? We have to be able to pay you for that, don't we? If you had prepared that, and if you can't, you say, "Well, that's coming next week, and I'm going to make sure that if it's there next Monday, we'll have Thursday or Friday in the nursing homes next week. It doesn't matter how I do it. If I split it up, I'm gonna ask the people to prick it myself. If necessary, I will do some administrative work or later, and those permissions will come. That may not be by the rules, but if it is there on Monday, I must have it in the nursing homes Friday or Thursday." Are you willing to admit it, and break iron with your hands if it is necessary to do so? I say again: this is about human lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u369	I would like to do justice to the steps we have taken. We looked into whether we could administer these Pfizer vaccines small-scale in the elderly, and we tried. We have tried to do this through the general practitioners, but that has not been possible and so we choose to do it through the nursing homes. Two is: all the vaccines as they are, I have indeed converted into appointments for the nursing home staff. I could have made another choice there, but I didn't make it. I don't hear Mr Wilders making it either. That means that the next batch that comes in and is delivered next week is meant for the nursing homes. In the shortest possible time it will be made available to the nursing homes that can start with it. That's what I promise you. I cannot tell you today what this'shortest possible deadline' is, because it will be worked out in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u370	I want you to promise us that this "shortest possible term" can never be two or three weeks. It is unthinkable that we should be in a situation again in the Netherlands where we have enough vaccines for nursing homes in a freezer box with the next batch, but those vaccines will remain in the cold for a few weeks. So I want you to promise that if you get a batch next week that will be in the nursing homes within seven days. I don't even care how you do it; I may not even want to hear how you do it. I hope you'll agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u371	What I promise you is that this will happen in the shortest possible time. That's what I just promised you, and I'm sticking with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u372	And that could also be three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u373	What I promise you is the shortest possible deadline. What that deadline is really a point of implementation at the moment. I'm not gonna stand here and negotiate with you about what's possible and what's not possible. Then we wouldn't take the execution seriously, would we? The performers are working on it 24 hours a day and looking at what can be done faster, what can be done differently, what can be done better, over and over and over again. That's exactly the way we've been working all the time, over the past few weeks and months. That way we're working. That's what we're gonna do in the next few days. And I must say that I will inform your Chamber at the shortest possible time what 'the shortest possible period' is to be able to deliver those deliveries that are coming in next week, i.e. the deliveries that have been received in recent weeks in nursing care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u374	I want to know before the debate next week, probably on Wednesday, by means of the letter you send to the Chamber on Tuesday, when exactly the batch that arrives next week will be made available to the nursing homes. Mr GroenLinks has just asked for a kind of report on what you have done. When exactly will that batch be made available to the nursing homes? I want you to write that down in that Tuesday's letter, and then you'll have a week to settle it. That letter should say when it will be. Is that the same week? Is it after a week or two weeks? You say now: at the shortest possible time. I ask you to fill that in next Tuesday's letter so that we can see when it will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u375	Which I've already promised you several times, Mr. Chairman. And I don't need that encouragement either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u376	I have a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u377	Good. There is a point of order. Mrs. Van Kooten. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u378	Now it seems like the Minister is giving all sorts of promises. We got a flowchart that says it starts in January. The Minister can't stand it now, because he says, "I'll do it as soon as possible." But it's probably February. So I think it's better for the record that either that flowchart goes off the table again, or that it's being adjusted. But the Chamber was allowed to count on it to be true at least for one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u379	No. That's a nice debate trick, but that's not true. It says that we would start in the nursing homes, not in January. This flowchart says: in February.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u380	But this is not a point of order. I will give you the floor in a moment, but first is Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Then you will have the floor. This is just a discussion with the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u381	Mr President, thank you. I can actually hear the Minister constantly saying: ring protection. I didn't tart, but I've heard him say that at least twenty times. I would like to hear from the Minister who is best protected by the care workers, regardless of the fact that I believe that everyone believes that care workers should be optimally protected, but also the most vulnerable elderly people they care for. Who is optimally protected by these vaccinations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u382	The most vulnerable people and the people who take care of them. That's just the advice of the Health Council of November 19th.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u383	Now the first care workers are vaccinated. It'll take another three weeks until the next shot. After a few weeks the protection is 95%. The fact is, you can still be contagious. If you have been vaccinated, I hope the Minister agrees with me, then it is not that you can no longer infect others. You just don't get sick or any less. We just don't know yet if you're less contagious to others. So if you wanted to protect the most vulnerable, in this case the elderly, would it have been much wiser to start with those most vulnerable? And so the care workers are in parallel, but at least those most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u384	So it is also more or less parallel. We're both trying to do that as soon as possible. It is true what Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen says that there is not so much knowledge yet about the extent to which people can no longer become ill with vaccination, but are no longer part of the spread. It is generally assumed that this is the case, because there is at least a lower viral load, but we certainly do not yet. Mr Wilders asked two weeks ago: how long will it take us to know? I also put that question to the Health Council and the OMT. I know there's research going on in England, but it's really gonna take a couple of months before we know for sure. But back to the advice of the Health Council: the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them, ring protection. That does indeed mean that we are making this choice. Pfizer and Moderna are very close together in terms of admission. I hope that this week I actually thought last night the admission of Moderna is coming. Then we hope to get the delivery schedules from Moderna as soon as possible. That will really start with a rather small delivery, because that's how it always works. But we hope to get to work with both groups as soon as possible. That is precisely why I am releasing Pfizer vaccines in order to be able to give them to the elderly before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u385	What I myself understood from a former OMT member is that there may be an abortive infection. That means that the virus can still multiply in the throat, in the nose and in the lungs, and that as caregivers, without being sick yourself, you can still infect the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u386	That's conceivable. That is why we also say to all employees in the care: even if you have been vaccinated, still use protective equipment. This applies both to acute care and to long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u387	That was also a question I asked in my first term. Perhaps the Minister will come to that now, but he now calls it the protective equipment. I was on a window call last week at a nursing home. I asked through the window: "Why do you have those blue masks, which we can all buy at the Kruitvat and at the supermarket, in proven covid patients, and not those special, good masks, those PPF2 masks with the valve, which close completely? Why are you still using those masks?" The healthcare worker said: "I did ask for it, but it was said that this was enough. I do have a splash shield. I've got two gloves on top of each other. Then I'll take off one pair and then I'll disinfect my mask." Why is that? Why do care workers still work in nursing homes with masks like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u388	I don't know. In any case, there is no obstacle in terms of availability. Hundreds of millions of dollars are available in the warehouses. All the nursing homes, all the care facilities have plenty of stuff. So there is no problem with availability. Is there any ambiguity about a directive? Yes, if there is any ambiguity about a directive, that is, I would think, a reason to report it to the inspection. But of course I don't know this situation. So I find it difficult to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u389	I would certainly like to state, outside this debate, which health care institutions are involved, but I am really shocked by that. In the meantime, there are also more than eleven people in this department, and I do not know what the situation is, but at least eleven people in that department were infected. The virus's been in that nursing home for about two weeks now. It is shocking that eleven care workers are infected while working with the most vulnerable. And then they work with masks like that. And this vaccination strategy. It makes me very despondent. Does the Minister understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u390	Honestly, I don't think that's so easy to understand. I think it's just really two different things: which part of the stuff do you reserve for the employees and which part of the stuff do you reserve for the residents? We've made choices about that. We make these choices in the best possible way and as quickly as possible. Again, the first weeks of delivery we spend on the employees. We reserve the follow-up deliveries for the residents, so that we can also use Pfizer as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u391	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u392	I have another question about vaccination. The minister's letter of office stated that the cabinet requested advice from the OMT and the Health Council regarding the postponement of the second vaccination. It was just said a few times. The vaccine manufacturers are actually saying that this is very dangerous. You take a real risk, not only the risk that the vaccine will work less well, but also the risk that the virus will mutate and that you will get a resistant virus for which the vaccination will not work at all. Is the Minister aware of this? If that is already said by the vaccine manufacturer himself, why has an opinion been requested from the OMT?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u393	We do not really know enough about it. There is currently a change in the UK. That is what the pharmaceuticals are saying at the moment: it is not likely that our vaccine would not be suitable for the protection required for this mutation. But I also hear other sounds. I only heard, for example, that the South African variant would be different again. I can't answer the question as to what exactly is going on right now. I don't think anyone can answer that right now. That must be demonstrated in the coming period. That is why we are indeed asking that question to the Health Council and the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u394	That wasn't exactly my question. Maybe I should make it clearer. I'm interested in the escape mutants. If you've received the first vaccination and you don't get it within three weeks, within those 21 or 28 days depending on the vaccine, the next shot, then you can develop a mutation that is no longer susceptible to vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u395	I know what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u396	It is precisely by postponing that second vaccination that you run the risk of mutating the virus, which means that the whole vaccination will no longer protect you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u397	I know what you mean. This is precisely why we are asking the experts in the Health Council and the OMT. There are really different views about it. You can look at it in an epidemiological way. Then you have to say: maybe it could slow down the speed of the spread. If we know that we have a UK mutant who might spread faster and you could offer some of the protection by putting that first shot in front of you and also some of the brakes in the dispersal we all don't know yet, but that could be an assumption that might help in slowing down the speed at which the British variant is spreading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u398	Perhaps it would be a good idea to discuss the English version as well, because that was one of the topics on which you would answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u399	Let me finish my speech. So that could be a reason. You mention a reason not to. There are more reasons not to. That's why I put it right to the people of the Health Council and the OMT. I'm not just gonna sit there and freestyle. I am asking for advice on whether it is wise to do so. Then the answer may also be: for one vaccine you can do just fine, but for the other vaccine that is not wise. That could still be the case. There is therefore no definitive answer now either. At least in the countries that are already doing it, there is a lot of discussion about it. A very large part of the medical stand says: don't go there, please don't. Mr. Chairman. Then it might be good to continue with the questions that have been asked. A lot of questions have been answered in between, so let me see how we can arrange that most conveniently. Let me come back to Mr Dijkhoff's question, whether we are preparing different scenarios. Yes, I would like to emphasise that we are now putting different scenarios next to each other, precisely because of the manoeuvrability. As you can see, for example, for 60-plussers, we put the general practitioners' scenario and the GGD scenario side by side. In fact, I think that we should use both GPs and GGD for 60-plussers. We'll do that for 60-min. That's a very large group, 7 million people. That is, of course, the largest group. Normally, you'd say that's what the G.D.D. can do. But because we want to switch in parallel and as soon as possible, actually as soon as it is delivered, we also want to be able to start pricking so we let the deliveries be leading for the prick speed so we have said that we are going to switch that parallel. To free up Moderna vaccine for the elderly at home, from the nursing homes, Pfizer is used. So there, too, both vaccines are actually being used in the nursing homes. That is what we are doing in the field of disability care. For example, I try to switch side by side, to switch parallel, and thus also to stay agile and to anticipate different scenarios. In addition, there is of course the scenario of acceleration by working with a larger interval between prick one and prick two. That is, of course, also a scenario that we are investigating. A very bad scenario would be if AstraZeneca didn't come. That saves so many millions. Then we really need to go back and see who we're gonna stick in what order. Then the question becomes much more relevant as to whether your employees should indeed be pushed back and still move older people forward. Now the moment of being able to start is still about the same, with a few weeks apart. But you wouldn't be able to live up to that. That does indeed mean that you will have to make another choice. In short, the scenarios are actually legion, but the way we are working on the vaccination strategy now is the result of what, as far as I am concerned, is the lesson of the past few months: yes, we thought manoeuvrability was important, but I think that the possibilities of actually exercising that manoeuvrability are much greater with this choice. So this is how we want to work very consciously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u400	Mr Dijkhoff and then Mr Pieter Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u401	I understand what the Minister is saying, but there is one element that I think... I don't want a word game about what "scenario" is, but I do see that you can move there, that you can change your prioritization, or that, if there is a hiccup that makes a group you wanted first less fast, you can bring out another group. But then the minister said, "Imagine not getting a vaccine approved." Yeah, then you have to start thinking about how to take that, but that's exactly what you want scenarios for: imagine if it doesn't come around or imagine if you can buy more of Pfizer or have Pfizer before, how are we going to use such a difficult vaccine for certain groups? The discussion that has just taken place may also have arisen from the fact that there are two different dates in two schemes: one is in February and the other is in January-February. I understand that people think: if you have now assigned the vaccine to a particular group, then scenario thinking is not only that if that vaccine is delayed and if another vaccine comes in more, the group belonging to that other vaccine is coming forward. Then there is also whether you can use the group you would have liked to do earlier, in that scenario perhaps with another vaccine, because otherwise all those groups will remain linked to a vaccine, there will remain a certain rigidity in it and determine the delivery, the delivery rate and eventualities in it and no longer necessarily the wishes and the order that are important from a medical point of view, who are the first to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u402	I know what you're saying. I also believe that we are doing our job in this way, but I think that it remains so that the speed of delivery, the extent of delivery and the changes in it are the great determining factor in the speed with which you can vaccinate and, in fact, the order in which you can vaccinate. Let us take the example of AstraZeneca; Mr Heerma also had a question about that. AstraZeneca is either a huge acceleration of the operation or a damper for the first quarter, because if AstraZeneca doesn't get through and if we can't do with it also the care workers, that means that we have to rearrange the order for that reason, also in the order. In fact, that is an incredibly decisive factor. You are right to ask: are you working out the what ifs, so scenarios in which that delivery or delivery does not come through? The answer is yes. In addition, I think that we increase our manoeuvrability by switching in parallel to the use of vaccines for a particular type of clients at Moderna and BioNTech/Pfizer is the assumption, for example, that you can use both in that older group and in the vaccination channels, for example by addressing the general practitioners and the GGD both for the large 60-min group and for the large 60-plus group and asking them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u403	In addition, I think it's important because it can also help to build understanding if you've already worked out the scenario, even if you don't need it or don't want to. You have the disadvantage that you have to control a crisis at a time when everyone has an opinion and gets information from all over the world. For example, I do not understand that Belgium is stuck with 500 vaccines, while there were 1,000 in a box. I don't know what happened to the other 500. Did they perhaps choose to make it clear that you can drive vans around nursing homes, but that you lose a lot of them because you can't use them all properly? When you've worked that out, you can show it here and we can say you don't want to. Now there is often the idea that there is an assumption that something is not going to work and that therefore the choice is made not to work out or explore it further. Then I notice that the Chamber has all kinds of questions when it is confronted with them and the answer is that it does not make sense to want to know. I hope that it will help us to have a more real understanding of this and not just ask us to do this or that or to do something earlier. Then it means that we know who will be next, how much cannot be used effectively and how much extra vaccines will cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u404	I agree with you. With that you would explain what the dilemmas are, and those dilemmas are of course endless. Take the dilemma of the past week in acute care. That was not so difficult in the sense that there was a question of whether there would be a right to serve the acute care or not, or that it would be necessary to do so. What made it difficult for me to do it was that I had to do a few things, knowing that the Health Council had said that we had actually reserved a little too much BioNTech/Pfizer for the employees in the long-term care. The switch we actually had to make was doing more towards the elderly. That was one. The second was that I had told the employees in the long-term care that they were at the front. If I'm gonna deviate from that, I'm gonna need an explanation. Is it gonna take them longer? Is it gonna start for them later? That was also a dilemma. In addition, there was the dilemma of loyalty to the strategy in the order of the groups. The protection of the most vulnerable people and the protection of the ring around them is something else than vaccinate other employees in the care because of the continuity of care. That is a legitimate argument, but still different from the choice initially made on the basis of the opinion of the Health Council. As a result, there is, of course, just a lobby. I think I should be Siberian to lobby, but I should also be susceptible and remain open to justified arguments. And if you know that acute care could actually have problems of continuity while an English mutation is coming towards us, then that is when you have to make that assessment. We have done this in such a way that we get a slightly longer lead time for the employees in long-term care, because there is no free choice there either. Fortunately, we do not have to start later with the employees in the long-term care. That's how we solved it. In short, these dilemmas play on the assembly line, every day, but often behind the scenes. What you're actually saying is that it might help, even in taking it into account, if you outline those dilemmas and scenarios. What if? If anything happens, you actually have two, three, four or five choices. These would be the advantages and disadvantages. Yeah, I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u405	My question follows on from Mr Dijkhoff's question and deals more specifically with AstraZeneca. I think that Mr Dijkhoff is right in saying that the great dilemmas, which can be read between the lines in this last letter, can help to clarify how big these dilemmas are. I'm glad the Minister's moving along with that. This way you can prepare people for what situation might come. The Minister indicated that we have a problem if AstraZeneca doesn't come and that we have to change the scenarios. In itself, I think it is wise to make it clear what the consequences are. My question in my term was about the other side. The letter says that this week the EEA is talking about AstraZeneca for the first time. It is also said that the first deliveries could be made in mid-February. At the same time, I heard the Prime Minister and now the Minister is expressing a great deal of doubt about the time of approval. Can the Minister shed some light on how quickly there is more clarity about that approval? Are we going to get large numbers in February or are we going to get small numbers? If they are very large numbers, then you get the question whether there is enough capacity to put those shots quickly, precisely because of the word "gamechanger" used by the minister in connection with AstraZeneca. What if the EEA is talking about this now, because the whole of Europe is at risk from the British virus? Can the EEA, in anticipation of the timetable, rather than the previous one, give estimates of expectations, so that all countries that are waiting for the game changer to do the same can prepare themselves for this in these different scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u406	I understand all Mr Heerma's questions. They're all actually just right. There is a limit to what I can say about this at the moment, because it is actually just under the EEA's assessment. Maybe I can just share what I know about that. Sharing what I know about that implies the following. Two clinical studies have been submitted, the first of which is that they do not actually provide sufficient answers to the question of effectiveness. That has to do with who was and who was not included in the investigation. There's a third study in the United States. The third study does not yet have sufficient results to be taken into account in the assessment. The assessment is currently being carried out as part of a rolling review, i.e. bringing forward and simultaneously with the investigation itself increasing the assessment to accelerate the whole process, while normally doing so in order. The rolling review takes place on the basis of the data as currently available. In the UK, an emergency procedure has been chosen. The European Member States say: rather not an emergency procedure if it is not necessary, so just a normal, provisional authorisation of the EEA, as was the case with the previous vaccine of BioNTech/Pfizer. An application for such provisional authorisation shall be submitted first. That application has not yet been submitted, as there are still a lot of questions about the dates that lie within the framework of the rolling review at EEA. This means that we are currently awaiting an overview of EEA: how do we see this assessment process for us, what additional data do we need from Astra and can Astra provide it? As soon as I know more about this, of course, I always share it with you. At the moment I do not know more than that there is a rolling review. We hope that it will soon lead to an official application for admission, but whether it will actually be possible in the very near future must really prove in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u407	However, as a result of the conversation referred to in the letter, in the first week of January, there could be more insights into the expected timetable from EEA. That's one. Two. If it is expected that it will take a very long time, the Minister says the net itself, the countries of the European Union do not prefer to do an emergency procedure, as England has done. But the situation may arise that the British variant will be in many European countries in the next few weeks, let us hope that it will not happen, but that it will also accelerate in the Netherlands. And then these kinds of scenarios come around the corner. I understand that the Minister says he can't say more now than he knows, but can he then give more insight into the scenarios that might arise in the next letter? This is actually in line with Mr Dijkhoff's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u408	What you are hinting at is that you could then come to the choice of saying at that point: should we not also, like the UK, go for an emergency procedure? I hesitate to do so, but that could be a choice at the time when EEA would indicate that there is insufficient clinical data available that could give rise to a provisional market authorisation. Therefore, EEA cannot grant a provisional market authorisation. Then another variant is to opt for an emergency procedure. I'm not there yet, but that could be a possibility. I'd like to outline that in another letter. But I hope that the normal course can be followed, that is to say, a provisional market authorisation. Because that really is a better scenario than an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u409	I am going to make a small correction, though the second part of the Minister's reply came more close to what I meant. The Minister himself indicated that it did not prefer the European countries. So that means that it could play in certain situations. Then you're talking about scenarios. So my question is not whether the Minister can say whether he thinks it is a good idea to do an emergency procedure. Because then you come back into the discussion that the Chamber doesn't think until the decision has been taken: hey, what happened and has this been considered for longer? Mr Dijkhoff's question in general was: can we not give a better understanding of the different scenarios, even if no choice has yet been made, so that the Chamber can see at the front that there has been thought about them? That applies specifically to me, because my first term was very much about AstraZeneca. The minister now uses the word "gamechanger." When you see the millions, it's very important to get a lot of people vaccinated quickly. In particular, it concerns the various scenarios, which, as far as I am concerned, consider whether there could be an emergency procedure. But that is just an example for me. I would like the next letter to address those different scenarios or timelines. How much are we gonna expect? Are there many, are there few? How is it handled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u410	I ask the House to understand that there is a limit to it, because there are so many incredibly many variables, which can give rise to so many scenarios. That is with the Dijkhoff clause, namely to work out the scenarios that are most obvious and logical, with the dilemmas that fit them. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u411	A brief question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u412	When will the infrastructure be ready to administer AstraZeneca?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u413	Depends on which administration you mean. I think you're referring to the G.D.D. Well, that depends on the moment it comes. If it takes a while, they'll set up separate streets for that. If we have to do it in the very short term, it will be in the locations that we now have. I assume they'll be ready by then, too. That is also the question we have asked. We have put the puzzle in more detail, so the strategy is now defined. This means that the GGD will also have to be ready when AstraZeneca is delivered, in order to be able to administer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u414	That's not an answer to my question. The fact that the GGD will have to be ready has not so far proved, because the order was given too late. We have learned from that now, the Minister says. When is the order given to rig that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u415	I would ask Mr Klaver for some understanding. What you are seeing now is the result of about 24 hours of working a day in the past few days. This is the result of the administrative discussions I have had on this subject. The result is this record, with these time indications. The administrative partners have said about this, whether it is the GGD, the general practitioners or the inpatient ggz, who is also served with AstraZeneca: yes, this is what we are going to do, this is what we stand for. This is then worked out in exact timelines and so on. That's what's gonna happen in the next few weeks. This is the result of the state of mind and the agreements we have made with the administrative partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u416	Here's what I want to know. We say that we learned from the last time that the assignment was given too late. The Minister holds himself responsible, so I address him, not the partners with whom agreements are made. When's that gonna be okay? We know that at some point, hopefully in the first quarter, we should start large-scale vaccination, hopefully as soon as possible. You can prepare for that. How many locations would that take? Where are we gonna set it up? How many people are we gonna hire for that? I'd like to know right now how many locations and how many people we're talking about. When will that be ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u417	This is the subject of the elaboration of the coming weeks, because the administrative arrangements to make these choices, i.e. to transfer BioNTech/Pfizer to Astra, to serve the inpatient ggz clients with Astra, to serve the care workers in the ggz with Astra and to serve the 18- to 60-year-olds with the general practitioners, when the Astra delivery arrives. That is the subject of administrative agreements made following the choices we have had to make on the basis of the steps we have taken in the last week. This will therefore be worked out in the coming weeks. We'll report that to the Chamber as soon as it's ready. It's all work in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u418	I am very concerned about this answer. This is exactly the answer we received in the autumn, when everyone asked about the vaccination strategy. We don't know a lot of things, like when a vaccine like that comes. It's interesting to be asked, but for that we depend on science, on the researchers, and when it is, it's there. But we can prepare ourselves. I want the Minister, within two weeks, to have an overview of what is actually needed. What storage devices are needed? What kind of temperature does it need to be cooled at? Is that enough? Are the general practitioners indeed able to do this? Is that all exercised? Should there be larger locations from the GGD? Then my appeal to the Minister to set it up. Make sure you have a backup, that there are multiple large-scale locations to vaccinate. Maybe that's not necessary, but I'd rather we have them than we don't have them. I do not think it is acceptable that this is not properly prepared, so I want to hear what needs to be done in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u419	I will, of course, inform the Chamber periodically at all, so this includes the further development of the choices we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u420	More specifically, because we really get about a general answer to every specific question. I'd like to know, with the numbers in here and the amounts of vaccines we could administer, how many people we need to be able to vaccinate. How many more locations would it take? What storage devices are needed? I'd like to hear a date when that's ready. That should not be when these vaccines come to the Netherlands. That should be ready before the vaccines arrive, so that we can start immediately when they arrive. I want to hear a schedule from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u421	I have already indicated to Mr Klaver that I will, of course, inform the Chamber. I ask you to understand the following. We've had appointments made in the last week. That doesn't immediately come from all the planning that comes to mind. That makes sense to me. We're gonna work that out in the next week. That is the subject of further elaboration. As soon as we know more about this, I will inform the Chamber. But I'm not gonna put every performance detail on the fence at the Chamber. There's no point. That means there really is a cube of paper going to the Chamber every day. There's no point. In this political debate, it should be about the political-administrative choices you have to make, not about every implementation planning that is made at each individual GGD location. There's no point in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u422	If the Minister doesn't remember, we always get this kind of reproach, which is that it's technique, implementation details, and that all these things aren't sent to the Chamber. I'm not asking for that at all. No one's actually asking for that. What I want to know is when the execution is ready for the AstraZeneca vaccine. That could be the biggest game changer. I want to know how many locations and how many people we're gonna need extra. Those are the main points. Those are big administrative choices. If the Minister asks for understanding of the complex field of influence with all the administrative partners, I would ask the Minister for this Chamber, who may not have much confidence in it, given the track record of the past few months, that the next batch of vaccines that are to come are going well. So I want the room to be on top of it. That's why I'm asking him to give me a deadline. I'd like to hear a date for that. I said two weeks from now. Then I want to know when this is ready. And when he says he can't, I'd like to hear another date from him. But I want to know when the infrastructure to be able to inoculate is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u423	And I'll inform you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u424	When?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u425	We're gonna work that out now. I will continue to inform you about this further development.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u426	I'm not asking about the effect. I'm asking about the deadline. I get that whole effect... those are the details the minister was talking about, which he doesn't want to share with the Chamber. I'm asking very simply... we've got a nice flowchart. It says when we're gonna start. When is it the ambition, is it the goal, to have the organization in order? That's an end date. How it will be filled out and all the implementation problems that come into play: that is up to the Minister. What's the deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u427	I will inform you about this, and I have now answered three times. That remains my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u428	Finally. This is strange to me, to be honest. I understand you don't know all the details yet. I understand you don't have a complete schedule yet. I'm not asking for that either. But that you didn't set a deadline, not even to all those partners, where you say "listen, it's all nice and nice, but at this point in time the preparations have to be completed," I don't understand. Because the lesson has been: we should have ordered the GGDs to be ready earlier. So the lesson you learned about what went wrong in December is not being put into practice right now. That worries me. I would therefore ask the Minister to answer this question in the second term: what date should the preparations be completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u429	I would like to ask Mr Klaver to understand that this is precisely an issue for the future, with the administrative partners, and that I do not anticipate that effect. That would be really weird. It would be really weird if I said, "We're gonna make this deal with each other. For this you stand at the bar." And then I say, "We're gonna work out with you over the next week when it has to be done, how many locations etc..." It would be really weird if I had to call Stunning Pede in the Chamber a date when she was ready... that's a really weird way of working. So I'm gonna work that out with them. I'm going to inform you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u430	You already have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u431	In that order, Chairman. I think that's the best order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u432	Mr. Klaver. No, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u433	You have to be kind, Mr. Chairman. We have just talked extensively with each other and with the Minister about the nursing homes and the people who are intramural there, and about when they can get their shot. But most elderly people in the Netherlands do not live in nursing homes, but at home. I'm already getting this and I don't think I'm the only one who's got a lot of legitimate and understandable messages from older people. They say: "Very good to start with those nursing homes, for that was the intention, but what about us? We are older, we are over 60 or 70, and we often also have morbidity, a disease, a condition." I would therefore like to reiterate my support for this in the previous debates; the Minister knows this in order to start earlier with the elderly living at home. In the motions I have formulated it as 70-plussers with morbidity. You indicated in your letter that you intend to meet me by starting in March. March? You'll only be 80, you'll be home and you'll have a disease. It's hard enough to get home care and then you'll hear that it can't happen until March. Could you not do your best, let me put it carefully for those people to start vaccination already in January, and if that does not work at the beginning of February, but at least before March? Then I'm not even talking about which vaccine to use. Can the date for these people be brought forward? So not only for the people from the nursing homes, but also for the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u434	That has everything to do with each other. I agree with Mr Wilders. I understand that everyone is still trying to find a timeline and schedules for what seems to be a kind of calendar for when we can start, but I can't give that calendar. This is the best, most realistic assessment of what is already creepy of what we can do to our best knowledge. The most important thing about that whole plate is what is above it, namely that we are totally dependent on the approval, operation, delivery and distribution of the vaccines. We're totally dependent on that. Let me give you an example. If Moderna's vaccine were to be approved this week, if Moderna then comes up with a delivery schedule for delivery in the short term and if we are able to make some of the Pfizer deliveries that we get delivered over the next few weeks available to the nursing homes, we can use part of the Moderna vaccine, which was actually intended for the nursing homes, at home. That's the switch we're making. That was one example. A second example: if Astra gets through, I don't know when that's gonna be.Of course, we're gonna inject Astra with the GGDs, for the employees who already have time slots there. That means you can use Pfizer for the mobile elderly at home. That could be a switch, too. Mr Wilders does not call it a switch, but he still wants us to get to work with the elderly living at home a little bit earlier. I think it's my job to try that. I want to try everything. I want to do this. I want to do it. I want to do it. That's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u435	Of course, that's good news. As Members of Parliament, of course, we are not the only ones to analyse the information you send to the Chamber. There are a lot of people who...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u436	That's the creepy thing about this schematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u437	Yeah, that's creepy, but it's something to hold us to. At the bottom, at Q1, at the first quarter, there's a total of 8.4 million vaccines that you get. If I add the numbers of the groups together, I'm far from 8,4 million. If you say "that's times two," it would be 4.2 million, but I'm not getting there yet. If you look at the numbers, it looks like you have enough space. Perhaps that does not apply entirely in time, because some come only in March, others in February. I understand. But the numbers are more than sufficient for the groups you mention. What I'm asking, and hopefully what you want to do, is to bring forward the groups that are most vulnerable. That's not just the inpatient group, but that's most of the elderly, the 70- and 80-year-olds who live at home, who are often alone and lonely and also sick, who are happy to have someone from home care or a child visit, because they live quite isolatedly. Moreover, that is also the group, especially over 60 and 70 years old, which provides the largest influx on the ic's and in the hospitals. Try to bring them forward in any way, because a lot of people think: they are talking about the nursing homes now, and that is right, but we are still here!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u438	I understand that very well. I therefore very much agree with the need. Actually, it doesn't really matter if the elderly live in a nursing home or live at home. Older people are more vulnerable as their age is older. That is why the Health Council also advises us to use the items that are mainly intended for this group, i.e. BioNTech/Pfizer but probably also Moderna, for this purpose. There is one point, one real obstacle: delivery. The delivery is really the biggest obstacle. We can easily remove all other obstacles. Well, easy; we can take it away. But the delivery is really the most important obstacle. If you see that schedule, you will see that it is 8.2 million. It's all vaccines you're gonna have to inject twice. That means vaccines for 4.1 million people. The groups don't add up to that, but imagine Astra not coming. If you look at what we have left in that first quarter: that is extremely small. In short, deliveries determine the speed. Not only in the Netherlands, but in all European countries. Deliveries determine the speed. Of all deliveries, we get 3.89%. That's how we agreed. Fortunately, we have additional options on Pfizer. That's a big help. Also $3.89 million. But deliveries set the pace. And for the rest of it, I'm just trying to get to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u439	Deliveries determine everything. I welcome that extra option on Pfizer, but the problem with Pfizer concerns the packaging and storage. Mrs Marijnissen already had a good suggestion. She talked about mobile freezers. The caregivers are now invited to the vaccine. That started yesterday. 24,000 people signed up yesterday. This isn't random, is it? You're gonna take stock of what people come by appointment in advance, aren't you? How many people are coming tomorrow? And then you can just go get so many doses in Oss. It's possible. So I don't really think that's a good argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u440	I'm not quite sure what you mean. I refer to the group of nursing home workers in small-scale housing. From my point of view, there are 269.000.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u441	Maybe Mrs. Sazias can explain exactly what she means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u442	What I mean is that we all want to go ahead and we as 50PLUS are sure that the older group of residents will be brought forward. One reason not to do so was because these small-scale structures did not work. But I don't understand why that wouldn't work. You do that in advance by appointment and you know in advance how many doses you need at which place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u443	Yes, but if you invite a particular group, so ask employers to invite their people to make an appointment, you should of course be able to make that start group by group. So then you have to open some time slots, or you'll have them call a call center that can only sell "no." Of course, that's not going well either. There are now 408.000 time slots open, two pricks per person for that first group in two times three weeks, because you need to spread it a little bit. That has to do with the deliveries as they come in, and that also has to do with the fact that you can't prick the whole department on the same day. Then the whole department has side effects on the same day, and it's not going well. So you need to spread it a little bit. That's how everything's plotted exactly in time. I can only get rid of that when I say: I'm going to open fewer appointments for that first group of nursing home workers. And I didn't want to choose that. It's really been a choice on the 24th at night. That's right. I didn't want to choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u444	I believe that the gap between the care workers and the elderly is too large. There's a couple of weeks in between. That shouldn't be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u445	So I'm trying to make that hole as small as I can. I have just explained to Mr Wilders how I do that. So I'm trying to make that hole as small as possible, because I actually want the nursing home residents and the staff in the nursing homes to be the first to start as one group. Well, except for a few weeks, you can. That depends very much on the delivery of Moderna. Of course, that depends. And it depends on the possibilities of delivering the nursing homes with Pfizer. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Kooten asks when the police, the boas and other professions will be vaccinated. I cannot, of course, tell every group that they should also be at the forefront. 'Cause if everyone's up front, you really haven't made a choice. That doesn't work that way, of course. We really need to realise that we are going to hear every day in the next few weeks arguments from different professions that they should be at the forefront. But I can only go into that if a suggestion is made about it and a good one is not a good one. As long as this is not done, I can only prioritise in accordance with the strategy we have agreed. How is it that the Minister has the pressure of doctors and... I have actually already responded to that. I don't need that pressure. In fact, I have to be siberian for lobbying, and so am I. I must, however, remain prone to a justified plea that is also in line with the vaccination strategy. Then I turn to the questions about the indirect vaccination obligation, the direct vaccination obligation associated with it and the registration. Then I guess I'm through my block of vaccination. Then I can answer a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u446	That wasn't a block. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u447	I think that the Minister is very quickly ignoring the other aid workers, such as the police and the boas. They are often the first to be reported on the spot. They need to resuscitate and have close contact with the people for whom they are summoned. I have heard from those groups, also on the radio this morning, that we are saying that we are completely lacking in the vaccination strategy. That is very strange, because it is, of course, a very vital profession that our aid workers exercise. Without them, we wouldn't be anywhere. The Minister agrees with me, I hope. It is quite understandable that the Minister says 'we have to make choices', but why has not the choice been made to include these aid workers in the vaccination programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u448	Then you also have to make the choice "who doesn't." Let's get back to the strategy. The Health Council actually gave us three. The first strategy is: vaccination of the most vulnerable people and the people who take care of them. That is the strategy we have chosen. This strategy is being adopted across Europe. In line with this, the choice has been made to add the employees in the acute care. That hasn't actually been a sidestep.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u449	But I think Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen knows that advice. So the question has to be concrete...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u450	She asks: why not...? Then you should say: we had the strategy to vaccinate the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them, but we're not going to, because we're doing the boas. I think it is very wise to think about every apple from the society of this profession: but who is not? That's the first thing. Secondly, people should not derive the added value that the sector has from the place they have in the vaccination strategy. Of course, we consider all the professions you mention to be extremely important. It is a very crucial process, absolutely. I don't want to take anything away from that. The point is that the vaccination strategy is aimed at preventing mortality and disease caused by covid. Vaccinating boas doesn't have that much to add. That's why. Unless you choose a different strategy and say: I'm not really very concerned about preventing disease and mortality from covid. But I don't think you do either. I don't think anyone will. As long as we agree that preventing illness and mortality by covid is the most important ratio, it is indeed not logical to choose boas, police, or others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u451	Finally, because I don't think you're gonna get together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u452	No, I'm afraid that's the case, too. I would like to know very clearly what the communication with these unions is like. I hear the presidents of these unions express concern that they were not included in the vaccination strategy. There's nothing in the letter of inquiry, and we don't really know anything. How'd that communication go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u453	Not through me. I didn't talk to the police unions about the vaccination strategy. I don't think that's such a logical choice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u454	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u455	But it's really weird that they don't communicate about that, isn't it? It's a vital profession. They are the first to be called, and when they report, they have to resuscitate and are in very close contact with people. Then it's really weird, isn't it, when they're on the front line in reports that they're not communicating about this? There's no communication on more things, but this is crazy, isn't it? Can the Minister promise that it will be better communicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u456	There is a lot of talk with police unions and with the boa-bonds and so on. But that's just the conversation Mr.Grapperhaus has with the unions. Your question here is: is it logical to agree the vaccination strategy with them? Well, that doesn't make any sense, because that vaccination strategy is aimed at preventing death and disease by covid. Well, then it doesn't make any sense. By the way, I have no lack of partners with whom I have to sit at the table in order to be able to take a step around vaccination. I think I've got plenty to talk to you about. So I'm not shy about another club to coordinate the vaccination strategy either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u457	Good. Then I'm going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u458	I understand the Minister's saying, "If you want to prioritize, you have to tell me who to go after." So I get that answer, I say in advance. But I asked if the homeless could be taken with the ggz clients. The point is, they're gonna be invested somewhere and they're gonna get a place. I don't know if that answer has been given yet. At least I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u459	I'll come back to that in second term, or the question should be in my set. I think they're part of that group, but I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u460	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u461	Then there's a vaccination obligation. There was a debate and I really do not have that much to add, so I am not going to do that either. A vaccination obligation, the cabinet doesn't choose that. Mr Van Haga has asked questions about this and Mr Azarkan has asked questions about it. Then there was an interrupting debate between Mr Azarkan and Mr Segers, who thinks it is very important to be very precise in what we do and what we do not ask for. There have been two referrals, to the Ethics and Health Council Law Committee. The first question is about testing. That's where you'll come across that corona passport. That has to do with just the ideas that are there. By the way, in the context of preparing you for a decision you may be going to make: the IT is already being developed for that, although we haven't made a decision yet. It could indeed be a very interesting addition at a time when we are about to have a test policy which we very much want to use on access tests. We have that policy, and we are taking steps in that direction. Then it should be possible at some point that you can show on your phone: I have been tested with this test in the last 48 hours, 72 hours, et cetera. But none of that is what this is about. The application we are talking about here is the application that focuses on vaccination and that application says: "Vaccination raises new ethical dilemmas and discussion. Government policy aims to ensure that as many people as possible are vaccinated. There is no compulsory vaccination, coercion. The government also does not want to benefit people who are vaccinated against people who are not vaccinated." That is the framework, just the first paragraph, and so the whole application continues. What is the decision-making framework? What dilemmas and questions are there? To what extent does the government have a role, a responsibility and a duty to prevent, so to prevent, private parties demanding that customers, employees, pupils be vaccinated and what legal possibilities does the government have in this regard? In short, the whole application is aimed precisely at doing what it is not to outline that obligation and not to give rise to indirect obligations because private parties make all kinds of choices. There's no mention of that passport here at all. That's not about vaccinations at all. That has to do with testing. So it's really a whole different story. Vaccination is already a very difficult social debate. It is precisely when we know that the vaccination rate also depends on the confidence that people have in vaccination and that a vaccination obligation gives rise to very serious fear of vaccination, that this actually raises resistance, resistance that undermines the willingness to vaccination, that we must be very precise about what is and what is not asked, including from the government. I am also going to ask Mr Azarkan to be exactly in that, because otherwise it undermines the preparation of vaccination and undermines the willingness to vaccination leads to the undermining of the vaccination rate and that can simply lead to health damage. In short, being very precise, being very secure, about what we are and what we are not going to do. We're not going to do a vaccination obligation. Not a bit, either. We're just not gonna do it. What we want to think about is: what if part of society has been vaccinated and some of it hasn't? Mr Dijkhoff rightly said that this simply leads to questions. What measures should you and should you not maintain at any time? That is a fair question and we shall be faced with it. All countries will stand for that. We will answer that question properly after we have consulted on it. Then registration, Mr. Chairman. A question has been asked by D66: aren't any issues with registration going to delay? The short answer to that question is no. There is also a very long answer to that question, but I will leave that alone. 50PLUS has asked why hepatitis B and not covid can be registered. In fact, hepatitis B is a different kind of registration than here for covid. This is a decentralised registration with the company doctor. As regards hepatitis B vaccination, the employer is obliged to offer it to employees who are exposed to risks, i.e. to offer them only. The possibility for employers towards their people is to offer vaccination. There is no legal basis under which the employer may also register the vaccination. The company doctor must have this information, but should not share it with the employer because it concerns medical data. However, the employer must keep a record of exposure, but that is another type of registration of that hepatitis B. Then I think I have also dealt with the registration questions, Mr President. Then there are a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u462	Including Mrs. Sazias'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u463	Yeah, I think so. I actually thought so myself, but that can be considered differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u464	Okay, good. Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u465	I don't have it all sharp, but I think there are consequences in hospitals that you haven't been vaccinated against hepatitis B. I'm not so much concerned with the form of registration as with making sure the patients are safe. That happens soon with hepatitis B, but it should also be with corona and with corona vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u466	I think that we need to make a difference between the company doctor, who is indeed aware of this and who is also registering it. That's medical information. And on the other hand, there's the employer. I think we should make a distinction. In addition, there is a difference between the registration of exposure and the registration of "I have been vaccinated against..." But I want to be very precise about this towards Mrs Sazias, so perhaps it is a good thing, Mr President, that I write it out very precisely for you. I don't have to sit here and freestyle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u467	Yes, Mrs. Sazias?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u468	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u469	Fine. Mr Van Haga has another question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u470	Thank you. I'm assuming this was the end of the vaccination block. There's one more question I'm asking you about. At what degree of vaccination can we eventually stop the corona measures? It is, of course, very attractive for everyone to be vaccinated now, because then we can get rid of these miserable measures. But is there a certain percentage of group immunity where the minister thinks: well, can we stop with all these measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u471	This is exactly one of the questions I asked in a joint opinion of the OMT and the Health Council. It is my conviction that we are also getting more sharper in different steps. First of all, when are we gonna be ready? When is the vaccination rate sufficient to build up group immunity? It is generally assumed that this is about 70%. But imagine that we are dealing with the British mutation, which would have a higher independent reproduction factor, or which would have an upward effect on the R. That also means that you must have built up a higher degree of immunity in society in order to actually be protected. In short, it is also a question that is not answered at once. The other question, which Mr Jetten also asked, is of course the most important one. We are actually looking for a model approach: at which degree of vaccination can you release what part of the measures? This also has to do with the order of vaccination, with the rate of vaccination, with the effectiveness of vaccines that you used first. That is a very complex question to be able to answer, but we did ask it to the Health Council and the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u472	It is a bit of a mystery to me or with that group immunity the people who have just had corona are also counted. The vaccination rate is the vaccination rate, but group immunity is determined by both the people who have had it and the people who have been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u473	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u474	So I understand that the question is open. But again, can you guarantee that if that vaccination rate is at a certain level, we can stop the mouth caps, the 1.5 meters, the lockdown?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u475	So the link that you have to make between the type of vaccination with which vaccines are in which target groups and the measures, on the one hand, is the model approach that we are asking for. So we have just asked the OMT and the Health Council this question because it is so incredibly complicated to answer it. May I add one more sentence after all? Imagine if we vaccinated the people most vulnerable to that virus and the people taking care of them first, and you would have had that vaccination. I really think you could let go of some of the measures. That is not to say that other people cannot become ill, but it is to say that you have protected that part of society that can become the most ill of the virus. So you have to think about that in those steps, too. The total abandonment of measures is going to take some time, because we really are not sufficiently protected with each other for the time being. But perhaps we can let go of some of the measures already. And the most beckoning perspective we have for the coming year is that it will naturally arise somewhere in the course of the year. And I hope that doesn't happen just as soon as everyone is vaccinated, but also before. You can then possibly let go of some of the measures. But it's just not possible to tell when that moment will be right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u476	That is interesting, because that means that if that group immunity among the vulnerable and below, say "critical staff" is high enough, we could already scale down measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u477	I think that you might be able to let go of some of the measures, the most restrictive part. But that again depends very much on the extent to which at that time, for example, mutations do the rounds that have a very rapid spread. So everything is connected with everything and I cannot give an easy and quick answer to this. This is precisely why we are looking for some sort of model approach. I think that is what Mr Jetten was looking for. In the next six months, you want to be able to make a bit of an assessment of each other when we can do something again. That's what I'm looking for, of course. When would you be able to do something again? When would what be justified again? My impression is that the way you vaccinate, so the vaccination strategy, is very decisive for that. That's one thing. The second is the set of measures to keep that virus under control. That's a second. And the third is a smart strategy to use tests in a certain way, so that you can, for example, make access possible again. Hence the field labs and the approach. Along those three lines, we want to get back to things we can't do now as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u478	Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u479	Finally. I'm a little worried about this. We already have thousands of mutations spread across different tribes. So it may well be, I understand from your words, that we are vaccination now, but that we need to maintain all these measures and start vaccinating every time for new mutations, just like you give the flu shot every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u480	What I understand from the scientific advice is that that doesn't seem likely. On the contrary, it is more likely that a large proportion of these mutations are susceptible to the vaccine that is produced against them. All I'm saying is that if you have a mutation that accelerates the spread and could lead to more sick and infectious people, then that will change the answer to the question of what vaccination rate you should have achieved in order to be able to release measures. In short, these things are connected. They can't be separated from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u481	Good. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u482	I appreciate the effort, of course, but now I don't understand exactly what the difference is between the flu shot and a corona vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u483	Flu's another virus. That behaves very differently, mutates much faster and also makes it very difficult to actually make vaccines applicable. A cocktail of vaccines is often made. Every year a new vaccine, a new cocktail, is made to ensure that you can vaccinate against flu. The corona vaccine has shown that the mutations that have occurred so far are all caught by the vaccines that are now being developed. There is, of course, a lot to be said about, but that seems to be the case at the moment. So the virus behaves differently than a flu virus. That's one. The vaccine also behaves differently from the virus to the flu. So that's taken on its own, given all the disturbing messages, a reassuring message.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u484	Let's hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u485	Are you gonna finish up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u486	Yes. The Caribbean Netherlands was still requested. We'll do that as soon as we can. This seems to us to be the fastest way forward. They will be ready sooner than the Netherlands. In the Netherlands a little earlier is being started, but they will be ready sooner than the Netherlands. That's one thing for sure. Mr Segers asked about access to vaccines. Know that we are doing everything we can to provide countries that are poorer than the Netherlands. Through all international structures, the Netherlands is at the forefront of this and the European Union is also at the forefront of it, by helping these countries as the largest global donor of COVAX. We'll do everything we can to protect them, because we won't be protected until we're all protected. So we have made room for this from the very beginning, including in the contracts we have concluded as a European Union. Mr. Chairman. Then I think it is wise, hoping and counting that I have at least answered the most important questions about vaccination, to move on to a number of other questions. That's a modest folder. I'll go through it quickly, Mr. Chairman. A number of things have already been said about the British mutation. Of course, we are very well informed. There's still a lot of unknowns. Much is already known, especially from the reports from England. Partly there is already more known in the Netherlands. What is known about it has been stated in the OMT opinion that you have already had. We also know that the OMT has carried out a number of additional studies, namely to see the extent to which this British variant already exists in the Netherlands and to see whether there is also a faster spread in children, or children play a different and a major role in the distribution. What we're getting from England about the British mutant is that that faster spread is very likely. You can look at it in a lot of different ways, but epidemiologically it seems to be fairly well shown that there is a faster spread. That can never be completely separated, of course, from the set of measures you take at any given time. That is why the extent to which it is not quite clear yet, but that there is a faster spread seems very likely, our people at the OMT, who also have a lot of contact with their English colleagues, of course. The exact role children can play in distribution is not yet sufficiently known. It is the subject of research, among other things at that school in Bergschenhoek. To learn from this, a fairly large study is being carried out on the children who are infected, their teachers and the families around them. The OMT hopes to obtain the results in the course of this week. The OMT will include them in the opinion it will design for us on Friday. So we can include that advice from next Friday in our decision-making next Tuesday. We are on top of it, because, of course, we are rather concerned about its impact. The strategy will undoubtedly have to be to slow down the spread of the English mutant at least as much as possible in the Netherlands, because that is on Dutch soil, is one thing that is certain. In fact, this seems to be the case in all European countries. Then there's the new road map. The efforts made by me and the department in recent weeks have focused on everything related to vaccination. That means that we will come up with that roadmap a little later. We will not need them again until we can take other measures from the lockdown situation in which we are now. Sometime in the second half of January I hope to be able to share it with your Chamber. I believe I promised it in the first half of January. That'll be the second half, but we'll make a redesign. The question was asked as to whether it would be possible to include the test readiness and the vaccination rate. Especially D66 asked for that. That's not easy yet, but there has to be a link between that in the end. That goes in the way I have just discussed with Mr Van Haga, namely by letting us advise on how to look at it modelly with vaccination rates on the one hand and on the other hand the set of measures on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u487	I wonder if you answered the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u488	I'll take a look. Is there sufficient test capacity for testing children under 12? The answer is yes. Then a number of questions have been asked about travelling. For the sake of clarity, I could refer to the legislative proposal that will be dealt with this week. If it is right, it will be dealt with this week, because it will be done in the shortest possible time. We are therefore taking a number of steps. This concerns the appeal, the adaptation of the scheme and the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u489	If it's okay, the bill will be coming to Chamber tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u490	Tomorrow? Ah, good. Is it coming to the room tomorrow? That depends on the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u491	Sorry, Thursday. I know. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u492	I have not yet been informed that it would actually work today, but that will come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u493	You're done. Okay. Mr Dijkhoff and Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u494	I had a question which is actually even more important from the Minister's answer that it is very likely that the British variant will take better care of children, just to say it unscientifically. Does this therefore have an impact on the opinion or policy on the vaccination of children under 18 or the provision of a vaccine to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u495	A number of things are involved. One is that at present none of the vaccines are actually authorised for children. Pfizer is allowed for 16. This has to do with the question of which clinical data can be consulted with EEA. The clinical trials in the third phase trials did not include children. That's not as common as starting a new vaccine, I understand. This is apart from the fact that Pfizer is not given to children because there is also a reason to give it to the elderly. But right now, no vaccine is allowed for children under 18. It will take some time for that to happen, but you are quite right, of course, to say that if there is an assumption that children or young people still play a major role in the spread, then it may also be useful and added value to want to vaccinate them as well from the moment you have a vaccine that is allowed for children or for young people. I did indeed ask that question to the Health Council and the OMT. I asked if there is any reason to believe that there is any added value in the short term to vaccinate children. Then, of course, the question arises when we have a vaccine that appears to be sufficient for children and that has also been adequately tested in children. When are you gonna be able to give it to me? So it's actually two steps: is it logical to do, and if so, when will that vaccine become available to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u496	I get that, but if that first step is that it makes sense to do that, then we should call on one or more developers of those vaccines to start the whole clinical trial and guarantee with those younger age groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u497	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u498	I'd still like to talk about the flies. Although I understand that the law is coming soon, but that we are still waiting for the Council of State, I am curious. We have lifted that flight ban again with the idea that we could get to that negative test result very quickly and then get on a plane, but we know that this is not the case at the moment. Then I think it is quite a risk that flying is actually being allowed again at the moment. There can also be dozens of flights from London, for example, coming this way. Why don't we just go back to that flight ban until we get that negative test result after all? There are also risks involved, but I would like to ask that question again in the case of any legal treatment that is to come. We're taking a risk now that, especially with the mutations that are there now, maybe we shouldn't want to take at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u499	Of course, we opted very quickly for a flight ban after we had been advised by the RIVM. I think we did that on the same night, on 19 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u500	Saturday night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u501	Yeah, Saturday night, yeah. Then we were on the phone with Jaap van Dissel. We then imposed a flight ban on the same evening as the first one in Europe, and I would like to stress this in this debate. After that, the rest of Europe was followed. Then we said: that is the most drastic way; can it also be a little more graceful? It can be more graceful through the negative test statement. Then how are you gonna fix it? The most practical way is through designation with an emergency regulation. If that is legally vulnerable, we do not think so, and that is why, for the sake of certainty, we are going to amend the scheme. We have said that we are going to do so, and we have informed you of this. If that is still legally vulnerable, then for the sake of certainty we are going to amend the law once more to make that possible. In short, that is a kind of triple lock to do what we want, namely to keep the virus out. Now opting for a flight ban would have no added value compared to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u502	Why don't we hold a flight ban until we don't even rule out the risk in my opinion? If you take a test 72 hours before you board a plane, you still have 72 hours at risk. All the way with a mutating virus, I still think that's a risk we're taking. I am still very curious about that declaration of necessity. I think there's an investigation into that. I am curious to see what is going on with this; that was also one of my questions in my first term. If you opt for a flight ban with that necessity statement, the risk will be reduced. I wonder why we don't opt for such a flight ban with that declaration of necessity. Then we reduce the risks as much as possible instead of still not making that negative test result mandatory. And even if it is mandatory, there are still risks involved. So I'd like to know that consideration, because I don't understand why we're taking that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u503	Because we... look, the goal is to keep people carrying that virus out. That's what we can achieve with that negative PCR statement. We then set up that negative PCR statement with a clue. That's what a lawsuit has been about, with a verdict in a briefcase. We're going to appeal. That's one thing. Secondly, in order to give this legal form even more solid form, we are also adapting the regulation under the temporary law. In order to give this even more solid form, we are going to do the legislative amendment once more. In short, with this we have a legally sound construction to keep the virus out of the door via that negative test statement. All this is more proportionate than a flight ban, because a flight ban means that those who need to travel must not be able to enter. You could make that possible with the negative PCR. Then you'll have the necessary travels, but not the virus in the suitcase. That is exactly what we want to achieve. You must always want to be proportionate in the measures you take. When, in the short term, we had no other option than to impose a flight ban, that was, in that context, the most proportionate thing we could do. But now that we can legally shape it in a different way, we are doing it in a different way. That's the proportionality weighting you always have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u504	However, I do not keep getting it, because the Minister of IenW says in a letter on 16 December that there is an investigation into a declaration of necessity. My question is still open when this investigation will come and when we will know more about it. I don't know why we don't choose a flight ban with a declaration of necessity, so you really reduce the risk very much, rather than the way we still allow people 72 hours to get infected. You certainly hope not, but there is still a risk of that; in my opinion, we can only see that in fact. So I'll stay curious. You choose that one variant, but I'd like to know why we're not choosing that flight ban with that declaration of necessity. Isn't the investigation working? The results aren't there yet? Then what's the issue there? What's going on out there? Isn't the investigation working? The results aren't there yet? Where's the issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u505	To be honest, I must remain guilty of that answer. I think it's okay to ask those questions during the legal process. What we are doing is actually choosing the most proportional form, legally speaking, of what we want to achieve, in terms of content. That's why there's this legal construction we chose. A flight ban, where you could actually just demand a negative PCR, is currently disproportionate. This is also seen in other European countries. It would also give rise to... Then a lot of people can no longer fly at all, not even the necessary flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u506	Mrs. Van Esch?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u507	Finally, because I am sure this will come back to the debate that is coming. Through this Minister, I would like to put the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u508	I think that's a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u509	That seems to me to be an essential part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u510	Exactly. That is what you need to have in the debate on the legislative proposal in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u511	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u512	Thank you. Then we'll take two minutes for the switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u513	I'll give the Minister for Medical Care the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u514	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have received a number of questions from your Chamber on a number of subjects. I'd like to consider the pressure on care first. Then I come to the scaling-up of intensive care, questions in the field of the labour market, code black and a number of questions in the field of zoonoses. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the pressure on the care, because it is indeed huge. The numbers remain very high. This means a great deal to the people who work in care, but also to the people who are sick, people who are sick by covid or by other causes. They're all seriously ill people, so for the heaviness of care it makes it even more intense. On 22 December I had to report, and that was hard for me, that LNAZ had to take additional measures; I supported them as well. That was about scaling down class 4 and class 5 in care, the planned non-acute care. There was also help from Germany and the scaling up of ic capacity to 1,450 beds. The purpose of this is that we can bridge this very difficult period until we're past the peak. We expected and hope that this will be the case by 7 January. But the situation actually became even more worrying and the figures remained high. Last week, this led to the call on the hospitals to subordinate their individual interests to the collective interest. The national direction was thus further strengthened. With this we get the maximum out of the total national capacity. This is really about national coordination for the public interest. These are the national agreements to cope with the pressure on the care that Mr Van der Staaij asked for. In the direction of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, I would like to say that this is the central direction. We have also looked at what we can do for the people who can leave the hospital, but cannot yet, because they cannot yet be taken elsewhere. With the involvement of many volunteers, for example from the Red Cross and other voluntary organisations, for example, I have also been in contact with the NPT and the people of Defence are working on this with man and power. Finally. In order to prevent more people from falling into care due to absenteeism, which means that we leave fewer people to bed for covid care, we also want to give people in direct covid care in hospitals access to the vaccine as soon as possible. Mr Van der Staaij asks about the voluntary nature of the distribution. I am referring to the temporary policy framework that we set out in October and on which I informed the Chamber. In doing so, we want to guarantee acute care as much as possible. We've established that with the parties in the care. The idea is that you have a level playing field for patients, care providers and healthcare providers. In this context, these national complementary measures have been taken, so that we can at least guarantee people that they have equal access to care throughout the Netherlands. There is also the measure that the National Coordination Centre for Patients Spread is given a more direct role in the distribution of covid patients across the country. That center always works a week ahead. Then it determines the capacity to be kept free for the covid care. The hospitals can prepare for that. So this perseverance has been in place since 23 October and is monitored by the supervisors, the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the NZa, because we do want care to stay safe and sound. Mrs. Sazias is asking for support from the Defense Department. Although we can and can expect the whole of the Defense Department, I am very grateful to them for the fact that they do not have an unlimited number of nurses and nurses available. So we use the people of Defense when everything has been put in place to tackle the shortage of employees regionally or if additional aid can be arranged via Extra hands for care or via the Red Cross. And then, via the link of the Director of Public Health and the chairman of the ROAZ, there is a demand for Defence. This is intended in particular for those partners in the region in the vvt sector. The hospitals, of course, also have the problems I have informed your Chamber about, but they use the national patient distribution via the LCPS. With this we try to divide people across the Netherlands. The use of Defence personnel for hospital care is concentrated in the UMC Utrecht. There are about 160 people involved. But there are nursing homes where additional efforts by the Defense Department are currently taking place, given the high pressure there. Defence also helps institutions that offer corona capacity outside the hospital in order to relieve the burden on hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u515	Mr Wilders and then Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u516	There we are again with the Minister of Medical Care. She almost promised us that she would do anything to prevent the care from being scaled down again. Because she was so sorry and she had so much understanding and feeling for the people who would have surgery, the cancer patients and the people with heart problems. And now it's happening again. Now we're back. And now they're being sent home again or they're being told that they're not welcome or that their surgery is being postponed. You weren't there all year 2020, but during every debate you had here, we talked about that. And it's happening again! What have you done in the meantime, from your arrival until now, to prevent... Let me put it positively. What have you done to ensure that we have sufficient staff? 'Cause that's the bottleneck. This is not about the number of beds or the number of ic-spots. We have too few of them, but that is not the problem now. The care staff is again the problem. What have you done to prevent us from being in this situation when it comes to the care staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u517	I agree with Mr Wilders that the situation is very serious. I have always said at this place what the stakes are, but unfortunately I cannot give any guarantees, especially when you look at the development of this pandemic. In the first wave, everything was dropped out of their hands, and that has really limited the provision of care to acute care. We said we don't want that anymore. The commitment has shown itself in two ways last summer. First of all, that's scaling up the care. Then you talk about both the scaling-up of intensive care and the scaling-up of nursing beds, including staff. In addition, we have support from Extra Hands for Care. We have also learned a lot from what did not go well in the first wave. And the second is that we agreed with each other: we don't want to do this anymore, so we need to pull our hands together to limit as much as possible that care is randomly scaled down. And no matter how bad the scaling down that is taking place now, it's horrible, but it's at least controlled and motivated from a medical point of view. There is reason: what can be done with the least damage? But there's damage. Care is currently being scaled down. That is a concern which must be delivered within six weeks, but which is at the end of those six weeks. Because of the high contagion rates, the high hospital admissions and the high ic-recordings, we're actually putting that regular care forward as a kind of mortgage. During this period we try to bridge the peak so that there is air again. That's what it's all about. Is that what I wanted? Yes, but the situation of this pandemic is unfortunately not directed. In addition, there are also some conditions, such as the training of ic nurses. It'll take about 18 months. We've had this pandemic since March, but that's not 18 months, so we do what we can with man and power. There's a tremendous amount of work in the care sector. And yes, I would have preferred it different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u518	You're just gonna be a cancer patient or something about your heart or your kidneys. My mailbox is full of people's messages that their operation has been postponed. And then you hear the minister say that we're checking and that we have a mortgage, but that doesn't help those people. Those people just want them to be helped. And don't come to me with your "18 months last 18 months" stories. I spoke to the Prime Minister in my first term, and he didn't have the courtesy to respond to it, but perhaps you're being polite. I referred to an article published in NRC two and a half years ago. At that time, Diederik Gommers was still unknown, but it was either the cancer patient or the liver patient. Even then, departments were closed in almost all academic hospitals in the Netherlands. Then he had to choose whether he was treating the cancer patient or the liver patient and the other one wasn't. Ic's and operating rooms closed because there was a shortage of personnel. Why hasn't your party, which has ruled for ten years, made sure this was in order? This is not only a problem of the corona crisis, this is a problem of the health-care crisis that the VVD has poured out on the Netherlands. Why didn't you do something about it? You knew by then. You should have prevented it now, by investing extra money in care staff then, two, three, four years ago. Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u519	I very much recognise the concerns about the situation in care at the moment, but we are talking about a situation in a pandemic here. You can't translate it one-on-one into what the situation in care is like. Normally, in our agreements in the care, how we organized our care, there is a lot of control with the professionals, with the people who provide the care. This means, for example, that we have a different system for ic-beds than in Germany. This means that we are making some Ice Beds operational as needed. This is motivated by medical professionalism. It's different in a pandemic. But I can assure Mr Wilders that whatever healthcare system you have, entirely government-driven or purely private-minded, no healthcare system can cope with a pandemic that takes so long. That means we have to do two things right now. One: add all sails and hope and ask and facilitate everyone to contribute a bit. And yes, learning lessons. In the debates I had with Mr Wilders, proposals have been made on, for example, healthcare reserves or additional people and less bureaucracy. I embraced them heartily, because they are essential. But in the situation of the pandemic, we cannot say that we should have done things differently since March, because we have done things differently since March, which in any case means that we have to continue with the care that has to be delivered within a week or within six weeks. For that reason, let us all take care of the following. I make that call all the time, and here too. If corona is not the reason to stick to the measures, then I stand beside Mr Wilders to say: all those people whose cancer screening cannot continue, or their appointment in the hospital or their operation, let us stand next to those people to keep us to those measures too, because we need that air.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u520	Madam President, not a single word was an answer to my question. I hope you will also keep a close eye on whether I can get an answer to my question. I didn't hear one word. They're all platitudes from standing next to the people. Stop it. People don't want you standing next to them. They want care. They want to go to the hospital for their cancer surgery or with their kidneys or with their heart problems can go to the specialist. You shouldn't stand next to them. You need to get them to care, you're hired for that. I will ask my question again, for the fourth time. Again, the Prime Minister also refused to go into it. It's about that article about Diederik Gommers in NRC two and a half years ago, about cancer or liver patient, so it's not a problem with the pandemic alone. Of course, the pandemic made it worse, but two and a half years ago there were already ic's... Then it was the same Diederik Gommers who said: "We have a problem with the care staff. I have to choose between patients now. I need to close operating rooms. Most academic hospitals do, because I don't have the people." And your party was already in power. In the two and a half years since then, nothing has changed. People with surgery are being sent away again. My question to you is: why didn't you do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u521	I know very well that I have just tried to give that answer, but I will try to give it more clearly from my own point of view, the problem of the shortage of people. I'm afraid that's not new. That was also an important motivation for this cabinet in the arrangements it has made for the care. Even in normal years, who knows what that was? It happened that ok's had to close in the flu season, for example, because there was a high absenteeism. Unfortunately, the fact that OKs have to close is not reserved for a time of pandemic. I agree directly with Mr Wilders that we need to look at what we can improve. But I do not have the illusion that we can solve the shortage of people here and now. That's a long-term issue. And so, in the short term, we will have to look at people who can support, for example people who have worked in healthcare. We'll see if people who work in health care want to do more. We hope everyone wants to do the same. We also need to learn lessons before then. But it's chess on two plates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u522	Do you know what it is, Madam Secretary? It's pure carelessness of the VVD. Greedy. Maybe there aren't always cuts everywhere, but they've just been given just enough, so they can get just enough air in the organization. It is the carelessness of the VVD that ensures that you have far from solved those problems with the staff. It is the carelessness of the VVD that has not carried out an adopted Wilders motion that asked for additional and substantially higher salary for care staff. It is the carelessness of the VVD that ensures that hospitals, which you have asked to invest extra in intensive care units, now have to go to court to get compensation for something they have done in the corona crisis at your request. It's a hell of a shame, isn't it? It is three times in a row the carelessness of the VVD that destroys our country and our care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u523	Those are conclusions I don't share. If I just look, on a completely different plane, separately from what is happening now, apart from the pandemic, at the development of what we can organize in care with each other...Look at how we deal with new medicines and with the professionalism of the people in the houses, whether they are nursing homes or hospitals. I do not share that conclusion. I am also sorry, because I am also trying to reach agreement with Mr Wilders on his commitment in these debates. I share that bet. Mr President, I will, with your permission, look into the court cases, because that will require a little more explanation. I would like to say this later...Other Members of Parliament have also asked for it, so Mr Wilders still has an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u524	I would like to return to the Gelderland Valley, the hospital in Gelderland, which urgently asks for help from the Minister and asks for extra effort from the Defence Department, but does not receive it. The minister explains how the system works, but that's not the point. Why isn't that hospital getting help?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u525	The need in hospitals is very high. I understand very well that they are ringing the bell. However, I must lay down the rules of the game that we have agreed with each other here. In nursing care and home care it has been agreed that one looks regionally and that one then comes through the Red Cross, for example, to extra hands of Defence. In curative care, we agreed that patients should be spread among themselves above regional level. That's not funny. If you take care of a patient who has to go, it's a loss. Hospitals don't want that. Whatever houses like to do is to keep some extra beds. That makes sense. That is not a reproach, but that is caution. We have said of this: given the state of care and the state of contamination, we ask the hospitals to subordinate their individual responsibility, their individual interest, to the national interest. That means that we can deploy the little air that's left at national level through the national center of patient distribution. That is why we have asked hospitals in the Euregio, in Gelderland and in Flevoland to spread patients. That's a different way of working than using Defense, but this has been agreed for curative care. That has been agreed in the region. Is that easy? No. Is that an emergency hold? Yes. It's national direction. We'll facilitate it, too. I've asked Ernst Kuipers of the National Coordination Centre Patients Spread to take control here. The need in curative care we try to alleviate in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u526	The word "frugality" has fallen a number of times today. In this story I find absolutely no maneuverability. The Minister himself says that I fully agree with her that we prefer not to have patients moving, because that has a lot of impact. But as a hospital that can keep patients in the house by the help of a few extra hands, the minister refers to the system and says she can't. I also asked in my contribution: how do you intend to help this hospital? You're not gonna tell me they have to go into the relocation system, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u527	You know my adage: the system is there for the people and not the other way around. We have looked at how it works and how we can keep it workable in hospital care: how can we ensure that those who are helped are not random for patients, caregivers and healthcare providers? Given my party's background, you might not expect it so much from me, but we have said that all individual organisations should switch, that we need national direction and that there is now a collective interest. The individual importance of a hospital must now be subordinated to that. That hurts, but it's necessary. Because that is the only way we can ensure that people in the west, east and north of the country have the same access to care. That takes a bit of individual hospitals. I think it is brave of them to be willing, while they are already working so hard, to participate in these agreements. That's not easy. Those talks took place in the region. I hope we can get back to it as soon as possible, but it is unfortunately necessary at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u528	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u529	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. I don't think this is so agile. With a little extra help, people could have just stayed in that hospital. Maybe you'll come up with a reflection on my question as to whether the fire department might be able to offer some additional assistance here in support functions. And I am also very curious about the Minister's explanation of the reimbursement of Ice beds in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u530	I will come to that last point in a moment, but I will come to that other point. I don't have the luxury of having taboos anymore. I sat down with the supervisors and with the National Coordination Centre Patients Spreading/The National Network Acute Care to see what else can be done. What else can we do if the peak is that high in the hospitals? What else can we do? For example, we have looked at the possibility of having self-employed treatment centres in the regions supplying people to hospitals or letting them take over patients from hospitals. That's a good thing, but since many treatments are now being scaled down in hospitals, that's less than you might hope for, regardless of the use of people, because there's a lot of commitment. The second is that we looked at what I just called "the air in the system": where are any beds available? Maybe it's just one bed for one hospital, but all things considered, you might still come up to 50 to 100 beds, which we really need. The third is the outflow. There are people in the hospitals who don't have to be there anymore, but they don't have a place elsewhere. We are looking with the Red Cross, the NPV and other organisations. I can imagine that firefighters are part of this; I thought it was a very good example of what we can do in support of, for example, nursing or nursing staff, and I realise that this is a profession and that these people cannot be replaced by people who volunteer to do so, however valuable it is. In addition, there is also the deployment of Defense. Defence works centrally in the country with the emergency hospital in Utrecht. This concentration is an added value for care, perhaps not for an individual hospital. I've also reported the hospitals: it may feel suboptimal from your organization, but we're appealing to you because of national interest. Because you can't close a dike break on your own either. Then you should be shoulder to shoulder, too. So even though it may feel a little suboptimal, let it last as short as possible but we just need everyone. And all those little bits of beds together, hopefully makes us go down the edge of the ravine and not over the edge. And that's the stake we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u531	Then I'm going to see Mr Van Haga. Mrs. Sazias, you were just about to sit down, weren't you? Okay, then you'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u532	However, I would like to continue with Mr Wilders's interruption just now. It is, of course, about the capacity in hospitals and about the capacity of the ic-beds. In recent years, we have cut them in half by all kinds of cuts. Now the Minister says: we can do two things; we have to make every effort and we have to learn lessons. Yes, thank you the cuckoo! I think those lessons should have been learned ten months ago. And in ten months, you can stomp a whole coronah hospital out of the ground. But that's not what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u533	Then what are you asking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u534	That's what I'm gonna tell you now. Thank you for helping me, Mr. Chairman. I like that very much. A corona ship is being offered. Now I'm no expert in corona ships, but I've been told that 500 Ic beds are offered with staff. That's what they get from all kinds of countries. Was that investigated and why was that rejected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u535	On the first point, perhaps the following. What we do in the Netherlands with the intensive care, is that the number of beds is ready, with the staff involved, that is necessary. Normally, it's around 900 beds. You're not gonna put ICU beds without people in there. So that the capacity in the Netherlands is normally around 900 without a pandemic, is historically determined. That is designed as the healthcare professionals themselves think they can do best. We have now agreed that the 1,150 beds that should actually be there will be filled first and that we will continue to scale. It's been discussed this summer. That was a very clear lesson from the first wave: to 1,350 beds and then to 1,700 beds. That's on paper. In practice, there are now 1,450. So at the moment there are actually 1,450 beds designed with staff in the hospitals. That has nothing to do with budget cuts, but it has to do with how you organise the care and how the professionals want to do it themselves. At the moment, the situation is precarious, but normally it is organised in this way. Then there is Mr Van Haga's question. It's kind of interesting. I did a little digging, too. With some regularity we get offers, from the interior or from abroad, where people, often also entrepreneurs, make suggestions for help for the care. I really think it's important that we always take a good look at that. I also particularly appreciate people trying to contribute from their involvement. We do this together with the GGD, with the care regions but also with doctors. We will check whether the Dutch standards are met and whether it is also applicable in the Dutch situation. If it works out positively, we'll go through with it. And if you don't, we'll call it in. And that's what happened in this case. This offer has not been used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u536	I'm a little surprised. First of all, because apparently it's historically established that we only have 900 beds. In 2015 we had 2,200 beds. I know that Mr Gommers said: well, then all these people are doing nothing. But we are now in a situation called a pandemic. So it seems to me that you'd rather spend your money on an excess capacity on ic-beds right now, so the rest can just live happily again. So I guess a ship or a hospital isn't an unnecessary luxury right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u537	In this particular case it was an entrepreneur who came along and said: I have a ship with facilities and Cuban care staff. Well, that's definitely worth looking at. But you will also find yourself in all kinds of discussions about, for example, the BIG requirements, about powers that need to be established in a recognition procedure. Because we also have certain standards when it comes to people in the Netherlands who provide care. We have said in this case that it does not meet the requirements for Dutch territory. So a reaction has been given to this entrepreneur that no use is made of it, but it is very nice that this person was so involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u538	Finally. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u539	Finally. It was therefore carefully examined whether the staff were adequate, whether the rooms were adequate and whether it could indeed be deployed. A careful consideration has been made and then it has been decided: it cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u540	I gotta tell you, I didn't dig that deep. I heard Mr Van Haga call a coronac cruise ship. Then I thought, "I'm gonna have to dive in there." This is what I can reconnect right now. Perhaps just a little bit more about the 2,200 beds that Mr Van Haga is talking about: there are, for example, the children's beds and the first aid and so on. Of course, they still come up with the numbers I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u541	Now, let's get this over with. Apparently, the Minister doesn't know what that trade-off has been. Is it possible for us to have that balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u542	I will try to get back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u543	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u544	Hospitals are closed under the direction of Mrs. Van Ark's VVD. First aid stations are closed under the direction of Mrs Van Ark's VVD. Under the leadership of Mrs Van Ark's VVD, 77 000 caregivers lost their jobs in the previous cabinet period. Of course, we're in a pandemic of unprecedented magnitude now, but what did we have those hospitals, what did we have those emergency rooms and what could we have done with all those caregivers? I think this should and should be said. All those caregivers who are now facing this gigantic task are in the cold. This is because the VVD has made sure that those hospitals have disappeared, that those first aid posts have disappeared and above all that so many colleagues have disappeared in the care. My specific question is now the following. We've been here many times with this minister. In the meantime, we can see that the care staff is struggling and walking on his gums. Unfortunately, the end is not yet in sight. It's gonna be a while. What exactly is the Minister doing for those care workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u545	We have, of course, had a lot of discussion in this Chamber about what is historically the development of how we deal with care, including in the financial sense. I won't do that all over again. This has also often been exchanged in the debate with the Prime Minister. I'm not gonna do that again right now. I realize that a building also has a lot of value and that it means for people that there is an emergency service in their congregation or in its vicinity. What this really is about, of course, and that's just well organized in the Netherlands is that the care you need is close. For the care you need specialization for, we all need to be prepared to drive a little further. With the 116 hospital locations in the Netherlands, the 80 emergency services with 24/7 availability and the 84 hospital locations with intensive care, I am really convinced that we in the Netherlands can deliver that care well. I want to have said that, too. That's where people work with heart and soul. We share this view, but care in the Netherlands must also remain geographically in order. I do not want to repeat this discussion, just as I do not want to repeat the debate on how we are shaping the financial valuation. I can do it, Mr President, but I would nevertheless like to refer to previous discussions on this subject. What we do in healthcare is this. We are making room in the budget for discussion on working conditions. We note that there have been good developments in the collective agreements, the agreements between the social partners, in recent years. We were able to give a bonus. I would have liked to inform Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen that some 2 billion was spent on 1.1 million healthcare professionals in 2020. That is different from what Mrs Marijnissen wants, namely a structural reward. Maybe it's something else than a lot of other people would like to, but at least it's what we could do now. We invest the forward-looking agreements with the ESC. I would also like to mention the discussions we have here about control and, above all, the unspeakable thanks that people are back there day and night. For the sake of clarity, I should like to limit it to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u546	Yes. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u547	The Minister's thanks are, of course, wonderful. I think we all do, and we can't do that often enough, but what does that really mean for those caregivers? Of course, that was the same with the applause. In the end, you can't pay your rent. Maybe even more importantly, we need a lot of extra care providers. We can't wait another day to recruit extra colleagues into care. It was before the corona crisis. I referred just now to the previous cabinet, which, under the leadership of the VVD, made sure that 77,000 people lost a huge amount of care jobs. We would all have needed it now. And this cabinet doesn't offer anything. Well, we're so grateful. Well, thank you. That's what you can do when you work in health care. I'm sorry about that, because this comes back every time. Then the Minister can say: we have talked about it many times. Yeah, that's right. But that's also because nothing changes, because nothing happens, because it stays with a round of applause and now a thank you from the Minister. If you see that the situation is that people who need care who simply can't get, that there are too few caregivers to provide good care that was already so before the corona crisis and the corona crisis has of course only underlined that, you would expect the cabinet to take everything out of the closet right now to solve that. Then, for example, a decent appreciation is a relatively simple step, I think. I would like to ask the Minister about the Extra Hands for Care initiative. We hear and read that people who have applied say that there is no contact with them at all and that they are stuck in all kinds of bureaucracy. Of course, it's not gonna work that way. So once again I ask the Minister what she is doing in concrete terms to help those caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u548	However, just a moment about the question of the pay in the care, the financial appreciation for the care. The collective agreements in the care sector are very diverse. The functions that exist in the care are also very diverse. The problem we have discussed several times here in this Chamber is that we all say that you can certainly have a big discussion about the lower pay scales in certain positions. That is precisely why we asked the ESC how we should deal with this. It is also the case that the social partners can make agreements with the money made available from the state budget. They can also use this money in a targeted way, if everyone agrees that the lowest pay scales in particular should also be valued more financially. So these are a number of very specific points. Moreover, the cabinet is not at the table where the social partners make these agreements, but we are making a contribution and it has really gone into billions in recent years. I think it's a good thing we can do this. This situation is different from that of the salaries of the police and teachers. But let me try to build a bridge to Mrs Marijnissen, because we have had this discussion many times. Maybe we can get closer when the ESC comes up with a result. She also asked another question, about support of for example Extra hands for care and about the mental support to which she regularly refers. I think I can give you some more positive news about that. In any case, we have about twenty recruiters standing by for organisations in need when it comes to extra hands for care. We have also looked very closely at the lessons of the Terrstra Committee of the first wave: where did the matching go wrong? We have employed about 100 people from Extra Hands for the care and about 500 people a response from the healthcare institution is expected. The Red Cross also makes a fantastic contribution. I was at the hospital in Capelle aan den IJssel the other day and there I also spoke with volunteers from the Red Cross. It is truly phenomenal what they can do. In addition, we also have the grant scheme for corona lanes from 1 February, where people from other sectors can enter care. We've reserved about 80 million for that, so we can create about 5,000 to 10,000 corona lanes between February 1st and summer. These are a number of very concrete points where at least we have been able to show some initiatives on the side of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u549	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u550	If the Minister does not go beyond a thank you, a committee that is going to study on what is needed and a number of initiatives, it simply doesn't help the caregivers. It's no use to a committee that's gonna study what it takes. We have known for a long time that the salaries of the people in the workplace must certainly be raised in the workplace. And the bitter reality is that everyone here knows that this year there is less room for wage increases than last year. So instead of more space, there's less space available, and with that, caregivers have nothing to do with this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u551	There is indeed quite a lot going on in the economy, which means that there is "less more" to be forgiven. But it's "less than that," so there's still room. And yes, there is still a lot to be done in the context of pension developments. But there's still room. I think we should cherish that, and I am glad that this year too has succeeded. I would also like to say to Mrs Marijnissen that it is difficult to get together on this point, but at least let us try to find each other on these other issues. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stick with the financials for a while. Mr Van der Staaij asked: is there sufficient financial support for hospitals to take care of this corona care? In this context, I would like to point out that the health insurance companies and hospitals have made arrangements to ensure the continuity of care. They do that for the situation now, but also for the future. These agreements allow hospitals to participate in this country-wide joint approach without causing them to face significant financial risks. Because hospitals have to do, among other things, with the national distribution of patients and with the scaling down of some forms of regular care. And the consequences are different for one institution than for the other. So we have to take that well. The government now says to organizations that are normally paid for their results: drop what you do from your hands and participate in that dike breakthrough and in that national interest. If we ask them to do so, we must also offer them the financial comfort that they will not suffer in the long term. Specific agreement has been reached on the 2021 agreements between health insurers and hospitals, on the 2021 contract. How do we deal with the financial consequences of COVID-19? This follows the commitments made earlier before 2020 to offset the impact of the Corona approach on the financial position of hospitals. This creates an appropriate remuneration for lost income and for additional costs due to the corona outbreak. And there will also be agreements on how to deal with catching-up care. What else do we do from the Ministry? If there are specific institutions that, despite all this, are in trouble, they will first talk to insurers. But I am very willing to engage in dialogue with interested parties when it is necessary. Mr. Chairman. Finance also plays a role in the questions I have been asked in the context of intensive care, and specifically in the case that has been referred to today in the media. In any case, let me give a brief introduction to indicate what this is about. But perhaps I should say in advance: this is not about beds, physical beds, concrete beds with people on them, but this is about the financial-technical cuts how you do it in the subsidy scheme. I will come to that in a moment, but perhaps I should first take your concern away: this is not about physical beds, but this is about how you put it in the system and what your fee is for it. As has already been said, we make a major appeal to ic-care and we have the scaling-up plans. These are plans we have made together with the National Network of Acute Care, together with the ROAZ regions. It's a three-phase scaling-up. First, maximum use must be made of the 1,150 beds already present in Dutch hospitals prior to the corana crisis. So phase one is 1,150 beds. Then there was an extension with 200 extra ic-beds, up to 1,350. They are structurally available as long as the pandemic lasts. On top of that there is an extension with 350 flexible ic-beds. They can be manned by scaling down other cares. In addition to the ic's, it also involves additional expansion of a total of about 1,100 clinical beds. This really requires a lot of hospitals, because beds need to be manned, and that's the big problem. We have also just talked about the availability of people in healthcare. I've always informed the Chamber in the corona letters about the funding of the beds. I have also indicated that hospitals should be reimbursed for the costs incurred; that is clear to me as well. They will be reimbursed for these costs, whether by the health insurance companies, or by the Cabinet. The numbers I just mentioned are coming back now. Those 1,150 beds that already exist are financed by health insurance companies. Those are regular beds. We have made agreements on this with the Dutch Association of Hospitals, the NFU and the health insurance companies. Those agreements were made in the light of the contracting for 2021. For the scaling up, so the 550 extra ic-beds and the 1,100 extra nursing beds, VWS has made a subsidy scheme. That is a subsidy scheme of around EUR 450 million, just out of my mind. That's because the beds above 1,150 have a different cost structure. Sometimes you have to remodel an empty wing of your hospital and remodeling costs are normally not in the reimbursement of an ic-bed. You have to train people. So that cost building is different, higher. We've got the funding. All beds in the plan will be reimbursed. As far as I am concerned, it is a legal issue in which an arbitrator has to sit at some point. It is separate from the daily practice, where the beds are. The issue now before the courts by the hospitals concerns the allocation of ICI beds. Is it a health insurance bed or is it a VWS grant bed? A list was made in consultation with the industry organisations, with the ROAZ regions and the LNAZ. A number of hospitals disagree with this list and consider that their beds are covered by the subsidy scheme and not by the health insurance companies. It is their right to go to court on a decision taken by the government. But it's not about the execution of the ic scaling. It's about the price per bed. That has now been submitted by the hospitals to the judge. I'd like to await the verdict. I am sure to say to the Chamber that, as I have also mentioned this subsidy scheme in the corona letters, I shall also forward the outcome of the case to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u552	Very briefly, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u553	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. I think there's just an inconvenience at the Chamber about there being a lawsuit the moment we ask for the maximum of hospitals. That that should now go through the courts, while the question, if I understand correctly, is whether it's going to be paid by the health insurance companies or by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u554	I share that inconvenience, but sometimes you just have a legal dispute. But it is not the case that the scaling-up of care stands still pending the resolution of this legal dispute. But if the government, in this case the Ministry, says "the beds that you scale are not covered by the subsidy scheme, but you should have had it regular already," and the hospital does not agree, then of course they are free to go to court on that if necessary. Of course, we have had discussions about this, with the industry organisations involved. I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Klaver that this is not a fine picture to the outside. That is why I stress that it is not about physical beds, but about the system. It's under the judge, so I can't say much more about it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u555	Finally, Mr Klaver. Then we're really gonna look at a round, because you still have a few points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u556	A few things, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u557	Yes. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u558	It's also about the relationship with care. We're really asking for a superhuman achievement. Even before the summer, billions of people were constantly put into the economy without blinking their eyes, without the Chamber talking about it at all. This is about a few millions. I would really like to ask you to do everything in your power not to let the judge get in here and just solve this in all reasonableness, because this is so incredibly ugly. We really shouldn't do this and prevent it, not for the imaging, but just for the relationship...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u559	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u560	... from the Ministry, politics, with care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u561	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u562	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u563	This was some kind of statement from Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u564	Yeah, but I still want to respond. We live in a contract state. If people disagree with agreements, they must be able to settle a dispute. I very much agree with Mr Klaver, but I would also like to say...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u565	Good. That too is a statement. I'm going to see Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u566	Does it matter how much compensation hospitals get for those beds or the health insurance company pays or the cabinet pays?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u567	Yes, because if the cabinet pays, the fee is much higher. This has to do with the fact that, for example, a renovation can be carried out or staff trained. So that's where the dispute is. I do not want to comment on this, but there is indeed a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u568	Is it not true that because of the fact that the cabinet does bring renovations and that kind of thing, it can ultimately have an effect on the speed with which hospitals are willing to scale up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u569	Let me put it this way: the scaling up of the beds runs through the LCPS and the LNAZ. Then it's really about physical beds. This is a discussion in the administrative-legal part of the system, I'll say. I do not feel that it is damaging to the relationship, but I would like to be sure of that, also in relation to Mr Klaver's question. I don't have that image right now. Of course, it happens regularly that organisations that do business with each other simply have a dispute on one aspect. They're complex organizations. The simple fact didn't scare me so much myself, but if the Chamber appreciates that, I'd certainly like to check it out for her, but they just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u570	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u571	You will be pleased that I have already answered a number of questions during the interruptions. I have a few more questions on the labour market. Mr. Heerma made an apple that touched me. I share his concerns about the aggression in the care. You have to deal with absenteeism, of course, but it is mainly about what that does to people. I don't have any figures on the exact causes of absenteeism. So I cannot confirm that absenteeism is higher because of aggression, but I think we both know that there is a relationship. If, because of the circumstances, people can walk on or perhaps even on the tips of their heads, aggression does not help, to put it equally euphemistically. I do think it is really important for people to be properly taken care of. That is why I have agreed with the Minister of JenV to work together on aggression and violence against people with a public role. We do see that the step to report in healthcare is often still very large. Of course, you often have a relationship with your patients. That is an important point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u572	At the end of the answer, the Minister will answer exactly the question I wanted to ask. Indeed, agreements were made earlier this year in the context of aggression and violence against aid workers. Those are the One-Dual Rural Appointments, the ELA. It has also been agreed, for example, that there will be an increase in penalties. I am getting signals that there is less knowledge in the care of these agreements and that there is a lower willingness to report them. I believe that both matters should be discussed with the sector. They need to know that there is an approach to act more firmly and feel supported by it. This can, in turn, have an impact on the willingness to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u573	I think these are indeed important steps. The social partners also need to talk about this. I've talked to them about that once. In particular, awareness is something that we can continue to work on, as Mr Heerma says. I am happy to do that with the social partners, because I really think it is important to do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u574	I'm glad the Minister wants to pick this up. At what time could the Minister inform the Chamber of progress on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u575	That's a good question. I will come back to that in second place. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting on a very heavy subject. I've called it that before. I come to a very delicate subject, which I would like to mention, particularly in relation to the questions that have been asked. I'm talking about the Triage playbook, or code black, as it's also called. It's about what you do when there's no room left in intensive care, while the influx of patients doesn't stop. In any case, I really want to say that it is fortunately a theoretical question at the moment. I cannot stop emphasising this because I know that this is a subject that people are very concerned about. It's a theoretical question, but it's a question that needs to be answered. That question also comes from healthcare professionals themselves. This spring, when the patients were not yet distributed, the people in the hospitals in Brabant, for example, felt that they were really coming to terms with this. Let me also say that I have great respect for the people of the FMS and the KNMG, who have considered this question. I believe that all of our efforts are aimed at ensuring that we do not end up in this situation. But still... Suppose all ic's in the Netherlands are full and we cannot scale up further, that the ic's in Germany are also full and that the influx of seriously ill people who need ic-care does not stop. Then you can get to the stage where doctors have to make choices about who goes to the ICU and who doesn't. This is, of course, first and foremost on medical grounds. The fact is that staying in intensive care has a real impact on people and can also have consequences for the quality of life afterwards. It is therefore possible that age plays a role in this medical consideration, for example when it comes to the chance of recovery. As a cabinet, we do not interfere with that at all; it is really up to doctors to determine that. But in the situation of a code black, you're actually going one step further. This applies when you have two patients with exactly the same medical chances, who are equally ill and have the same chance of recovery, and you no longer have any medical consideration. So we are talking about a situation in which medical judgement is no longer possible. Then there are other arguments. I would like to emphasise this, because I have also seen the reactions to social media in which it is said: why does politics interfere with anything medical? I think this is a very important one, because for me the most important thing is that the people who face these questions should hopefully happen that never know that society and politics are behind them if they have to make choices that they have thought about beforehand. Following yesterday's letter, much has been asked why we should not leave this to the profession. I think that is a legitimate question. As far as I am concerned, it also outlines the dilemma that I myself have struggled with and struggled with. I am only very honest about what we have had many discussions about in the Chamber, but also in the Cabinet. But it has to be said: since it is a non-medical argument, there is an legitimacy for politics to express its opinion on it. Of course, this is not the first time that we have done so, because in the spring too, the Chamber drew attention to this with motions and debates. Then the Chamber said: age cannot determine access to care, can it? That is also the position of the cabinet. That also means that I communicated it that way yesterday. But I realize that you can also look at it differently, that you can also say: this is what the doctors have spoken about. That dilemma was also very close to the discussion I had with the FMS and the KNMG, but also with the representatives of the elderly unions. They are involved in the step added to the roadmap compared to the previous one, which involves working with age cohorts, using the "fair collections" system, as it is called. I really like how they did that. Mr. Chairman. Let me add: a characteristic of a dilemma is that you do make a choice at some point. It was up to me and the cabinet to do so, precisely to cover the people who are facing that most difficult choice. That's the most important thing. I have weighed the two aspects on hand, seen the statements made in the Chamber, held the discussion in the Cabinet, and thus the fact that age would then still determine access to care would weigh the most. Mr. Chairman. Before I finish on this point, I really want to say that I am extremely impressed by the commitment of the professionals, that I trust that, with everything we do, we do not have to use this script and that we have everything to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u576	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for taking such a long time to raise this point, because it is indeed a very difficult and serious dilemma and it deserves careful discussion. In the spring we had images of Italy with overcrowded hospitals where they had to make that very difficult choice on the ic's. Fortunately, it is a theoretical discussion here in the Netherlands, but in the spring it was indeed discussed in southern Europe. In the Netherlands there was also the fear that you could be refused access to care at some point on the basis of age, sec age. At that time, the Chamber and the Cabinet were quite understandable in saying: selection sec by age can never be the issue in the Netherlands. We have a tradition in this country where doctors with patients and family look very carefully at medical grounds, life chances and quality of life, and come to a judgment based on that conversation. The cabinet then asked doctors and specialists to draw up a protocol. That protocol has been approved by the inspection, and all kinds of interest and patient organisations have also been consulted on it. They all say that the protocol we have now made does justice to the concerns that live and to all the different age groups that exist. The Catholic League of Elders and the ANBO have also said today: please maintain that protocol because of the careful process we have gone through. In view of these reactions, is the Minister prepared to reconsider how it should deal with that protocol?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u577	I have indeed looked at history, at the development of the cabinet position, but also at the discussion in the Chamber. You know me as someone who likes to be clear, but I have just indicated that this is a real dilemma. What is really important to me when dealing with this issue is that I think above all that the caregivers who need to be in charge of this choice should know that they are supported by society. That is my motivation for this issue. The debate, including in the Chamber, at least as it has happened to me so far, was very focused on that age criterion. That is what I and the cabinet have been following our judgment on. So, yes, I'll just say to Mr Jetten that I'm kind of looking for a way in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u578	Maybe finally at this point. In view of the fact that there are a lot of medical considerations at first and that the good conversation between doctors, patients and family will always take place afterwards, and given the broad support for the protocol now drawn up, especially in society and with all the parties involved, I would say that this protocol does justice to the statement that sec by age selection cannot be considered and that we should also express confidence in doctors and specialists who have come to this protocol. It is indeed a consideration in a dilemma. I'm making a different assessment than the cabinet has done now. I will also express this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u579	That will then be a materialization of that social support, I would just like to say in the direction of Mr Jetten. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u580	I also recognise the inconvenience that is now being experienced, because I believe that everyone in the Chamber never wants anyone to be rejected simply on the grounds of age, but because on the other hand it is a very complicated choice or also the life-health gain, which can also play a role in how long a person is still alive, cannot be taken into account. Isn't that too easy to treat as "age discrimination"? Isn't it more ethical? I would like to ask the Minister whether it is not too easy to equate age discrimination with those age cohorts in the government's approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u581	I didn't want to use the word "age discrimination." We have looked at age as a criterion for access to care. It is indeed different in this playbook than in last spring's appointments, because age cohorts are now being worked on. There's still a lot to say about that. It was also said by the elderly unions that certain age cohorts are very broad. I therefore believe that this discussion will not end with this script. Just as there are many differences between lawyers, there are also many different approaches in medical ethics. So this is not an issue that can be cut with scissors; I say this in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. But the issue at stake is after all the medical considerations have ended. Of course age may be inherent to the medical decision, but that's before in the script. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the final questions. These are Mrs Van Esch's questions, which I started with last time. So I thought, "I'm gonna go round the circle with that now." I shall begin with the risk of zoonoses, which she asked for, and which we stopped at length last time, and which I said at the time and which I now state that I certainly take these risks seriously. Over the past period, we have focused our efforts on controlling the outbreak of mink farming. That worked. The ministers of VWS and LNV did send a letter on New Year's Eve. In parallel, a plan to learn lessons from the pandemic has been launched. You saw that plan on December 31st. Then it's really about setting up a broad expert group. I've seen how that group works, and that's what the letter says. He is chaired by someone from the human health angle, I say in the direction of Mrs Van Esch, so that indicates from what perspective that is being done. But the distribution in that expert group is wide. First of all, a risk analysis is being carried out. It is then necessary to consider what is happening in current practice and whether there is a need for tightening up or adjustments. We have now started the elaboration. The idea is to inform the Chamber before the summer about the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u582	Have all of Mrs Van Esch's questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u583	No, I got another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u584	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u585	The letter I promised her about the resistant fungi I'll admit before the end of the month. I will also go into the state of the European re-evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u586	The New Year's Eve letter literally states the sentence: in this letter we outline our plan of action. Then there's half an A4's next. That is the ambitious plan of action, on which the whole Chamber has adopted a motion and which you have indicated to proceed with? Even the VWS minister has indicated that he's going to do something thorough. But then it can't be that this is the whole plan of action? I just can't imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u587	No. I may be able to reassure Mrs Van Esch. What we write in a letter of inquiry is, of course, about the approach. For the second term, I can find out a little bit more about what the expert group like this looks like, but we did not send the plan of action to the Chamber. We've sent the information to the Chamber far from the plan of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u588	So the ambitious plan of action that is to come is the expert group that has already been announced, which we do not yet know who is going to be in it and which is probably not going to give us any information until June? I ask because that motion was passed in June. If I had gotten the answer "excuse me it takes longer, because we are fighting the crisis," I would have understood it somewhere, but it doesn't say that. It doesn't say "excuse me, it's coming later," but "this is the plan of action" and the expert group hasn't even been set up yet. That's what worries me. If you agree with me that we should prevent new outbreaks of zoonoses and not be in another crisis like this, then I think that the information we have now received is really too thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u589	Last time, I indicated to Mrs Van Esch that we have the practical consultations in the framework of zoonoses on a weekly basis. If there's a threat, that whole structure goes into effect. I must honestly say that I now think that I am suffering from a bit of professional deformation because I personally did not find it very strange that there is a year between the filing and the drafting of a motion, but I feel driven by Mrs Van Esch. At least for the second term, I'll find out exactly what the score is. Then I hope to be able to reassure her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u590	Thank you. Then I will go on for a moment about the letter that comes about the fungi and the azoles at the end of January. Thank you for that commitment. However, I would like to stress that there is already a lot of information about this. This fungus and its resistance were already warned in 2010. Okay, we're waiting until the end of January and it's hard for me to repeat the call for me to have that letter next week, but I really want to stress that there's already a lot of information about this. It's really a big risk for people on ICU. I hope that we can get on with this quickly in order to prevent deaths on the ic, because that is what the specific question is about. I'd rather start yesterday than tomorrow to prevent people from dying because of corona and this fungus. With that, I would rather start dealing with this yesterday than tomorrow and so prevent people with corona and this fungus from dying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u591	I simply cannot emphasise enough that the subject referred to by Mrs Van Esch is extremely relevant. I did a lot of that last time. It now indicates that due to a lack of assessment capacity it is not possible to remove a harmful fungus from the list. That is something I would like to take seriously at the end of January. I promise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u592	Thank you. I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u593	I was done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u594	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u595	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u596	Thank you, Madam President. Considering the time three motions. The first motion is a motion of censure. It is a pity that the minister concerned is absent for a moment, but he will undoubtedly be given it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses confidence in the Minister of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-853]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u597	Then the next motion. There he is, just in time. A motion on the elderly living at home. I insist that, apart from the people in the nursing homes, we should take into account those elderly people living at home, who, for many reasons, should also be eligible for a previous voluntary vaccination. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that home-living elderly with morbidity are most often hospitalized with COVID-19;]] [[calls on the government also to initiate voluntary vaccination in January of elderly people living at home with morbidity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-854]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u598	Finally, a somewhat broader motion on voluntary vaccination. I have looked at how many vulnerable there are; people who are at increased risk of severe corona. A letter from RIVM dated 18 September following the 77th OMT opinion. In it, RIVM says that there are over 3 million people in the Netherlands with an increased risk of severe corona. If you look at the vaccination strategy of the cabinet and if we add all the employees in the care, hospitals and nursing homes to that, then there are about 643,000 people we get to about 3.6 million people. Assuming they all need two shots, you need a small 8 million vaccines, and we have one, because we have 8.2 million in the first quarter. I insist that we should be able to help all vulnerable people plus these people. Hence the next motion and then I'm done. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 3 million people are at risk of a serious development of COOVID-19;]] [[Considering that 643,000 healthcare workers are at high risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 and that 8.2 million vaccines are available in the first quarter of 2021;]] [[calls on the Government to start the voluntary vaccination in the first quarter of 2021 and to complete it for the above groups because there are enough vaccines so that the pressure on hospitals and the sad situation in nursing homes and home care can be ended as soon as possible, the lockdown can be terminated, shops, restaurants and schools can be opened up again and young and old regain their freedom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-855]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u599	It's almost as beautiful as it gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u600	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u601	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, this minister and this cabinet no longer have any room to make any more mistakes. Because the cabinet was too late asking the GGDs, because the wrong horse has been wagered and the wrong strategy has been gambled, we are now the last to vaccinate in Europe. Nor can we be the first to vaccinate the most vulnerable group, namely the inhabitants of the nursing homes. That is what we strongly blame the cabinet for. Next week there will be another comprehensive letter on the vaccination strategy. We really want to see how the cabinet is going to fix this. For now, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Health Council has stated that most health benefits can be achieved if vulnerable elderly people are first vaccinated;]] [[Whereas residents of nursing homes can be vaccinated in our neighbouring countries at central locations or within the institution itself;]] [[Considering that the supposed logistical barriers to vaccinate the most vulnerable elderly themselves can apparently be overcome by decisive action by the government and the care organisations involved;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how most vulnerable elderly people can be vaccinated within and outside healthcare institutions as soon as possible, even if this requires a temporary additional logistical operation by public and healthcare organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-856]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u602	(NL) Mr President, I would like to repeat the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a significant shortage of staff in the care sector and this deficit is becoming increasingly acute during the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas a motion has been adopted in both the Second and First Chambers to improve the structural appreciation of caregivers;]] [[noting that to date the government has not carried out both motions;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently achieve better structural remuneration for healthcare professionals in order to make working in care more attractive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-857]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u603	Mr. Chairman. We will not support the motion of censure against Hugo de Jonge. Nor do I think it is fair that he should be held responsible for everything that is not going well. It's very important that things get better. I'd like to express that hope. I hope that the cabinet will live up to the words and learn from them, because I think we still have something to say. If you see what is happening in Britain at the moment, it is so terribly important that we all stick to the measures and b that we vaccinate as many people as possible as soon as possible. I also very much hope that the motion that Mrs Marijnissen has just tabled on my behalf will be able to obtain a majority and that the cabinet will do everything possible to vaccinate as many vulnerable people as possible. We also want to make sure that every step is now being taken that has been promised. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas careful, safe and responsible vaccination is of the utmost importance for the reduction of the coronavirus;]] [[Whereas the Government states that effective and rapid vaccination is dependent on:]] [[the suitability of vaccines for specific groups;]] [[the time of availability and the numbers in which they are delivered;]] [[the logistical characteristics such as delivery mode, size and so on;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber on a weekly basis of the state of play of the above-mentioned issues and possible bottlenecks that occur in the practice of vaccination at the different vaccination sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-858]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u604	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the cabinet once again not to wait to look at the schools where physical education is already being given, but to see how you can help schools to do that safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u605	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u606	Mr President, thank you. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. My group continues to have serious concerns about the vaccination strategy and its implementation. The debate we had on this with Minister De Jonge and also with the Prime Minister, I found at some points, when it came to the moment when we will soon be able to vaccinate the most vulnerable in the nursing homes, really disgusting. I really think more needs to be done. This is not only the responsibility of the US Secretary of State, but certainly also of the Prime Minister. I expect him to be aware of the details before the next debate so that we can have the debate with him. He's responsible for this, too, and he needs to pull this towards him. I also think that there should be a change in the organisation and that someone else should be appointed to be responsible for vaccination policy. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is the last country in the European Union to start vaccination;]] [[Whereas an effective vaccination policy is a critical part of the corona strategy;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint an independent government commissioner with the power of perseverance to be responsible for implementing vaccination policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-859]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u607	Finally, Mr President. The Prime Minister has already said something: the situation is incredibly worrying. We were all hoping to get out of the lockdown on January 19th. We had all hoped that the schools could open earlier. It is of the utmost importance that we continue with the testing policy now. It was mainly about vaccination now, but all kinds of tests have been announced with the testing. They really need to get through. It also needs to be scaled up. In the short term, we will need these tests, because even longer lockdowns cause enormous economic damage, but also huge social damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u608	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u609	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas doctors and ethicists have reached a very careful and well-considered field standard in recent months on the triage roadmap;]] [[Whereas it is the doctors and specialists in hospitals who are best placed in close coordination with the patient and his or her family to determine what should be done in the event of unexpected code black occurs;]] [[noting that this Directive has broad support from all field parties, including the Health Inspectorate, as well as patient associations and older people's associations;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider its position on the Triage Roadmap on the basis of non-medical considerations for ic inclusion in the COOVID-19 pandemic at the time of phase 3,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jetten, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Segers, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Van Esch, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-860]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u610	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for the comprehensive answer and the piece of self-reflection about what has not gone well in preparing for the vaccination strategy in recent weeks and months. The new planning will have to be improved in the coming weeks. This must now be achieved in practice. I have a number of additional questions. Is it true that Caribbean Netherlands can only start in February because the Netherlands itself is late in delivering the freezers? If so, can this be accelerated? During this debate, Austria, in addition to the United Kingdom, also imposed a flight ban on South Africa because of the concerns about the new variant there and the lack of clarity as to whether the vaccines are working properly against it. This week we're gonna deal with the emergency bill. I would ask the Cabinet to inform the Chamber before that time whether a negative test is sufficient within 72 hours of arrival, whether there should also be testing for other categories and whether we should not offer that people can still undergo a test upon arrival in the Netherlands, because they may have contracted the virus in the three days before travelling to the Netherlands. Finally, Mr President. Thank you for giving top priority to the reopening of schools and childcare as soon as possible. I look forward to the further development of these plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u611	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u612	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't bring any motions. I have one remaining question, which I did not ask in the first term. It's about mink. On New Year's Eve, the Minister wrote that the corona outbreaks in mink breeding in the Netherlands were discussed in various European meetings. We thank the Minister for that, but to our surprise it seems that the ministers of VWS and LNV have only advocated monitoring and killing those infected minks. We're wondering if that's true. If so, why did the Netherlands not call for a ban on fur-animal farming? First of all, that is what the Chamber has been asking for for years. Secondly, the cabinet has promised that this would happen. So we are wondering whether this is really the case: is there only a case for monitoring and killing infected minks? That would cause us concern, because that would mean that mink is still being kept in other countries in Europe and that the virus is still a major risk there. We want to ensure that this is not the case. Moreover, it has simply been stated that the cabinet would act on this, so we are very curious about the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u613	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u614	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a few motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of primary and secondary school pupils who had a learning retardation before the pandemic, learning retardation will increase during the current lockdown;]] [[Whereas the sharp increase in learning disadvantage among vulnerable pupils will have serious consequences;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with municipalities, to identify pupils with learning disadvantages and to examine how these vulnerable young people can continue to follow quality education (in small groups) on site in order to eliminate learning disadvantages and avoid any further learning disadvantages, taking into account the corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM recommends that caregivers wear a surgical mouth mask of type IIR when exposed to COVID-19 patients;]] [[noting that a surgical mouth mask type IIR does not adequately protect against COVID-19 aerosol contamination and that FFP2 masks protect against COVID-19 aerosol transmission;]] [[calls on the Government to make the wearing of an FFP2 mask by caregivers exposed to COVID-19 patients the standard in the care to reduce the risk of infection transmission via aerosols,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SARS-CoV-2 mutant is up to 70% more contagious and increases the reproductive number by approximately 0.4 to 0.5;]] [[Whereas part of the increase in infectiousness is due to aerosols;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise the aerogenic transmission character of SARS-CoV-2 and subsequently to adjust its policy accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-861]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-862]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-863]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u615	And finally, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the VWS Minister in the letter of 17 December 2020 on "Ethical Framework Extended Test Programme COVID-19' on the introduction of a corona passport;]] [[Whereas the absence of a corona passport may restrict access to public services, such as public transport or city hall, in its functioning in society;]] [[calls on the Government to allow access to public facilities for all regardless of vaccination or test status,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-864]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u616	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I will say that we will support Mr Wilders' motion of censure. We believe that the Minister has failed with the test policy, with the source and contact research, but also with the vaccination. That's the proverbial drop. That's precious time we're losing. And it's about people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u617	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u618	Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow we'll finally start with the care staff. We think that's very good. However, we want the vulnerable elderly to be vaccinated immediately afterwards. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Health Council has advised that the available vaccines should be used first for 60-plussers and people with vulnerable health because they can achieve the most health benefits;]] [[Whereas this also reduces the pressure on hospitals and the period of lockdown is as short as possible;]] [[Whereas in the current strategy, vaccination of the group from 18 to 60 years of age starts almost the same and lasts as long as the group of elderly people living at home from 60 to 75 years of age;]] [[calls on the Government to use those vaccines which are still to be approved and which prove to be equally suitable for the elderly as the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine, first for the group of people living at home from 60 to 75 years before starting vaccination of the group 18 to 60 years without medical indication,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-865]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u619	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. First of all, I would like to remind you of a motion adopted by the Chamber at the end of October, which asked for the most recent insights on social consequences to be taken into account when deciding on the extension of corona measures or the adoption of corona measures. Actually, that's what our little interrupting debate was about, I say to the Prime Minister. Thank you for the commitment to pay particular attention to this in the near future. The second point I would like to make is that I found those court cases on the financing of the ic-beds somewhat unsatisfactory. I can taste that wide in the Chamber. I was just chewing on it just to quote one of the Prime Minister's words. Then I thought: isn't it possible to get out of there with something like a quick mediation or something? Is it not unfortunate that all kinds of energy must be put into the explanation of small print on the part of both the hospital and VWS, when in fact it is a question of what is a fair remuneration for ic-beds and we are all keen to shape that scaling up as much as possible and put the energy into it? That is a question I would like to pass on in second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u620	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u621	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the rulers for their answer and for their self-reflection. That which has not gone well has been acknowledged. At the same time, we have also been talking about what we have to do. I have the full confidence that it will be worked on with soul and salvation. I wish them good luck with that. I mark the Prime Minister's commitment to the fair distribution of vaccines worldwide. The Minister for Development Cooperation will deal with this. At least this will be addressed in the next letter. We'll wait and see. I have signed a motion, signed by two liberal parties. It's about a medical-ethical issue, so that's pretty special. Then you can say: well, there is something going on with the Christian Union or with liberal parties. I don't know. But it is a very serious medical-ethical issue, namely: how do you deal with possible scarcity? I think the Minister for Medical Care has explained this very conscientiously. When she announced "I'm against age discrimination," my primary reaction was: of course, I'm against that, too. But when I got a little more informed about the road map and about the reflection that has taken place, about the care and support, including among older people's associations, I was convinced that it is a very credible and very good story. It's a very well-balanced story. I feel a great deal of reluctance to enter and enter the chamber as legislator. That is why I signed the motion again: on a medical-ethical dilemma of D66. Where does this end? Indeed, not in a party vision, I can announce. I've been talking about self-reflection. Maybe we in the Chamber should not be boastful at all or do a little bit of self-reflection. We are now working for more than ten hours, in the midst of a corona crisis that requires a great deal from these rulers, but also very much from officials working behind this. I think it is the challenge for all of us to confine ourselves to the main points. At least not every week such a long debate, so detailed, at a time that demands so much from us, and certainly from these rulers and certainly from the officials behind it, whom I wish very much strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u622	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u623	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the capacity in care is too low to cover the number of COVID-19 patients;]] [[Whereas a COVID-19 ship has been offered with 500 beds, including care personnel;]] [[calls on the government to seriously examine this option, and to inform the Chamber of the outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that measures under COVID-19 have been in place since March 2020;]] [[Whereas these measures result in enormous collateral damage, including medical and economic damage;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the medical and economic collateral damage suffered so far and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-866]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-867]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u624	Two more motions to support the small entrepreneurs a little bit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many entrepreneurs have applied for the NOW 3.1 before it became known that the Netherlands was back in lockdown;]] [[whereas many entrepreneurs have opted wrongly for their reference period;]] [[invites the Government to allow these operators to review their application,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many small entrepreneurs, for example in the beauty sector, are excluded from the aid measures due to a wrong SBI code, partner test at Tozo, under-burdening the TVL, et cetera and therefore risk going bankrupt;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how small entrepreneurs, such as in the beauty sector, can be helped with tailor-made solutions, thus enabling them to receive appropriate public support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-868]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-869]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u625	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u626	Mr. Chairman. There was, of course, another request from Jesse Klaver that had to do with the GGD's, but Hugo de Jonge discussed this in detail in his term. In my view, therefore, Mr Klaver has been fully served, and the feeling that we had an official was also politically supported by me. Otherwise, I'm armed to the teeth. So the question is: did I correctly assess that in replying to the Minister of VWS...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u627	Very briefly, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u628	No, because I wanted it to be exactly what happened in those six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u629	Then that's what I'm gonna do. It is therefore a question of what happened in the advice on the use of BioNTech/Pfizer in the November and December timeframes. First in a general sense. There is, of course, regular contact with RIVM and with the manufacturers of vaccines about the development of the various vaccination options. These contacts concern the quality requirements, the volume of deliveries and so on. This information has also been broadly shared throughout the development process. The discussions with Pfizer, of course, also became more concrete during that period and concerned the size of the packaging and the manner of packaging. Layer by layer more and more specific information became available: what type of bottle, labelling of the pack etc. On 2 October, there was a consultation between RIVM and Pfizer on product characteristics, the fact that these are frozen vaccines, their short shelf life and the pack size: the known 975 doses per pack. On October 5th, a formal document was issued by Pfizer on product specifications. That was also when the official information on the packaging was shared. On October 22, it was examined whether it was possible to thaw during transport, in order to avoid that -70. On 23 October, there was a meeting between the EU Member States and Pfizer on product specifications among others. In November there was research by RIVM into the possibilities of repacking the vaccine. The following applies for the second half of November. Until November, as you know, we assumed that AstraZeneca would be the first vaccine available. But in the second half of November it became increasingly clear that BioNTech/Pfizer would become it. This led to a discussion between RIVM and Pfizer on 25 November on the possibilities and impossibilities of smaller packaging. On 1 December, the known date, we heard that the EEA would advise on the admission on 29 December, with an authorisation decision at the end of the year. On the same 1 December, on the basis of research carried out by RIVM, the advice on VWS was that it would not be possible to repack in the short term. There are legal bumps, but especially practical bumps, as was reported. It cannot be -70, it can only be cool, the time involved in repacking is at the expense of the already limited shelf life, small-scale distribution leads to a lot of spilling, repacking is a careful process that takes time and, based on laws and regulations for medicines, the vaccine must be transported and delivered in the registered packaging, with proper labelling. In the first week of December, on the basis of that RIVM opinion, it was concluded that central needle sticks are needed for administration of the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine. At that time, the GGD was also asked to help with vaccination through central locations. On 8 December, a letter was sent to the Lower House explaining the choice of the cabinet for the use of BioNTech/Pfizer at central locations via the GGD. On 24 December, following the publication of the advice of the Health Council by RIVM, again looked at the possibilities for small-scale use in general practitioners. On 28 December, the result of that preliminary scenario exploration was made and it was concluded that there is no such possibility. Eventually, as you know and as has been discussed in this debate, we are now looking at the possibilities of larger institutions, satellites, the locations they control and taking responsibility for transport. We are hopeful about that. It is seen whether it is possible there, as I also outlined in the first term and as Hugo de Jonge did in his contribution. So that's the timetable Mr. Klaver asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u630	I see Mr. Clover standing there. This is all information that I think could perhaps have been provided in writing in terms of dates. This is the second term. We'll be here from 11:00. We have 17 motions to go. I give you the opportunity to ask a short question. Otherwise, you can come back to it in detail in the debate we are having on corona next week. But I do not want us to go back to the discussion that we had endlessly with each other in the second term, I say to Mr Klaver. You look very threatening to me, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u631	This was my friendly look, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u632	Oh, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u633	I will not ask any further questions about that for now. I understand it's late, so I'm not going to go on with this. In any case, I would like this information to be kept on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u634	That's what I just said to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u635	Yeah, sure. I wanted to say that was an excellent idea, Mr President. Then we can include it in the debate next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u636	Shall we add this part of the shorthand report to the letter we send next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u637	I'd be fine with that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u638	Good. Then I'll get to the motions. On the motion in part No. 853 by Mr Wilders, of course, I have no comment from the government. We're hoping for a happy ending. Then the motion to part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I explained in detail in the debate why I think that is a really bad plan. Then the motion to part No. Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr It's already being done. Then they are vulnerable pupils from the p.o. and for physical education at school. So it's not about locations in general. It's really about schools. Of course, when we decide next week on what to do, we will once again pay attention to the vulnerable pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u639	What about judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u640	The judgment on the motion in part No. 861 is Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 867 by Mr Van Haga on the mapping of the collateral damage. I have already promised Mr Van der Staaij that in the next progress letter, if necessary to take new measures, we will indicate the weighting that we are currently making of the impact of these measures, including in the non-economic sense. So that's possible. We are not going to do what Mr Van Haga is asking here. That's really making reports and mapping. That's not gonna happen. Then the motion to part No. 868 on the revision of the NOW for entrepreneurs. I must point out to you that the package as such is always sympathetic to the economic conditions. What you are asking here would be a manual adjustment by the UWV. That's impossible, because the NOW is completely automated. I need the motion in part no. 868 so advise against it. Finally, the motion on part No. 869. I must also advise against it. The SBI codes have already been removed. The TVL and the NOW apply to all companies meeting certain turnover criteria and turnover losses criteria. Customisation is not possible here either. These are schemes that can only be implemented on a large scale without customisation. Of course, we are always in contact with sectors to see what extra is needed. So those two motions, the motion in part no. 868 and the motion in part No. 869, and by the way also the motion in part No. 867, all by Mr Van Haga, I must advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u641	Thank you. Then we'll wait for a moment and give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u642	Thank you, Mr President. In the motion in part No. Mr Wilders' 855 is about January, starting with older people living at home. That would be fantastic. I would very much like to, but that really depends on deliveries, actual deliveries, of vaccines, and so I advise against this motion at the moment. If it's possible, we'll do it. But if I were to judge Chamber, there could be different expectations that I may not be able to live up to. For this reason, I advise against this motion and also advise against the next motion, the motion in part No. 855. Then the motion to part No. 856. It calls on the government to consider how the most vulnerable elderly can be vaccinated within and outside of care as soon as possible, even if this requires a temporary additional logistical operation. That's exactly what I'm doing, so I'll leave that to the Chamber, of course. Following that motion, I would like to add to what I have indicated in my last two letters to your Chamber and my speech in the first term that I may not have always mentioned the correct weekly numbers in the first period. There wasn't time to check that out. I would therefore like to explain once again, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, how BioNTech/Pfizer's deliveries are distributed over the next few weeks. Then we have no misunderstandings. At the GGD slots were opened yesterday to make 408,000 appointments for 204,000 staff from nursing homes, for two shots with three weeks apart. These stings are made from this week, week 2, through week 8. So that's the week that starts on Monday, February 22nd. For this purpose, Pfizer supplies are used that are delivered in weeks 53, 1 and 2. In week 3, which starts on Monday 18 January, and in weeks 4 and 5, a total of 310 doses are delivered for residents of nursing homes and people with learning difficulties in an institution. This allows 155,000 residents to be vaccinated. That's the whole group from the flowchart. Whether this will actually succeed will depend on the development of logistics. If that becomes a reality, 155,000 people will be available Moderna. Making Pfizer available instead of Moderna is going to happen in large institutions. As promised, I will inform you about the planning in next week's progress letter. And I ask RIVM to come up with the fastest possible variant possible with the execution parties. I'll come to the motion in part No. 858, by Mr Asscher. It requires a weekly update. Of course, I'm going to send you a regular update. But that won't be weekly, because we'll do nothing but sit behind the typewriter. So I'm gonna ask you if you'll also agree to biweekly, just in the rhythm of the biweekly progress letters. If you agree to that, the motion will be given a Chamber of Appeal. And if you don't, I'm gonna dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 863 belongs to Mr Azarkan. I'm gonna dissuade them. The motion is about recognizing the aerogenic transmission character of SARS-CoV-2. Part of the spread is of course aerogenic spread, so that's nothing new. And besides, it is still unknown about this new variant. That's what the investigation is all about. So this motion this way, I'm not suggesting. Then the motion to part No. Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr It is, in fact, ahead of the opinion currently being issued by the Health Council in response to Mr Segers' commitment at that time. So I'm gonna ask you to hold this motion. In substance, it's not such a crazy motion, but I do find it crazy to anticipate the advice of the Health Council. So I'm gonna ask you to hold the motion, or I'm gonna dissuade her. The motion in part No. 865 belongs to Sazias and Van Otterloo. It also calls on the government to use those vaccines which are still to be approved and which prove to be equally suitable for the elderly as the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine, first for the group of people living at home from 60 to 75 years before starting vaccination of the group from 18 to 60 years without medical indication. This motion is a little ahead of all the information that will, of course, become available. We always rely on the advice of the Health Council and the target group advice of the Health Council after admission by the EEA. But assuming that vaccines are equally suitable, this is, of course, the most logical line. So this seems to me to be judgment room. Because this is just a logical story. Then I come to Jetten's question: are the freezers too late? No, those freezers are in the middle of January. Then the fireplace follows through the RIVM. Vaccination could start after that. Plans have been made on the islands. If the vaccines of Moderna or AstraZeneca are available, the vaccination may start there. Another question from D66 was about travellers from the UK and South Africa, about supplementing the test in advance, and upon arrival another test in the Netherlands. Of course, I have often said that I do not think that is very useful, because the PCR tests in advance prevent people from getting in at all. Then they just have to quarantine. We're not going to do the test until January 20th, I think. It will be on day 5 after arrival, after which that quarantine may be lifted. But it has to be in that order. So I wouldn't be here for this, but let me tell you that I'm gonna think about that for a while. You asked me to answer that question before the treatment. I am going to think about this and discuss it with my colleagues. For now, I would think: this has little added value. Then the question of the Party for Animals. In the EU, has there been an argument for mink only, or for other animals as well? I just got the answer to that question. That's the answer: mink and other martyrlikes. That's the answer. Then there was a question from Mr Segers about social welfare. The people there are often as vulnerable as the people in the protected living area. In the prioritisation of the different target groups, we have had to make choices. We have chosen to give priority to the target group of the inpatient ggz, because people in this group can generally be said to be very vulnerable, for example because they are difficult to approach or because they have difficulty understanding and complying with the measures. Social care follows as soon as possible afterwards, at the same time as other care workers. How soon this can start depends in particular on the authorisation of AstraZeneca vaccine and its delivery. The planning is Q2, but if the delivery goes faster or in larger quantities, we could start earlier. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u643	Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u644	My question wasn't about which animals. It was about whether or not there was a call at European level for a ban on the overall breeding of fur animals in Europe, because that is the request of the Chamber and the government has indicated that it is going to apply at European level. So my question was not which animals, but whether this request was made to the European colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u645	Yes, so not only called for monitoring, but also for combating. We have advocated a package of measures to prevent or couple reservoir formation in farming. See also the collection letter we sent about it. That's about minks and other martyr-likes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u646	Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u647	Yeah, finally. Then my question remains as to whether it is true that the Netherlands has committed itself to a general ban on commercial fur farming in the European Union. That is what was stated in the motion which the Chamber adopted years ago and which you also undertook to do. It is therefore specifically a general ban on commercial fur farming. I don't think I can find that answer yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u648	No, I just told you what we argued for. We have therefore called for monitoring and control and for a package of measures to prevent or co-ordinate the formation of reservoirs in farming. That was explained to you in the bill of lading. You keep saying "the fur animal farming." I thought you meant to ask for any type of fur animals. Then I said, "For minks and for other martens." That's the answer. I don't have any more lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u649	Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u650	I understand that, but then, of course, the question remains as to why. Your answer shows that it is not done. Your answer shows that there has been talk of monitoring and of risks, but not of a total ban on commercial fur farming in the European Union, despite the fact that this is in the motion adopted and has been promised by yourself. So the question remains as to why that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u651	I really need to keep the answer to this for a while. Here's what I know. I didn't get any other considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u652	Next week you'll be coming with a letter, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u653	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u654	Would you like to answer this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u655	You want me to do that? I'd like that. Yeah, that sounds like a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u656	Okay, thank you. Then we'll wait a moment before the Minister for Medical Care assesses the other motions. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u657	Excuse me, Mr President, I was just looking in the letter to see if I could give the answer to Mrs Van Esch's question, but I do propose that we return to that in the letter. Mrs Van Esch's other point, on which I would like to return, is the state of play regarding the plan of action zoonoses. It has indeed been less rapid than we had hoped. We're just really busy at the Ministry. But what we did, as we put in the letter, is that we want to start the expert group and the project organisation on 1 February. We're looking for people from all over the world, where the president comes from human health. As I said, we will inform the Chamber before the summer. I hope that we can continue to catch up. Mr Heerma owed an answer to the question about aggression towards the care staff. We expect the results of the polls we are preparing and putting out about the declaration prepared on 1 March. Then I'll share them with the room, too. That doesn't mean we're doing nothing in the meantime. We already have talks with JenV about the declaration willingness, especially from the employees to the employer. That's something we'd like to encourage. So on March 1st we will return to that. Then Mr Van der Staaij asked me a question that I do care a bit about: can there still be mediation in the dispute? I explained to the Chamber the state of play with regard to the dispute. Frankly, in this world with complex organizations, as in other worlds with complex organizations, it is not unusual to go to court at any time, but I understand that this is experienced as very annoying at this time when we actually just need everyone in care. I hear that back from the room, too. We have, of course, done all we can to conduct discussions, including through the industry organisation and so on. There is now a legal process, but I would like to say to Mr van der Staaij: I have heard what you are saying; I cannot say too much about it at the moment, because it is before the courts, but I have heard your call. Then there are four motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 857, by Mrs Marijnissen. That's the motion on a structural reward in health care. We had an exchange of views on this. In addition to what the cabinet does, there are no other activities foreseen. With that, I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 860, by Mr Jetten. The motion talks about broad public support and there is also a broad signing of the motion from the Chamber, also from a huge diversity of parties. I would like to say the following to Mr Jetten. I have also indicated in the debate that it is a worthy debate and that there has also been a worthy debate by the specialists and the healthcare organisations. It is about ensuring that the caregivers who deal with this issue are aware of their social support in the hope that they will never get involved, but in case they do. That is of the utmost importance to me. In the debates and discussions that the Chamber has had on this since spring, I think this is an important step, especially in view of this signature. So here's what I'd like. I see this signal. In the context of this broad consensus, I would like to say to Mr Jetten: let me contact the field organisations to discuss this with them and think about it. Then I would like to return to that, hopefully for the next debate. I would therefore ask him to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u658	If we can end this carefully carried out process, then I want to give the Minister that space and I will continue the motion for a resolution for now. I hope that we will be able to get a follow-up to this next week's debate and if this does not work out, at the latest for the debate scheduled for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u659	Sure. I will make myself strong for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u660	At the request of Mr Jetten, I propose his motion (25295, No. 860). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u661	Then the motion to part No. 862, by Mr Azarkan. It's about masks in health care. It is not the responsibility of the government to establish this, but it is the case that principles have been formulated for the use of mouth-nose masks. That is what the whole healthcare sector, science and also the people who work in the care sector have been behind. I therefore advise against this motion, but I can perhaps underline the following, also in the direction of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, who spoke about it in the first term. If people find themselves in the situations she outlined and if the conversation with the employer does not work, we would like them to contact the Inspection SZW or the IGJ as well. The motion in part No. Mr Van Haga's 863 concerns the ship with beds. I don't recommend that motion. There has been an assessment of this initiative. It was an entrepreneur with a ship with amenities and Cuban care staff. The weighting on this initiative is that care workers outside Europe must go through a recognition procedure. That procedure takes a lot of time, at least two years. This has to do with the healthcare standards in the Netherlands. So this idea has not provided a short-term solution, but I very much appreciate everyone's consideration. I do not recommend this motion, but we also saw in the spring, for example, that many initiatives on ventilation equipment have been able to get grounded. I'm grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u662	Mr Van Haga, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u663	Could we get that report, that consideration and the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u664	Then I'd have to find out how that got its impact. I suggest I record something about that in the upcoming Corona letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u665	Well, no, I'd really like to have that consideration, that report, because it's actually been reviewed. I assume there are criteria for that. So I'd like to see that report. A single sentence in that letter is therefore not enough. If there's a report or a trade-off, I don't think it's that hard to share that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u666	I will look for this consideration, regardless of the form, and I will include information on this in the upcoming Corona letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u667	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-05-tweedekamer-4.u668	We're gonna vote. I propose that we suspend for a maximum of ten minutes, because we need a voting list. I'm still gonna get that one. If I see it correctly and if everyone agrees, we can vote immediately when that voting list is ready. Yeah? Then we'll just wait a minute.
