ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35874, Amendment of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 in connection with the settlement of the requirement for the adoption by law of a royal decree extending the provisions of Article VIII, third paragraph, of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, and the debate on the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. We have arrived at the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u3	Good morning, thank you. I would like to order the answer as follows. Let's just drop right into the house and start with the main dish: everything that is about the legislative proposal itself and the regulation of determining control. The second part will, as far as I am concerned, be about looking forward towards autumn. A number of questions have been asked about this, both on the content and on how the legal form of the measures should look towards the autumn. The third block is more of a reflection on actuality. The number of questions that have been asked has been quite large. But I'm going to do that a little bit succinctly, because I'm going to be back in this beautiful room tomorrow to have the same debate with the House of Representatives. So I'm going to try to do the reflection on actuality a little bit succinctly. After that I have a number of other questions, which were not very easy to arrange. Let's start with the first block. This is about the present bill, which regulates that the royal decree is followed by an approval law. But of course it mainly regulates what the First Chamber has requested, namely determining control in the extension of the Twm. We have talked about this on a regular basis. I have seen the long history of the debates and the letterwriting over and over again, and that is impressive. I also increasingly understand why. Therefore, I did not find it so difficult to defend the need to regulate this bill in this way in the House of Representatives. But I think it should be said that not everyone across the street was immediately furiously enthusiastic, to put it mildly. I have never heard one critical comment about dancing with Janssen on the other side, but about dancing with the Janssen motion all the more. However, I am convinced that this is a good way to go, firstly because the First Chamber is asking. If one of the two Chambers of Parliament asks this, then you have to come from a good house to keep saying: no, we don't want that. This is increasingly, or to a greater extent, as Mr Janssen himself puts it, in a crisis, because it is precisely in a crisis in which you are entering unknown territory that the two Chambers of Parliament must be sufficiently involved and able to exercise their influence. That's a second reason. So it's more than just courtesy that's been named across the street. It is also right to do it this way. This was initially not proposed. I also told the House of Representatives: it's like a birth card, not a question, but it's still received. But I think it is right that it has been filled in this way. The Janssen motion led to the letter of modalities. It was then completed. He put the ball on the dot and that ball was shot in by the De Boer motion, which said: do us this form of decisive control. We will conclude this legislative process with this law. Then I come to the questions that have been asked. I shall begin with Mr Van der Voort's question as to whether the Minister can promise that the written round will always be answered within a few days for both laws of approval. Yes, because the law prescribes "without delay." That's a beauty of a word. That just means "as soon as possible." As soon as possible with an approval law: a few days. It doesn't have to take longer than that. Mr Van der Voort asks that the control of the First Chamber be retained. Yeah, actually all other fronts retain control. At this point the control is strengthened, namely: the First Chamber can now simply say no to the extension of the Twm. The First Chamber couldn't do that at first, but the First Chamber can do that now. Is it true that the bill is about the extension and not about the measures themselves? That's right. This is also important to recall in view of the qualifications I have heard from a single group when it comes to'major restrictions on fundamental rights'. Well, that's the law itself, of course. The law itself thus regulates the possibilities of actually adopting restrictive measures. By the way, these possibilities already existed on the basis of the Wpg. Only, the Twm is intended to regulate democratic participation in those fundamental rights restrictive measures in an appropriate way. I think that's what the Twm is meant for at all. This law is only intended to give the First Chamber also decisive control in the matter of whether or not to extend it. So it is not about the measures themselves. Because even if you were to extend the law, even if you were to extend the measures contained in that law, the question is whether you are applying the measures. The application itself takes place not in the law but in an arrangement. This arrangement has a follow-up, both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. On the basis of your usual instruments, you can also intervene towards the cabinet. Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks asks whether the government agrees that the way of parliamentary involvement contained in this bill will be the standard, including for future legislation. As stated in the written documents, the construction of an extension KB in the legislative proposal with a subsequent approval law is a unique one, and not the standard. However, the standard that an RB or scheme is followed in emergency legislation by an approval law is already included in the Regulatory Instructions. At the moment there is actually no reason to change that standard. Mrs Prins asks how the cabinet can assume its administrative responsibility for a difference of opinion between the Lower House and the Upper House. We will continue to do so as we have done in recent months. There was a difference of opinion between the Second Chamber and the First Chamber about how the First Chamber should be given decisive control. We initially solved that by submitting options to your First Chamber, but also to outline the context of how it was experienced in the Second Chamber. You weighed that and that led to the Janssen motion first and then the De Boer motion. With this the "order" towards the cabinet was clear. With that order under the arm we went back to the House of Representatives and said: how should we implement this? How do you see this? Initially, the Committee for VWS said: this is none of our business, it is the Justice Committee that deals with this. Then the Justice Commission said: well, we'll just take that letter for notification. Then the cabinet thought: then it is wise to take the lead in resolving this, because otherwise it will last until the end of the day. Then we've chased Corona out of the country before we've solved this issue. That is why we have made the choice to come up with a legislative proposal that goes through the House of Representatives at the same time as a matter of urgency. That's why we're here now. I think that, where appropriate, we should take a practical look at what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u4	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I had only asked a slightly different question about this, but perhaps that did not come across sufficiently clearly: what happens if the First Chamber votes the law? So how does the cabinet deal with its administrative responsibility? Because the cabinet has said, on the basis of the expert teams and its own considerations, 'we want that law to go ahead', but both Chambers, and therefore this Chamber, say no. How do you, as a cabinet, deal with the administrative responsibility? That is actually the essence of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u5	That would, of course, put us at the forefront of a complex issue, so that would be avoided. This was to be avoided, first of all, by submitting a proposal for an extension to your Chamber, and by holding a thorough debate on it and coming to the conclusion together: is it sensible or not to continue the extension? That's one. Two is: if the Twm falls, we fall back on the arrangement of the Wpg and, on its own, it also offers instruments, albeit less entirely from the point of view of democratic legitimacy, to combat a crisis. Then we will have to rely on those instruments until we have been able to submit something better to the Second and Upper Chambers. I assume that if your Chamber rejects the extension of the Twm, there is a certain conviction, a specific question behind it, why the Upper House would not want to extend the Twm, whereas the experts do, the Cabinet does and the Lower House does. We have to face that and solve it, again in relation to both Chambers, but that is actually the same with every law. If a law is aligned in the Upper House which is deemed necessary in the Lower Chamber, then it is homework for the Cabinet. If we still want that law, we must get back to work to put together a law that can be supported by both Chambers. In this particular case, the basic arrangement of the Wpg always exists and that makes the situation somewhat less difficult, I think. It is not that we will then have no instruments at all to combat the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u6	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u7	Then Mr Van Hattem: is the time limit for submitting an approval law a time limit of order or a fatal deadline? It's a time limit of order. It is therefore not the case that the law should lapse when we would not be on time with the filing of an approval law. It is true that you then treat the approval law as mustard after meals, and that is not what a parliament should want. I think that if I have such a bad idea that that is the result, or if you yourself are planning so badly that that is the result, then we feel in the debate that we are not having a super-sense debate. If it's the Cabinet's fault it's not on time, I think you'll blame me. So that wouldn't be a very career-long act for me. If it is because of yourself, it will lead to some self-reflection: shouldn't we have planned better? Furthermore, we should not panic about it, but it simply does not make much sense to deal with an approval law after the extension has already entered into force. That's just mustard after dinner. So we have to make sure that we do it in time and we will save the RB in time and then submit the approval law in time, which is to say immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u8	But that is actually also the crux and that was also discussed in the article in RegelMaat: what if the cabinet itself does not immediately come up with that approval law and leaves it for a long time? So the Minister is now saying that the only instrument that the Chamber can oppose is the principle of trust. Or does the Minister see any other possibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u9	It's gonna be all right. It's gonna be all right. It's gonna be all The legal mandate to the cabinet is simply: immediately. This means that we must do so without delay, and if we do not do so without delay, then you cannot, as the First Chamber and also as the Second Chamber, carry out such a planning that you will be able to discuss the approval proposal in time, namely before the date of the extension, and I think you will charge me with that. Then you have a large suitcase of tools to make your displeasure known to the cabinet. Which instrument you take out of that suitcase, I'd be happy to leave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u10	That is indeed one of the possibilities, but in principle it is the most far-reaching means that can be used. But does the Minister perhaps still see certain guarantees or at least several guarantees towards the parliament, should it be so that it is going to take a little longer from the cabinet before the approval law is offered? Then, at least for the history of law, we can establish that these are the points of reference that the Chamber can take back if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u11	That point of reference is simply the qualification "without delay." It's in the law, and that's the assignment to the cabinet. You're gonna break the C.B., and you're gonna file the approval bill immediately. The Chamber can then have a debate with the cabinet on this. Once again, if I do so at such a late time that the extension has already taken place, you will probably express your displeasure about it to the cabinet in all manner of keys. You even have the instruments in your suitcase to strengthen that. But, of course, you are talking about the use of your own instruments. That you're going to be grumpy about that by then, may be clear. So I'm not gonna do that either. I'm just gonna take care of filing the approval act without delay. Van Hattem asks: when is this epidemic occurring and are there all kinds of epidemiological thresholds for the extension of the Twm? First of all, I would like to point out that the need for deployment is reflected in the epidemiological need. We'll let the OMT advise us on that. That's one. Two. The power to implement this type of measure arises from the A status. We've assigned the A status per KB. This is also the subject of an approval law. I recently had that debate in the Lower House. That approval law was submitted without delay, but was not dealt with with in a very rapid manner. There has been a note on the report. The cabinet simply did not act on that quickly enough, but by the way, the Chamber has never reappeared on it again either. So we were there recently discussing the approval law. That did not deserve the beauty prize, as I said in the House of Representatives. But with the determination of A status, the power has been created to do the interventions necessary to control the epidemic. What we will have to do again and again with an extension is convince your Chamber, like the House of Representatives, of the need for it. There are, of course, epidemiological arguments for this, but we are in a transitional phase. This has to do with the fact that we have an increasing vaccination rate, but also a decreasing, low hospital occupancy. Although there is a high incidence rate on the infections, infections are less easily translated into "and so you have to take this measure." Those relationships are alternating. This summer we look at what new grip we can find in it. Until then, we simply have to face up to the state of affairs and we have to see if the current contagion rates also see through hospitalisations. I'll come back to that in a little bit more detail later. However, we do not have a sample map of target indicators that we can already say will be based on certain epidemiological factors in the next extension. However, we will base our efforts on the epidemiological need to implement measures. We have that convincingly to present to your Chamber per extension. Can the Twm still be extended if there is no longer an epidemic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u12	Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u13	No, Mr. Chairman. Let the Minister answer this question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u14	No, if there is no longer an epidemic, the need for action will of course disappear. The question is: when did that moment actually come? That question is not being answered so easily at the moment. Does the Minister now opt for a two-track policy by extending the Twm at the same time? That's not true. The Twm can be extended if necessary to combat the epidemic and even if necessary to avert a direct threat of the epidemic. A direct threat may arise if, for example, new variants occur or if there is a variant that appears to be more contagious. We firmly believe that action will still have to be taken in the third quarter. That is why you have now been presented with the extension of the Twm. We are, of course, basing ourselves on the advice of the OMT. The Twm offers the instrument box that might be needed in the autumn. Whether we are actually going to use those instruments in that box depends on the situation. We will submit this to you by arrangement in the follow-up procedure. If you think that we are wrongly using the instruments in the coffin, then you will draw me to the tie, I think. So that's how it's done. We are only dealing here with extending the powers to take measures and extending the procedure in which we could do so. Whether we actually implement these measures depends on the situation. We will always inform you of this in the form of a ministerial arrangement, so that you can intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u15	There are a lot of points at the same time, but I will start with the latter. That was not so much my question. It was more about the fact that there is now at the same time the Act of Approval to include COVID-19 as an infectious disease A in the Wpg, as a basis for all possible measures to be taken in it. At the same time, therefore, the Minister keeps this temporary law in the air in order to be able to take measures as well. That's what I mean by the two-track policy. So my question was: why not withdraw the Act on the Approval of Infectious Disease A if there is already a temporary emergency law in place to take all the necessary measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u16	It's actually two things. The first is to explain COOVID-19 into an A-disease at all. If you do that on the basis of the Wpg, you actually say: we see the need for action. They'll all be listed. It is about quarantine and all kinds of restrictive measures that you could only take in the case of an A disease. If you see this need, let us, of course, advise ourselves by the OMT, then there is an obligation to first turn it into an A disease before taking these measures. That is what Mr Bruins did at the beginning of last year, by immediately following the Royal Decree, I have to say that I have to submit an approval law. We did. The treatment was then extended for too long. But we did file the approval law without delay. We're just treating it now. You can't just rescind that law. Because if you did, you would say that we do not think COOVID-19 is an A disease and that we do not see the need for restrictive measures. That would be crazy. The Twm does not so much regulate the need for action. It regulates more the procedure in which we take action, and thus also your involvement. So it's a two-track policy? Actually, no. It's an extension of each other. First of all, you need the A-status in order to be able to adopt any drastic, restrictive measures at all. Next, in the Twm you regulate the procedure in which you come to action and therefore also what the parliamentary involvement in taking those measures looks like. And yes, the Twm is indeed related to COVID-19, because, unlike all the other diseases we know, the crisis has been going on for such an incredibly long time. That means that it is not really enough for the cabinet to take a direction towards a specific region and it points itself out by itself in the sense of: the virus acts like this and when it breaks out, we know what to do on the basis of existing procedures. That's not how it works. We are actually again and again at every stage discovering how to get the virus underneath and what measures are appropriate in the various stages of the fight against the crisis. That is why your Chamber at the time did not want the cabinet to do so simply on the basis of the appropriate regulations of the Wpg with the making of a designation and the making of emergency regulations in security regions. No, your Chamber wanted parliamentary involvement to be organised in a different way, so that a different procedure was put in place for the interpretation and use of the powers vested in the Cabinet, because this disease has an A status. Your Chamber said: because we see and find it, the Twm must be there and because we want to look again and again at whether we really want to send these powers to the Cabinet in this way, we want to be able to extend the measures each time. The cabinet had proposed to do so once a year, but the Council of State said: do so once every six months. Both chambers said, "Do that once every three months." That seems to us to be sufficient. If there had been a third room, I think we would have extended it every one and a half months. That's why we're here. That is why we will be standing here next quarter, and the quarter after that I will come to that in a moment to argue again and again from the cabinet what is the reason why we think that the temporary law is still needed. And we all do that in the light of COOVID-19 as an A-disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u17	Mr Van Hattem, finally. I would suggest that we give the Minister a chance to make some progress. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u18	The Minister was already quite steamy in his comprehensive answer. But the point remains. If this Chamber or the House of Representatives later says about this new law that it is setting a line through the measures and the approval law is voted down, then the Twm disappears. Then the Minister or the Cabinet can say: wait a minute, we still have the Wpg with the A status for infectious diseases, so we can immediately take the same measures again. So we find ourselves in a situation where it is nice and nice that we can vote these measures away, but if this bill does not come through, then there is yet another full legal basis to go through with it, and then perhaps we are talking about a dead letter. That's what I mean by the two-track policy. Can the Minister indicate how it will be prevented from becoming a dead letter when one of the two chambers votes away the law and then the cabinet says: we still have the Wpg, so we can continue all these measures in the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u19	That's a good point. It's a good point to be very precise about. If the First Chamber were to say 'just a fictional example' that it does not consider the extension of the Twm necessary, then your Chamber does not necessarily declare the crisis to be over, but then your Chamber actually says: the way in which we have taken action over the past period, that way of parliamentary involvement, does not have to be necessary for us anymore. So the Chamber says: "Dear Minister, just take the measures on the basis of the Wpg, because that's enough; just point out to the region, because it's mainly about regional revivals now, so just do it that way, without the more extensive parliamentary involvement we had organized for ourselves in the Twm. That's what you're saying. If you say that you do not think COVID-19 is A-disease at all, say you would say that; you do not say that, you should vote against the approval law that regulates the existence of an A-disease. If you did, I would no longer have the powers under the Wpg either, because that A status would be lacking. The A status legitimizes the adoption of restrictive powers. So if you were to vote against the extension of the Twm, it is not possible at this time, but next time you are going to vote against the A-status, you can do so soon, because I assume that that approval law has come through from the Second Chamber to the First Chamber, then I do not really have the powers to take these measures. Moreover, I do not have the opportunity to combat the effects on the economy. That may be bad, but that is the content of the debate that we then have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u20	I shall now turn to Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u21	This is an interesting discussion. It may be a bit of a theoretical discussion, because I do not think it would be very likely that it would not be an A disease. I think Mr Van Hattem has a point. Suppose theoretically that the parliament would not accept that it is an A disease, then it does not expire chapter Va.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u22	No, but then, of course, the likelihood of your Chamber becoming enthusiastic about the application of all the arrangements that will be necessary first of all to declare those instruments applicable at all. So if the Chamber were to reject the A status and I would still like to take another measure under Article 58, so under the Twm-type articles, you would say: no, why, after all, we had decided that it was not an A status at all? It's all perfectly theoretical, you know. We'll never get into that movie. I just think you should see that the temporary law is always in line with the assessment of COVID-19 as an A disease. If your Chamber were to reach a completely different judgment than the Cabinet, namely if the Chamber did not see it at all as an A disease, then you would obviously, as a Chamber, be unaware of the need for restrictive measures. If I do, you'll probably disagree. The possibility of disagreeing as a parliament is precisely under the Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u23	I think the Minister is right that it is a bit theoretical, but however you see it, legally it is conceivable that it is not an A disease, but that chapter Va would simply be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u24	Expanded would be...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u25	You would only solve that by including, for example, in the definition of epidemic that covid must be designated as A disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u26	Yes, this is so theoretical! Imagine, as a parliament, saying that you do not think it is an A disease at all, you say that you do not see any need for action at all. You actually say that, and for some reason, as a parliament, you do think that the Twm should be extended, which is quite crazy if you do not think it is A disease. I am going to propose this, because that is what I have to propose in connection with the follow-up procedure in order to implement measures which will then be extended by law in the form of a ministerial arrangement. I'll check it out. Then you say: yes, hello, we didn't think it was an A disease, so of course we're not going to take those measures either. I think that the situation that Van Hattem sketches is a purely theoretical one which I do not think is conceivable in practice. Well, we've really explored all the corners and holes in the bill now, haven't we? Fun this!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u27	Mr. Van Hattem, I'd like to give the Minister a chance to make some meters, but if you still have a single question, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u28	These are very important points. The Minister says that this is a theory, but what we have seen over the past year and a half is that everything that in theory seemed unthinkable has happened in many ways. So we're gonna have to do a very sharp scan of these things. The Minister is basically assuming that it must indeed be an infectious A disease and that you are opposed to all measures. There is already a certain pressure here and a certain frame laid down to maintain those measures as always necessary and effective. The Minister was very quick to ignore a number of essential points, including the epidemiological threshold. For example, the Nivel always uses...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u29	What's your question, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u30	That's what I'm getting at, Mr. Chairman. So the epidemiological threshold, in order to determine whether there is a flu epidemic. But at COVID-19, you should have such an epidemiological threshold in order to be able to establish an epidemic in concrete terms, especially when the Minister now states that we are moving towards an endemic phase. So can the Minister focus when there is an epidemic or an endemia?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u31	Firstly, in order to determine that something is an A disease, not so much do the epidemiological thresholds apply, but rather the question: is it necessary to take restrictive measures; and if so, what restrictive measures? And so you come to the assessment of whether something should be an A disease, or a B1 or a B2 or a C disease. So this is not so much measured by the level of epidemiological values, but by the need for action. That's how the Wpg works. That's one. Two is that, of course, I am very willing to discuss it with everyone. But, yes, the reality of COVID-19, the uncomfortable reality of COVID-19, is that the death rate is so high, and the disease burden, in the Netherlands and worldwide, that I haven't actually heard anyone who would dare to discuss "are we actually in an epidemic"? That is a question that is so out of order, beyond reality, that I could not imagine anyone wanting to have that discussion. That's the second one. And the third question is: when are we actually going to move from the epidemic phase, the outbreak phase at which you have to take measures to keep that outbreak under, to an endemic phase? I think that concept is being used too ferociously, because it really takes a while before we are actually in that endemic phase. But is that bad? Is that bad in the legal sense, or is that bad in the legislative sense or in the practical sense? Well, not really, I would think, because the Twm doesn't arrange for measures to be taken. The Twm regulates the way in which measures are taken if they prove necessary, namely that the cabinet is first advised by experts, and the cabinet then proposes in the arrangements that are attached to the Chamber under the Twm: we want to take these measures as a cabinet; do you agree? And then they first hang in the Lower House, and then in the Upper Chamber, and before they go in, you have every opportunity to intervene. In short, is it bad that there are measures in the law that you may not have to use? No, that's okay, because before we use them, we're gonna have to do the follow-up procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u32	Well, actually, it kind of breaks my nugget. For the minister says: "There is no one who says there would be no epidemic" et cetera. Nota bene, the state-of-the-art letter of 18 June from this minister very clearly outlines: we are moving from an epidemic to an endemic phase in the coming period. That is literally what it says; that is very clearly mentioned. And that needs to be taken into account. And now the Minister himself says, "Yes, but we are far from ready." I get the feeling that the Minister is getting off the ground here, including in terms of indicators and all possible justification for action. In fact, it seems that it is only the measures themselves that are at stake, rather than the control of the disease. And it's said, there's a lot of people getting killed. At the moment, the number of deaths is virtually nil in the Netherlands. The mortality rate, I believe, is just about 0.15% anyway. So it's not relative to all other A-diseases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u33	What's your question, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u34	So my question to the Minister is: how does the Minister come to say now that "there is no one who says we are leaving the epidemic phase" when he himself said "we are moving from an epidemic phase to an endemic phase"? How then is this concretely established? 'Cause now it's really going all over the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u35	Finally, the Minister, and then I go to Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u36	Yes, this is a bit of a special representation of reality, I think. We have indeed written in a comprehensive letter that we are entering a transitional phase. Moreover, I would like to go into this in more detail, in the second block, namely the outlook in the autumn. Only, of course, that does not allow you to establish that you are going to end up in an endemic phase in the very short term; of course that is not possible. For there will be revivals. And the extent to which the revivals can actually get us into trouble, we do not know at all, and we cannot really judge at this time at all. I can only assume that Mr Van Hattem does not seriously want to discuss the damage caused by this epidemic: over 17,000 registered deaths at RIVM; and the excess mortality rate is, I believe, 30,000 in the Netherlands since the start of the crisis. Just looking at the huge, huge health damage by printing away care in hospitals by having to take care of covid patients... There is no disease that has come anywhere near the Netherlands over the past few decades, which has caused us so incredibly much health damage in a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u37	I shall now turn to Mr Janssen. No, Mr. Van Hattem, Mr. Janssen is up first. After that, you will certainly have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u38	Then I want a personal...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u39	I now give the floor to Mr Janssen, as agreed. After that, I'm sure you'll get your turn for your sixth interruption. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u40	The impression now seems to arise that the thrust of the motion on determining control is that it is intended for this Chamber to say no. I would like to say that this is not the case. The motion on determining control is intended to see who is concerned with the extension, the cabinet or parliament. That is what it is meant for, and not just to say no, but also to say yes. I would like to emphasise this here, otherwise there will be a very wrong frame. That's the first thing. Secondly, the Wpg is of course not written and intended for a pandemic like we are going through. That's why we've been asked to come up with a change for a pandemic. I myself advocated a kind of lex special, because a pandemic such as we are experiencing now also requires special control and involvement of Parliament. In his second block, in which he will look at the future, can the Minister also give consideration to that point, in the sense of: how are we going to regulate this particular involvement, other than that which is now generally regulated in the Wpg?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u41	Sure. You are right to say that the law is not meant to say no. It may be possible, but if we suggest it, I hope you will say yes. That is what we consider necessary. At least we'll try to convince you of that. The question is whether we can do that. The law regulates decisive control in the event of an extension, so that the Parliament, which has also adopted the original law, can itself assess whether renewal is indeed at issue. We will indeed have to look to the future at which legislative arrangement is best suited. I'm about to go into the second block about how we feel about that right now. We certainly haven't had the last conversation about that, not even between us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u42	I have to say that I actually thought it was a bit crooked what the Minister just did, as if I were denying all the sick and all the dead and so on. There is no question of that, but I note that the Minister himself creates a great deal of uncertainty by starting on the first page of his own stand-of-business letter of 18 June with: we are now in the transition phase, on the road to the endemic phase. So the Minister himself comes along with this, but then he denies or dismisses this perhaps uncomfortable fact for him and opens up the attack on me by saying that I look away from all the dead and so on. No, I'm not looking away from that, but I'm just looking at the current situation. It's different from the last year and a half. Or does the Minister say that what he has done over the past year and a half has made no sense at all? So the Minister himself says that we are moving towards an endemic phase. Then I would also like to hear what the criteria are, what he bases himself on and how the steps are taken, because this is not something we can just ignore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u43	The adjective you just used for the Minister does not seem appropriate to the courtesy of this Chamber, so I would ask you to refrain from doing so in the future. But I understand your point. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u44	Let me be clear: in response to Mr Van Hattem's question, whether we are dealing with an A disease at all, I merely wanted to outline that it is not so difficult to answer, especially with the experience of the last year and a half. Also the question of whether we are in an epidemic is not so difficult to answer. I don't really believe that anyone is questioning that. And yes, we're moving to an endemic phase. Let's hope so. We can't be in an epidemic for eternity anyway. All the experts will say that we are indeed in the transitional phase there. The question is, when are you gonna get there? When are you gonna know if you're gonna get there? Mr Van Hattem is asking for indicators to be established on the basis of which you can say: then we are here. But it's not that easy for the world to be guided. We need to regain control over the indicators when what measures are considered necessary. We come from a situation where we had a roadmap based on indicators for hospitalisations, ic intakes and infection rates. In addition, it was decisive whether the R was below or above 1. In this context, a number of measures per level of risk applied. You just have the risks at the moment to weigh differently. I will go into more detail in a moment on how these risks really need to be weighed differently for the time to come, but there are a lot of uncertainties about exactly how to do that. I would like to underline that. That's the message I want to convey. We are entering a transitional phase, or are actually already in it, but the uncertainties are incredibly great and are not just caught up in all kinds of indicators. If Mr Van Hattem deduces from this that the cabinet seems to feel the need to impose measures longer than strictly necessary... Well, it can be seen from the past two weeks that the opposite is the case. But I'll argue that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u45	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u46	The Minister keeps going around it. By the way, it was not an adjective, linguistically speaking. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u47	Yes, it was. Read the Acts again. It's purely an adjective. At least the word I was referring to was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u48	Then maybe it was another word, Mr. Chairman. However, I have to say that the Minister himself says on the first page that the transition to the endemic phase has now arrived. It doesn't say "in a while," it says "now." Those are the words of the Minister's letter. And in paragraph 5, on page 36, a whole piece is written about the transition from epidemic to endemia. Among other things, it is stated that we can then return to a regular structure of infectious disease control et cetera. There are indeed factors where there is no longer an epidemic. The Minister says that this transition has now arrived. Can the Minister indicate what steps will be taken in this transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u49	Sure, that's the next block. But we are in a transitional phase. That certainly hasn't reached the endemic phase we're going to. Perhaps Mr Van Hattem read that in the letter, but that is not what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u50	May I suggest you finish the current block first? Then you'll come back to this, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u51	Sure! Mr Van Rooijen asks: why was an all-or-no provision chosen in the adoption proposal? Isn't there an intermediate option? The majority of your Chamber has voted in favour of a delegation under the requirement of approval by law for the royal decree. That was one of the modalities in that letter. The motion-De Boer c.s. It has been pointed out in that direction. With the present bill, I will respond to that. The delegation approved by law is an all-or-none procedure as a starting point. After all, the decision in question has already been adopted, i.e. per KB, and is already in force. The bill actually takes that decision already taken. It is also actually to have your Chamber ratify or reject that, one of those two. That's what an approval bill is about. Each extension shall be preceded by a careful process. The latest state of affairs will always be taken into account. I think it would be wise to raise the point that Mr Nicolaï mentioned, which was also mentioned by Mr Van der Staaij in the House of Representatives: where a suspension procedure falls because there is now another procedure, namely with a KB and then an approval law, it does not, of course, mean that the cabinet cannot have a prior discussion with the Chamber of Representatives about how it actually thinks about that extension, before coming to an KB. Of course it is. In the informal sense, it is even quite similar to a front hanging procedure. How do we make that possible? Once every few weeks we write a progress letter in which we outline the state of play and look forward on the basis of the advice of our experts. We add the advice of our experts. This makes it possible to write to your Chamber prior to the extension: we thought that the extension should look like this. Mr Nicolaï is right to say that your Chamber can intervene by saying that we did not think so. The cabinet would be wise to listen to that, because imagine that we should strike a KB that goes completely against the wishes of both Chambers or against the wishes of the Upper Chamber and then submit that Act of Approval. Then we take the risk, knowingly, that your Chamber will reject that approval law. Of course, we're not waiting for that. So precisely because that nuclear option exists at the end of the journey, it is assured that the conversation that precedes it will be a good conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u52	I would like to thank the Minister for this clear answer. But he also says that this Chamber, which is then dealt with here in a law and may be approved, cannot judge the interpretation of certain procedures in that Chamber; I am now speaking alone about this Chamber. That was actually my point. My question remains how we can also be better involved in the preparation of this Royal Decree in the future. You run the risk of giving a certain interpretation that the Lower House may support, but not the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u53	That is why I would like to emphasise what Mr Nicolaï has also said about this. The First Chamber is always free to search for the debate with the Cabinet on the basis of the progress letters. In one of the progress letters prior to the adoption of the KB extension, the cabinet will, of course, draw attention to our view on how this extension should be achieved. Your Chamber may then intervene. Your Chamber may say: 'You would like to keep those powers in the law, but we do not really want to, so don't do that.' Mrs Prins also points out that the order from the First Chamber may then be different from the order from the Second Chamber. It could be. It is up to us to deal with this in a sensible way at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u54	Then of course it remains a fact that it is very important that the cabinet is sufficiently aware of what is going on in the Second and First Chambers. It is, of course, quite a horse's tool, to use that word, which merely gives the democratic foundation to say no to the sword of Damocles. We could not have played a role and said that you might have weighed it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u55	I would also like to look at how we have acted on this issue in the last year and a half. I think that the way we dealt with the Janssen motion and the De Boer motion has shown that we are listening carefully to what the Upper House thinks. Suppose you call us to account when we outline how we intend to organise the extension. Suppose you call us to account for this and say, "We did not think so. We really think you should do that differently." If the cabinet continues knowingly and knowingly on a road which it knows is not so appreciated in the First Chamber, then we, as a cabinet, risk that you may be able to amend that approval law. Because you can, because you have that nuclear option, we will of course only be more inclined to listen to what the First Chamber thinks about it, even before it has come to an RB. I would also like to say to reassure you that the option is not so very nuclear, because if the Twm falls, you can still fight the crisis, albeit on the basis of legislation that we have already said is imperfect, given the corona crisis. Then you just fall back on the Wpg and we'll have to come up with a replacement toolbox very quickly. But we'll be 23 what ifs ahead. We just need to make sure it never ends up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u56	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u57	Yes, Mr President, finally. I hear it particularly, because we have, of course, had the discussion earlier in this Chamber with your colleagues, including Minister Grapperhaus, in which it was said that the House of Representatives is of a somewhat different, higher order than the First Chamber. If the House of Representatives finds something, what's the First Chamber gonna do? If the House of Representatives finds something, why should we also take account of the Upper House? Fortunately, that story has now passed, but that was the underlying reason for the motions we had. That is how we finally came to this result. So it's not that obvious. Until recently we were actually a bit on the edge. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u58	Yes, but I also hope that you have seen how we ourselves have added to that. I think that's how we need to see it. I do not think that 'of a higher order' has been Mr Grapperhaus' choice of words either. 'Of a different order', however, because the political primacy in the current fight against the crisis is, of course, in the House of Representatives. This was also said yesterday by a number of speakers. If you would like to bring a law into the Upper House at all, you have to go through the hoop of the Lower House. Of course it is. A law the Lower House will never want to get into the Upper Chamber, that is not possible. It doesn't work. From this you can deduce that the political primacy lies with the House of Representatives. Nevertheless, in our parliamentary system, two Chambers have been chosen, not one Chamber. This means that we are firmly in favour of the legislative proposal as it stands today. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I have a job to do on my phone every now and then. Then I come to the question by Van Rooijen and Otten, namely: can the Minister explain again why an opinion from the Council of State is not necessary? On the contrary, we attach great importance to the opinion of the Council of State. And precisely because we attach great importance to it, it is wise to include that advice when we can do something with it. That means that you have the advice at an earlier time on the renewal than on the approval law. In addition, approval laws are usually advised blankly. It must be very strange to have a very substantive opinion on this. That's not really possible. That extra step would really be a bit double-up. We therefore involve the Council of State much earlier in the process. Then Mr Nicolaï says that the Twm's decay clause now seems to be a bit rude. He asked whether we were prepared to see how this could be resolved otherwise, namely that instruments should not lapse, but that their operation should be suspended. I think Mr Nicolaï has a point there. It is now indeed on or off, but once out also means out of the toolbox. You really need to start a new legislative process to get it back in the toolbox. There's something rude about that, indeed. You could reason otherwise, too. If you leave the article in the law, so per KB extends, you don't have to use it yet. That is de facto, not the law, but de facto, also a form of suspension, of course. For example, there are a lot of articles in the law that we do not use at the moment, which we have used, but which are currently left unused in the toolbox. That is a form of suspension, in a practical sense. But you're right. It would be even better if you could also suspend an article. So that's what we're gonna look at. That's an interesting suggestion. Then I guess I answered the questions in the first block. So that's really about the bill that's now before us. Then I want to go to the second block now. That is more about: what then towards autumn? What does dike monitoring look like and what tools are needed during the transitional phase? How are you supposed to make that legal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u59	Let me turn to the previous point on the Council of State. I have the advice of the Council of State here. The Council of State is not known in this. According to the Council of State, this is quite an expansive interpretation of the Constitution. The Council of State makes very good arguments as to why this is not such a wise decision. That exception, in order not to know the Council of State, is actually only applied to budget proposals, on the basis of the Constitution. So could the Minister explain why the Council of State is not important here? Of course, the situation could have changed if that were to be the case. So why is the Council of State being skipped here? That's not quite clear to me yet. I would like another explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u60	I think it would be good to clarify that the Council of State is not being skipped. On the contrary, the Council of State is more involved in the legislative process. What we are doing is to seek advice from the Council of State on this matter prior to the establishment of a Royal Decree. That was a suggestion from Mr Van der Staaij, I believe, in the debate in the House of Representatives. This means that the Council of State is actually being consulted very early on the need for it to continue. The question is: should you do that after that, when you come up with that approval law? Of that, too, the Council of State itself says: well, we think that's a little double-up. So I think it is precisely with this that we are adequately fulfilling the role of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u61	The Council of State doesn't say that at all. The Council of State says literally: "The choice made in the legislative proposal to ignore it in this case does not fit in with this reluctance required by the Constitution. This is all the more true because, in the case of parts of Chapter Va Wpg, there are fundamental constitutional questions in which the rights of citizens enshrined in the Constitution are expressly at stake. In this situation, care must be taken to ensure that legislation is properly implemented." So it is not correct what the Minister says. The Council of State says precisely that, because fundamental rights are at stake, care is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u62	Yeah, look, the Council of State has advised a number of cases. First of all, the Council of State is not in favour of stacking procedures, for example a pending procedure and an adoption proposal. That is what the Council of State says: do not do both of these procedures, but one of both. Well, we've taken over. The second is that the Council of State has a strong preference for advising, as usual, on an adoption proposal. The arguments are in line with that, as you call them. We have said of this: but we do not want to go for a double. We want to involve the Council of State at another time during that stage in order to reach an extension decision. Because if we consult the Council of State only with the adoption proposal, then the content of the opinion of the Council of State will no longer allow us to do so, at least not for that extension. So then we would actually like to hear the Council of State before hitting the Central Bank. This means that at that time we are consulting the Council of State in the legislative process. That is precisely why we are following the wish of the Lower House and, in my opinion, of the First Chamber to consult the Council of State. Only at the moment in the legislative process that you could do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u63	First of all: I took a look and the word I just used was indeed an adjective. For a moment I thought I was using a different term, but I did use the same term as that Minister Grapperhaus did yesterday. So it is indeed an adjective. I have another question, to stay with this block for a while. I also asked the Minister about the main indicator. During the debate on 25 May, the Minister made it clear that the number of hospitalisations is the leading indicator of the measures to be taken. Now there are actually all kinds of directions where there would again be many other indicators as a leading indicator. The question to the Minister is: can he confirm that the number of hospitalisations is still the leading indicator?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u64	It's actually the most defining indicator. I would like to come back to this in more detail in the second block and also in the third block, because that is also about reflection on the current situation, which your Chamber has asked for. But indeed, the number of hospital admissions is a very defining indicator. We have always said that the main objectives of the crisis response are to protect our vulnerable people, which is reflected in hospitalisations and to protect our care. The latter can also be seen in hospital admissions, because if hospital admissions increase, the other care from the hospital will press. Those two are actually the most obvious objectives we have. In addition, we want to keep an eye on the spread of the virus, but that is, of course, at the service of the other two main objectives. Over the last year and a half, we have added a fourth objective, namely to prevent the measures we are taking from causing disproportionate social damage. We are taking measures in this regard. That has not really changed, and that, as far as I am concerned, will not change in the future either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u65	We're already at block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u66	Actually, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u67	But the point remains that the measures that are now being taken, such as closing down the catering industry at 00.00 a.m., are not based on an increasing number of hospitalisations, because that number is still stable at the moment, or stablely low, I have to say. It's purely about the number of infections. Why does the number of infections suddenly apply? It is also the question of what exactly is meant by contamination, because there can also be false positives among them etc. How is this assessed, including with regard to the measures to be taken? Because now the measures suddenly involve panic football: the infections are on the rise, so we are taking action. Instead, you can also say that hospital admissions remain stable low. If you apply this consistently, you could say that we are not going to take measures based on the number of infections, but we are looking at the number of hospitalisations for a sec. Because the latter would be the leading indicator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u68	I'll come back to that in great detail, otherwise we're gonna mix things up. I'll come back to that in detail in the block... You have asked a lot of questions about reflection on the current situation and how we should weigh it. I will come back to your question in detail. I understand the background to your question. This is a very good example of how to weigh indicators relative to each other. But that is without prejudice to the answer I have just given: the purpose of our crisis response is essentially unchanged, namely to protect vulnerable people and to protect our concerns from overload. That remains the goal for the coming period. That's what this second block is about as far as I'm concerned. If we try to flush the film forward for the next six months, what is needed for dike monitoring and measures, and their legal design? That was Mrs De Boer's question in particular, and I thought that Mrs Prins' questions were also relevant. We are now in a transitional phase. You could say that we ended up in that, but at the same time we also ended up in unknown territory. We have been through the epidemic phase, in which we had to steer very strongly towards preventing major outbreaks that would put the care in trouble and hit vulnerable people. We are increasingly protected by vaccination, but you cannot yet say that we have actually completed the epidemic. You can only say that we are beginning to enter a transitional phase, on our way to an endemic phase. But all experts say: be careful that you think you're already there, because we're really in terra incognita. That has to do with a number of things. An important uncertainty is the mutations. We are looking at the delta variant in particular, but we are going to see the entire Greek alphabet. There's a lot of letters in there. One variant after the other will light up the head. That's just evolution at work. We shouldn't be very panicked about that or startled very much, because that's just the way it is. But the question is, of course, always: do the vaccinations adequately protect against the mutations that will occur? The second question, which concerns a huge risk factor, is: what exactly is the level of our vaccination rate and what is its homogeneity? The altitude everyone understands: with a more contagious virus, you have to have a higher vaccination rate. But its homogeneity is also decisive, because the vaccination rate should not only be on average high in the population, but in every group and neighbourhood. That's why we're working hard to get there. The third question is: what is the rate at which immunity gained, either after infection or after vaccination, is reduced? And if so, under which target groups does immunity decrease? This is a very important risk factor in the direction of autumn. This also determines the need to work with booster vaccines and so on. I can go on like this for a while. What I need to mention for a moment is the transmission inhibition after vaccination. It's incredibly decisive. Let's hope he's gonna have 85% of the people vaccinated. This also means that 15% of people are not vaccinated. The extent to which they will be exposed to the virus really depends on the transmission inhibition after vaccination. Of course, we know something about that, and these are not just gloomy reports, but we also know that transmission inhibition is not 100% after vaccination. In short, we know that the virus will also continue to circulate this autumn and that people are still susceptible to the virus. Those are the people who have not been vaccinated but also the people who have been vaccinated but do not have enough immune response to actually be protected. The extent to which these people become ill depends to a large extent on their age and other risk factors, but we know that unvaccinated people occur among all age groups and we know that people with weak immune responses in particular belong to the most vulnerable group. In short, we are certainly not off the hook in the autumn, and we have to build the dike monitoring further by working very well on an intensive system of monitoring. We'll do that through germ and sewage surveillance. We built a very nice system for that. The second trail of dike surveillance is everything we do with testing and tracking. This will also become an increasingly complex task, as society is getting more and more involved, because clusters are growing. The BCO outbreak target is therefore even more CSI work than it already was. So you're really gonna have to set up a completely different kind of BCO. The third track is vaccination. In all neighbourhoods among all target groups we will have to look very carefully for how we overcome any hesitations there, how we overcome traditional hesitations there but also current hesitations based on all kinds of disinformation or disinterest because people think: I am not really at risk for that virus, so I can afford not to be vaccinated. I think you should be honest: with the infectiousness of the current delta variant and the extent to which it really gets back on its feet, it's actually, if you're being very honest with people, having the choice between vaccination or accepting that you're getting sick at some point. The question is when is that, but I'm sure it is. Because you know that now, my appeal is: protect your own health, protect each other's health and protect the freedoms that we were just regaining with each other and, of course, want to preserve. So that's the honest story about vaccination. Finally, there are the measures which may be restrictive and which make the Twm necessary for the coming quarters. I think you've actually asked most of the questions about that. In particular, the question has been raised as to whether we will continue to extend this temporary law. For the time being, I think it would be wise to do so and, by extension, to see which article we no longer need. But you can't prolong a temporary law to infinity, can you? How long can something stay "temporary"? That is, of course, a fair question. The only question is, what do you get in return? You can of course convert the current temporary law into an additional article on the Wpg. Anyway, that doesn't really matter. That is actually just transferring the current article 58 to the Public Health Act. The real question that arises from this is how to make the current Wpg future-proof, so that it can be used not only for the current pandemic but possibly also for another pandemic. Honesty commands me to say that we're just not there yet. A series of evaluations will be carried out in the near future. They will also concern the legal side and, of course, the fight against crisis itself, the powers you need in a crisis and the structure of the crisis approach, for example, the relationship between the department and the health services and between the department and the security regions. I think there's a lot to learn from that. This will be reflected in the evaluation carried out by the OVV, among others. That will have to be translated into the lessons you could draw for a Wpg that is truly future-proof. In short, in the previous debate, I have indeed promised Mrs De Boer and Mrs Prins that we will be able to send a letter before Christmas in which we will give our views on an adaptation of the Wpg for the current crisis. Suppose at some point you would like to get rid of working with the temporary law, which articles would you have to add to the Wpg for the time being in order to combat the current crisis? It is too much to ask for an actual legislative proposal to combat the next pandemic, i.e. a truly future-proof Wpg. I think you are asking us about that, because the evaluations will not be completed far enough to actually answer those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u69	Returning to the point the minister just made about the vaccination. Now I am certainly not opposed to vaccination, but the Minister apparently thinks that vaccination is willing to get up with raging one-liners like "dancing with Janssen." A lot of teenagers have been fooled into it and now they're at home coughing. I also said it yesterday in my first term: come up with a transparent and honest story. There are also side effects. There are scientific articles in which doubts are expressed as to whether it is wise to vaccinate children. I'm not saying I'm against it, but there are facts. It's all being thrown over us like a marketing campaign, which leads to mistrust among many people. My appeal to the Minister of Justice was made yesterday, so be honest and transparent about vaccination. That will probably increase the vaccination readiness rather than when you try to get people to the vaccination sites with slogans. I just wanted to give that to the Minister, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u70	I mean, that's what we do. We have said from the outset to everyone who wanted to hear it that vaccination is ultimately the way out of this crisis. I think this is undoubtedly true. If you look at where we are now compared to where we were a few months ago, you can only draw one conclusion, namely that vaccination works. That's one. Two is: we have always been criticized, and we have always communicated perfectly transparently about the risks involved. This has also led to consequences in our choices. I would like to recall the choices we made around AstraZeneca, when we saw that there was a very rare but nevertheless very serious side effect among 60-minners. At that time we made the non-uncontested choice not to offer AstraZeneca to 60-minners anymore. It was thought: oh, that will lead to a delay in the vaccination campaign. It wasn't. There was a lot of criticism, but we could afford that choice because we also had alternative vaccines for 60-minners, an alternative offer. That is why we have said: no, because of this very serious side effect, which is very rare but nevertheless very serious, we choose to make another offer to 60-minners. A lot of people said: you shouldn't, because now that you've said there's a possible side effect, that might discourage you from getting vaccinated. No, we said, it works exactly the other way around: just by being honest, you keep faith in the vaccination campaign. I think that's what turned out to be the case. The average vaccination rate in the Netherlands, which we can look forward to, according to the survey, it has to be achieved first, but according to the survey, the level of vaccination is also very high internationally, very high. In the end, I believe that this can also prevent us from doing something we all do not want, namely all kinds of indirect or even direct vaccination. In short, what you can expect from me is that at all times of the day, on all days of the week and in all weeks of the year I highlight the need for vaccination, at every target group, in every neighbourhood; absolutely. That is simply necessary, because otherwise we will not be able to get out of this crisis. The second thing you can expect from us is that we are perfectly open, transparent and honest about how we work and about the side effects, both of them, not only the effects, but also the side effects. It has to be a fair choice for people. The third thing you can expect from us is that at the end of the day it remains a choice for people. This is in line with our Constitution and with the mandate given to me by your Chamber. That's how I want to do my job, every day of the week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u71	That's good to hear, but slogans like "dancing with Janssen" don't go with that. I see in the press today that only one in three teenagers is still willing to be vaccinated. Does the Minister agree with me that statements about dancing with Janssen have had a counterproductive effect on vaccination readiness?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u72	No, I don't agree with you. That has a few reasons. I shall be so justified in the third block, but the first reason is that the choice not to apply a waiting period has been a choice we have made and have submitted to both chambers in the context of a very low level of contamination. The choice was then: do you or do not choose the waiting period; can you afford not to choose the waiting period? Indeed, if you could afford that, this will increase the attractiveness of the vaccine and the choice of the vaccine even further. Because what is the main incentive for young people to opt for vaccination? That's the way to freedom. We know that from all kinds of behavioral research. For older people, it's to protect themselves. For a lot of people, it's also to protect each other. But for a lot of young people, it is mainly to protect their freedoms. I understand that, too. I think it's very good and sensible to appeal to that. When it comes to the willingness to be vaccinated among teenagers, we see that the surveyed vaccination readiness is quite high. It is 72%, according to the latest survey we have seen on this subject. But the extent to which the teenagers who would be prepared to vaccination have actually made an appointment remains behind. We learn that teenagers have a lot of questions, lots of great questions. That's why we say to all teenagers: let yourself be well informed. Yesterday, there was a very nice seminar from Utrecht University. You read about this in the newspaper....................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that at all the kitchen tables in the Netherlands this is just the right conversation to have at the moment: what is the need for vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u73	Finally, I have one question. Most teenagers were in bed sick last week and then the vaccination call came in. The vaccination also takes two weeks to get kicked in. Why did you take that risk? Why is that so fast? Do you agree with me that, in retrospect, this has been a serious error of assessment, which means that we are now going back from the endemic phase to the epidemic phase through the action of the cabinet? We are now turning into all kinds of very serious code red areas because of these mistakes by the Minister, because the Minister has said to the young people: go; we are opening up everything. That while the vaccinations had not yet been done or were not yet working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u74	I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u75	How could you have reached such a decision, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u76	Let me make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u77	I'll come back to that in a minute, because I've got...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u78	Minister, let me make a point of order. We are now, I believe, both looking ahead and discussing topicality. It's running through each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u79	It's getting a little messy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u81	Exactly. I really want to take a look ahead first. I think that's what you asked for. Well, let's talk about actuality in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u82	Back to block two: the look ahead. I have heard the Minister say: as I promised earlier, I will come up with a preview before December of how we can permanently adapt the Wpg to this epidemic; how can we integrate the Twm into the Wpg? You are right that our question actually saw on how to make the Wpg future-proof, also for other pandemics. I hear the Minister saying that he can't say that now because it requires the evaluations. I'm really curious if he can give me a little timeline for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u83	I would like to say the following about the law itself. Changes that respond to the current crisis may need to be made at some point because there is simply a limit to their temporality. We would like to outline this for Christmas so that we can have that debate with you. I have already promised the House of Representatives that in the progress letter in September we will also give an insight into what is going on in the evaluation. For example, there is the evaluation by the OVV, where we do not, of course, go over the timetable ourselves. There are further evaluations, which we would like to inform the Chamber when we expect them to come. I would like to assure you, in line with my commitment in the House of Representatives, that in September you will be informed of all the evaluations that are under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u84	The follow-up question is, of course, a question which may not yet be answered when these evaluations are being carried out. Perhaps you could take that question with you in September and give us some kind of timeline of what we are going to do with these evaluations and how long that will take.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u85	I would like to give you an example of why this can also be changed by subject. For example, we asked the Verwey-Jonker Institute about the resilience of the crisis, the pandemic resistance and the pandemic preparedness of the GGDs. We have already drawn the following intermediate conclusion in this evaluation. If you would like to strengthen the pandemic preparedness and crisis management of the GGDs, you would do well to put a rural crisis and control unit, as we have now set up at the GGD GHOR, in crisis time with RIVM. That's the advice of the Verwey-Jonker Institute. I'm not gonna wait until mid-jubilee to take preparatory steps in that. A new cabinet will have to take the final decision. Of course, there are all kinds of financial consequences. But I do not think that we should wait until we have done the very last evaluation with all the steps we are taking in the context of pandemic preparedness. In short, there are several evaluations that can lead to action in the meantime. I'll outline that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u86	Thank you. Then Mr Van Hattem has something about 'direction of autumn', because that is now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u87	This will indeed have to do with the autumn. However, I would like to come back to the issue of vaccinations, particularly their voluntary nature and the prevention of vaccination. The Minister himself is actually putting a lot of pressure and compulsion on each other by vaccinating and becoming sick. Well, there's a little scary about that, isn't there? I also asked this question in my first term: can the Minister indicate what is going on with this compulsion? He clearly says: we do not come to an obligation, nor do we come to indirect coercion. Can he exclude measures such as those in Greece today, where people come into the hospitality industry only with a vaccination certificate, or as in France, where President Macron has ensured that people no longer enter cinema, catering, museum and even a shopping centre if they have no health certificate? Can the Minister rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u88	I have the information on the measures taken in France on the basis of the newspaper; I have yet to hear it back from our post there. The planned measures in France on 1 August have to be seen precisely in the light of the remaining vaccination rate. That's the point. We've had more conversations about group immunity along the natural path, so by building immunity through infection. It's gonna take forever. The health damage is endless. That is, of course, an unthinkable scenario. So group immunity you will have to build up along the line of vaccination. When we were still dealing with the wild-type variant, that was still somewhat manageable, given the R you could expect from it in a normal setting without measures. Then we got the alpha variant, the British variant. It was already significantly more contagious, which also meant that the vaccination rate, or the advanced protection level of vaccination plus infection, had to be much higher in order to actually achieve group immunity. Now that you see that the delta variant is estimated to be about 50% more contagious than the alpha variant, the British variant, you will have to achieve an even higher level of protection. That of course makes me look with some satisfaction at the already established vaccination readiness. It has grown very strongly in recent times. But if we really want to keep the virus underneath it, we need to get real for a while. There are always people at risk for that virus, namely people who have not been vaccinated and people with weak immune responses. We have to be honest about that. That's why I can't help but sketch that honest story. If you choose not to be vaccinated, assume that you will be exposed to that virus at some point. That's because the transmission inhibition isn't 100%. Also vaccinated people still participate in the transmission of the virus. It will make them less ill themselves. In any case, the risk of hospitalisation after complete vaccination is very low. By the way, it is not zero, but it is very small. The chance that we will no longer find ourselves in all these restrictive measures, the chance that we will not have to resort to tedious measures in terms of "force"............................................................................................................................................................................................. Because I'm very much in favour of the voluntary road.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u89	That is a very detailed explanation, but my question is actually very simple. We now see that, at European level, other European Member States, such as Greece and France, are taking increasingly less and less voluntary measures. Direct and indirect coercion is applied. Should I therefore conclude that the Minister is not going to rule out the possibility that similar measures will be taken here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u90	Minister, will you give me a concise answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u91	I think I've been very clear about that before. We don't choose mandatory vaccination. Nor do we opt for an indirect vaccination obligation. We don't even choose the duty to prove you've been vaccinated. When designing the CoronaCheck app, we have chosen that you can get the green check mark in that app in different ways. That's the policy line of the day. Meanwhile, we do see the increasing need to achieve the highest possible vaccination rate. Please, let's do this in a voluntary way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u92	Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u93	It is clear that measures need to be taken once in a while. We have also learned that a measure must be enforceable. Enforcement has, of course, been greatly suspended in recent times. What are you going to do about that in the future? What proposals are there to make the measures you are introducing more enforceable and to make enforcement more stringent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u94	In my view, we discussed this very extensively in the legislative proposal on quarantine, because the Council of State was also critical of this. We have also said that no law is 100% enforceable. That doesn't work that way, of course. But the chance of getting caught must be real, otherwise there will be no effect of enforcement. That's what we're seeing at quarantine duty. We worked hard on that. I sincerely believe that at the moment we are in the situation that the prospect of quarantine from high-risk areas is now real. That was hard work, but here we are, I think. For example, what we are seeing now is that there is a major challenge to maintaining the 1.5 metres. We must be honest about this: we cannot put a police officer next to every citizen. We don't want that at all. Of course, we also want people to take their own responsibility. If the 1.5 meters are important, we can't look at the mayor and say, "You take care of it for us that we maintain that 1.5 meters." No, we're really gonna have to do that ourselves. Meanwhile, we expect mayors to really intervene if, for example, part of the catering industry does not pay sufficient attention to this. That's what they expect, of course. I will come to the point of access tests later, because perhaps your question about this will be referred back to the topical and urgent debate. Of course, enforcement is important, but so is our own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u95	Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u96	Sure. A question about the introduction of the quarantine obligation. If it's all right, you haven't even checked 400 people so far. You have made agreements with the municipalities that up to 150 people may be forwarded or that notifications may be forwarded to the municipalities. Is that even effective? You talk about thousands of people and then I wonder if 150 people a week aren't too low?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u97	Enforcement is something else. Of the people who board an aircraft, 100% are checked for compliance with the test obligation. They shall also be checked for the completion of the quarantine declaration. Then those quarantine certificates will be taken at the airport. They're headed to the call team. The call team's calling all these people. Thousands of calls have been made. We've also increased the call team's capacity to about 500 calls in one day. Then it turns out that most of those people are happy home. So compliance with that quarantine obligation is even more important than enforcement, and sometimes you need enforcement in order to achieve that compliance................................................................................................................................................................ In many cases, therefore, people are simply very faithful in complying with that quarantine obligation. Then there is a part that doesn't answer and after repeated calls doesn't answer either. That goes on to enforcement. In addition, there is a part where it is obvious... Well, if you hear all kinds of Ikea sounds in the background. People don't usually live in the Ikea. This enforcement is being used, and that has led to dozens of fines. In short, it is of course a staged system, but I think we have set up the system in such a way that we can say: yes, the chance is real.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u98	I just said "finally," Mr. Karakus, but you want to ask me one more quick question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u99	Finally. My question was whether the Minister could see that? Is it gonna get any tighter? What additional measures is the Minister going to take? The fines the Minister is talking about are 46 fines. So that's what I'm saying to put it into perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u100	Still, you know, it's not about the number of fines you're handing out in the end. It is, of course, a question of whether the measure is actually being complied with. Is that quarantine obligation being complied with? We are not on earth to give people as much fines as possible, but to ensure that they comply with laws and regulations. A real chance of getting caught is important for that. In order to ensure a real chance of catching, we have already intensified enforcement at 100% when boarding an aircraft. It's 100% controlled. Then the quarantine statements are taken and a lot of calls are made. We've intensified the call team. Then we continue the calls to maintain to the municipalities. It's already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u101	I see Mr Raven. Minister, let me see how far we are for the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u102	We're a little bit on the sidelines of the preview. Because I still have to do everything I can about vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u103	I had the feeling that you might have already dealt with the question block 2 and part of block 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u104	No, that's not convenient, Mr. Chairman. I really need to reflect on the current situation, but first I want to finish the preview of the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u105	Is it not better to give the Minister the chance to finish that first, and then perhaps post the other interruptions after Mr Raven has put his interruption in place? Is that an idea that we're gonna let the minister finish that? I don't see any protests. Mr Raven, any short questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u106	Yes. I've been thinking all along: am I interrupting or not? But it was about vaccination and the direction you choose in the next six months. The measures, in particular the measures taken in recent weeks, which will undoubtedly apply in the future, include those who have been vaccinated. And I hear you very enthusiastically say all kinds of positive things about vaccinees and vaccinations, and that story has also been constantly told and defended with verve, so that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u107	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u108	My question then, Mr President, is why should the vaccinees be covered by the new measures? Under Article 22 of the Constitution, there is no reason to believe that they pose a health risk to this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u109	This has to do with the fact that transmission inhibition, i.e. the extent to which vaccinees can also contribute to the transmission of the virus, is not 100%. This means that there is always a residual risk when people are vaccinated, in order to contribute to the circulation of the virus. That's one reason. A second reason. For example, I sometimes hear: couldn't you do lockdowns just for people who haven't been vaccinated yet? Well, how are you gonna check that out? Of course, it's not on people's heads that they've been vaccinated or not. Or a mouth cap obligation only for non-vaccines. Yeah, but that's also true of course that you can't see that in the supermarket. So you can only do a number of measures if you do them with each other; that's one reason. And the second reason is that people who have been vaccinated can actually make another sick. That's the uncomfortable truth we have to relate to. Those people will not become so sick themselves that they actually get to the hospital. They can still experience a mild form of infection and are no longer so ill as to enter the hospital, but they can contribute to the transmission of the virus, because they still have the virus in their throats, towards people who, for example, are unvaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u110	Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u111	Yes. I think I read that the transfer is very limited after two shots and after full vaccination. We have to be careful, and I have said this more often for false accuracy. We need to make the "great steps, quick at home," not the very small details, which are not really a danger to the big picture. What we're actually doing right now is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u112	What's your question, Mr. Raven? There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u113	Let us include the vaccinees in all these measures. And it is absolutely possible to make a distinction in that, in the sense that everyone has a ticket or an app to check whether or not you have been vaccinated. That information has already created itself, and why not use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u114	I think Mr Van Raven is a little too optimistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u115	Mr. Raven. Not "Van Raven."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u116	Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u117	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u118	Excuse me. "Van Raven" would have been nice, too, I guess. Would've been classy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u119	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u120	I think Mr Raven is a little too optimistic about the degree of transmission inhibition. There are a lot of different estimates of that; let's just be honest about that. And we still can't say for sure. But there's no sign of sterile immunity. So when someone who has been vaccinated steps into a room, loses sight of the 1.5 meters and encounters someone who, for example, has a very weak immune response and actually does not respond adequately to the vaccine, it is possible for someone who has been vaccinated to make another sick. Of course, when we are vaccinated to a very high degree, immunity is such that the chance the virus has to jump over is much lower. So as we are vaccinated to a higher degree, the risk of spreading will be much lower at all. Yes, it is. That's the collective sum. But individually, even when I'm vaccinated, I can still... Suppose you had a bad immune response, you probably don't, but if you did, I could still make you sick. And that means that you're really gonna need some more action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u121	Thank you. Then I suggest that we now let the Minister start the third block, and also conclude it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u122	Yes, but I still have a few questions to answer in this context, because they are also about vaccination. But I can do that rap. And then we go to the reflection on the current situation, because that is where you want to go so badly that I think that some parties are going to be busy now in the establishment of the next list of candidates for the Lower House. Then the curfew: could it still be useful? In any case, we have not come to that conclusion in the case of the extension as it stands. We have just removed the curfew as an instrument from the toolbox, given the increased vaccination rate and the proportionality weighting that we are dealing with, especially when extending. That is why we have considered that we will no longer need that curfew. By the time we get to deal with an escape mutation, a breakthrough mutation that really doesn't care about the vaccinations, we'll come back with an urgent legislative proposal among our poor. But this curfew in this law we'd like to drop. Is the government prepared to make public the country's attorney's opinion on curfew arrangements? Thank you. I'm getting some cookies, chairman, because breakfast was so long ago. Otherwise, I'm gonna lose my touch at some point. We shouldn't want to. Is the government prepared to make public the country's attorney's opinion on curfew arrangements? We've already done that. Then the vaccination questions. In the end, of course, we are only really protected if we are not only protected in the Netherlands, but also outside. Can we invest more in vaccination for the rest of the world? What does this contribution of the Netherlands actually look like? The cabinet has decided to donate a lot. It might well be, depending on how many booster vaccines we need ourselves in the autumn, that by Christmas we donated more than we put in our own upper arm. That might be the case. I can't really see that yet, but at least we have already started that donation, especially to those countries with which we have a special band, in the first place of course Suriname. Things didn't go well in there. We really needed vaccines there, so we have already made a bilateral donation available. The same story applies to Cape Verde. That was also necessary to do, also for an epidemiological reason. For both the Surinamese community and the Cape Verdean community there is a lot of traveling back and forth. If you want that to happen safely, you do well to help those countries vaccinate. Indonesia has also appealed to us. Well, that's so big of a population of 270 million, I think we can't keep up with that, but we have promised a large donation of 3 million vaccines, because we think it's necessary. Those are the countries with which we have a very intense bond. COVAX is the UN initiative for distribution. They also ensure the prioritisation. To COVAX we said that we would like to make our surplus of vaccines available via COVAX. The first COVAX donation of half a million vaccines is already on the table. That's what we're gonna do. We will always make our surplus available to COVAX. I now reject most of the other bilateral requests. We do it bilaterally when we really have an intensive relationship with other countries. We will divide it through COVAX if we simply want to follow the United Nations' and WHO's priorities. The expectation is that we will donate at least 20 to 25 million in this year. When we look at the purchase for 2022 and 2023, we see that we have now bought a lot of vaccines. We assume that we should at least have stock available if the advice comes that we should have our entire population completely re-vaccined from 12 years of age onwards. That actually means that you have to do about 15 million people and therefore need 30 million vaccines a year. We then bought in 2022, with all techniques and multiple suppliers. This also applies to 2023, with a number of vaccines that we still have to adapt or adapt. We have also agreed with vaccine suppliers that they will adapt their vaccines to the very latest state of the mutations. In short, we are set for next year and for 2023, but in such a way that we have probably bought too much again. We will make that available to COVAX again. This, of course, also means increasing production, because by making all these pre-investments, production capacity can be scaled up. Of course, that helps the most to help the other countries as well. I think this is also an answer to Mr Van der Voort's question about participating in all kinds of international initiatives relating to vaccination. Then the Kuzu motion on registration of vaccination status. Yes, of course it is necessary! To be honest, I was surprised that this was not yet settled centrally. I think you might also be able to contribute to this in your other capacity, but at least the Cabinet is keen to do so. We have asked RIVM to organise the process with the hospitals to arrive at a central registration. We just need it as epidemiological steering information. What measures are being taken to prevent the mutation that is now present in Suriname? Suriname is currently designated as a very high risk area. That means that all travelers from outside the EU who come from there are faced with rather high thresholds to get here at all. A number of exceptions make it possible to come here, but there is an EU entry ban for Suriname with a negative travel advice. If you are already covered by one of the exceptions, the double test requirement and the quarantine obligation apply. As stated earlier, there is a real chance of getting caught, so that also applies here. A number of people did not build up resistance to vaccination, was raised. We have just talked about this; that is right. What does the Minister intend to do about this? Shouldn't care workers be able to prevent vulnerable clients from coming into contact? In our view, the existing laws and regulations provide sufficient tools for employers to take action. After all, every care institution has a duty to regulate good and safe care under different legislation: the Wkkgz, the Wmo and the Youth Act. Workers cannot be required to be vaccinated. At the same time, it may be that not taking vaccination creates an unsafe working environment and potential risks. Under the right of instruction, an employer may impose certain rules if there is a clear interest in them and if that is proportionate. In this context, an employer may decide to allow workers to work with personal protective equipment only or to allow employees who state themselves that they do not want to be vaccinated to carry out other work if there are risks to safety. There must be no compulsion or duty, because there is no legal basis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u123	Just a minute. Mrs De Bruijn, it was also your own request to do the interruptions at the end of the block. If you do not want to do so, you should do it now, but you have just announced that you are delaying the interruptions to the end of the block. So you can also see how difficult it is to hold the Chamber itself to it. I'm gonna give the minister a chance to finish the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u124	I have two very limited questions, Mr President. The PVV asked a question about the registration and the LSP, the National Switchpoint. How does the statement in the letter relate to the debate on 25 May? Is the registration going well? On 25 May we said that vaccination registrations are there, but still need to be introduced in the central registration system CIMS and in the general practitioners' systems. The observation in the letter is about something else, namely whether the general practitioner information systems can also be a direct source for the CoronaCheck app. The GGD system is. With the general practitioner systems we tried that, but it was not possible. The only technical solution was found to be the LSP, but there is no basis to retrieve the data via the LSP. The LSP did not appear to offer any possibility, but the GGD systems did. So we have another option for the general practitioners. They may enter their data in the CIMS. Then CIMS is consulted for the CoronaCheck app, not the basic registration system of the general practitioners. Then there's the central registration... oh, we talked about that. Then this was my second block, including the vaccination question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u125	I have a very short question. You were absolutely right about asking questions at the end of the block, but it seemed as if we had ended up in the block of varia. But that's okay. I have to switch back to the subject myself. It was about care workers who have not been vaccinated and the question of what employers can do to take measures so that they do not get in direct contact with each other. For this, employers must have information about who has been vaccinated or not. That's where the crux is. I don't want to be forced to vaccinate, but that's where the crux is. The question is, what else can we do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u126	That can actually be in a bit of an indirect way. You are absolutely right: as an employer you want that information. At least, as the ultimate responsibility for the quality of care, you want it. Then, as an employer, you shouldn't actually ask your employees. Of course, you can put in the company doctor for that. It is often possible to have the company doctor assess whether the setting in which work is to be considered a sufficiently safe setting. The company doctor has that confidentiality. That's how it's done. That is actually a bit of a bypass to get out of the knot between the employer who is allowed to ask the question, but should not require answers, and the confidentiality that a company doctor naturally has. It is a bit circumstantial, but it is certainly possible to take action in this way. We are, of course, in permanent conversation with employers about whether the current setting offers sufficient opportunity. But I always have to do with the legal reality in the Netherlands that we cannot impose a vaccination obligation. Nor do I think that the majority in both chambers would be prepared to do so if I were to follow the previous statements on that point. That means we just have to deal with it practically. An employer must therefore use the trust doctor's bypass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u127	I'm just looking at the minister and his agenda. We started this debate especially last night because you are having a European discussion tonight on a valid matter. We now have an hour before this debate. Then I'm gonna have to suspend. Then we have two hours before the rest of this debate this afternoon. If that does not work, we will have to continue this debate at 7.15 p.m. tonight. I know that this is difficult for you, so I would also ask Members to save the number of interruptions where possible for your second term. I would, of course, like to give you the opportunity to place the interruption. But we're getting a little stuck with time. If you can save things for your own second term, that would of course be appreciated. I shall now give the floor to Mr Raven for one question, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u128	Yes, Mr. Chairman, equality is very important to me. For example, there are Members of Parliament who are all entitled to the same speaking time, but some Members of Parliament always have a little more speaking time than others. It seems that this is also covered by equality. I would like to return to the Minister's suggestion that I might be a little too enthusiastic about the degree of vaccination and the problems that may arise. I've been looking up something on the Internet in a short time. For example, there is the message "New study proves: vaccination prevents transfer of coronavirus." It was in Het Parool on April 1st. The Health Council page says about the transfer: "Some studies have now been published that show that vaccination against COVID-19 also reduces the transmission of the virus from one person to another. A further study has to be carried out."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u129	What's your question, Mr. Raven? This is a repeat of your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u130	If this is the burden of proof and if the state of the art is that there are no major problems to be expected, then my question is to leave the vaccinees out of the scheme in the next six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u131	The Minister, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u132	You're too excited again. I always like enthusiasm, but at this point we really need to take a look at the state of science. That is what very varied studies are coming out of. There are studies that say that transmission inhibition is considered to be very high. There are also studies that say: well, all that remains to be seen. Of course, we now have a delta variant among us that turns out to be a lot more contagious. This may lead to other conclusions. In short, we must indeed follow the latest state of science. Unfortunately, the latest state of science is that there is no such thing as sterile immunity to the corona virus and that you still estimate the residual risk of transmission at 20%, 30%, 40%. Let's just calculate the 20% of the residual risk of a variant that is 50% more contagious than the alpha variant. Then you come to settings that are still quite vulnerable among vaccinees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u133	Mr President, I can answer a question. It's about autumn and vaccinations. More and more people are asking themselves the question, and also to me the question, whether it is necessary to get a third shot in the autumn. What are the thoughts on that? Especially because there are indications that for people with poor immune response, a third shot can be very useful, but perhaps for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u134	Sure. We receive the advice on this at the edge of the autumn, after the summer, from the Health Council and the OMT. We are at least ready to organise and supply the vaccinations, but we make the choice for who gets the booster on the basis of the advice of the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u135	For my part, too, there is one specific question. I have heard the Minister about his desire to get the vaccination rate as high as possible. We know there's a group of objections. It has a great deal of difficulty because the development of vaccines involves the use of aborted foetal tissue. Could that problem be removed? Then you could profit there, so to speak. What are the possibilities there? Can we offer this choice with the guarantee "this vaccine does not involve this'? What else is there to bring in?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u136	At least what helps is if you don't put it this way. Janssen himself formulates it as using a human cell line. I think that's already great help in the ears of the conscientious objectors. That's one. Two. It is true that we come from the situation where the 'picking what the pot' was in the situation where we can make much more freedom of choice possible. Of course, we've already done that with the people who use AstraZeneca. We give them the opportunity to get pricked with Pfizer. Pfizer is a MRN vaccine. There's no human cell line involved in that at all. One of the vector vaccines involves a human cell line. The other vector vaccine, AstraZeneca, involves a chimp adenovirus as "basic technology" to develop a vaccine. In addition, we have the protein vaccines. All three vaccines have their own characteristics. I have indeed learned in the past year that medically-ethically you can look at this in a different way over and over again. We're gonna have to relate to that. So we are now happy, because this scarcity is getting a little bit past, in the situation that we can actually give people freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u137	Then I suggest we start the reflection block on actuality. I would ask you to deal with this in a somewhat concise manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u138	I'm gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. I think we can do that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u139	I propose to Members to place the interruptions at the end of this block? Agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u140	Maybe one sentence about that. The main dish of today's debate was really the law. We did. The second was, in particular, the legal aspect of the preview: what then will be the follow-up to this crisis approach and what instruments will the legal basis require? That's the second block. I think we've had that. This brings me to the actuality, but also to the domain of the Dutch House of Representatives. I think we should just be honest about that, too. We also have the debate tomorrow, here with you, but with the House of Representatives, about the same topicality. That also means, I think, that we can avoid a duplication. However, I am also committed to doing something of that reflection that we did yesterday in the public sense, because I think it is important and you did not ask the questions for nothing either. What is the current state of the epidemic? We see the number of hospital admissions is low. Mr Van Hattem's point is simply justified. The number of hospital admissions is low, thank God. A little uphill, by the way, the last few days. I cannot give you the assurance that it will not continue in the next few weeks, because the models predict a considerable degree of uncertainty as to the extent to which current infections will eventually lead to hospitalisations. That also makes sense, because the infections are high at the moment. They have risen astronomically high and astronomically quickly over the past two weeks. The infection rates are so high that in a short period of time we have gone from around 500 positive test results to 10,000 positive test results one day. Well, we didn't expect such a rapid increase, we didn't expect it, we didn't actually see anywhere internationally. In fact, this raises the question of the extent to which these rapidly rising contamination rates do not go a little through the generations. Look, if they stay in the youngest generation, let's say between 15 and 30, then the expectation isn't that a lot of hospitalizations will come out of it. But who gives us a guarantee that that virus isn't going to walk through the generations after all? In each generation there is an x-percentage of people who have not yet been vaccinated. And in every generation, there's an x-percentage that has a weak-functioning immune system. So that means you can't say that the current contagion rates aren't going to lead to hospitalizations after all. The second is that you can not only have an intergenerational transfer but also a transfer in the neighborhood. We also know that there are areas in large cities where vaccination rates are significantly lower than the averages in the Netherlands and also what you would need to be effectively protected. That means that we could assume that the virus is going to walk through the generations but also through the neighborhoods. This means that the people who are not vaccinated or who have a weak functioning immune system are indeed at risk for hospitalisations. This means that the uncertainty is high in the models of RIVM, but we nevertheless have to expect that hospitalisations are going to increase somewhat. That justifies the measures we took last Friday. I think there is more reflection, because that is what you are asking for. What went wrong? That was the brief summary of a lot of questions that have been asked here. I would also like to say here what we said yesterday in a press release after the general affairs meeting. If you look at the moment of June 26th when the relaxations went in, all the signals were actually green. All meters were green, at the lowest level of risk, namely the level of risk. We had made that road map with each other in a situation even without any built-up vaccination rate. So we were actually all in the lowest level of risk, in terms of hospitalizations, that should be 12 in terms of ic intakes, that should be 3 in accordance with the Roadmap, and in terms of contagion rates. All the numbers, all the meters were green. That justified the choice we made. In fact, if you look at the weighting of proportionality, it actually makes sense. You have to take the measures necessary to control the epidemic, but if measures are no longer necessary on this basis, then you should not want to take them. Nevertheless, if it rises in two weeks, then you can only see that an error of assessment was made on 26 June. There's no other way. That must be the conclusion. Then the question is: but how? We made that decision and submitted it to the OMT. The OMT also considered this choice justified, with a number of reservations. I would like to comment on that, but the OMT has also considered that choice justified. It is then laid down in an arrangement and is attached to the Second and First Chambers. How did that error of assessment happen? I can now give some explanations for that, but I do not think we have finished the analysis. The first explanation we can give is that the effect of relaxation on our behaviour has been collectively underestimated. We underestimated what all these relaxations would do in one weekend with, for example, the catching up of young people. That's not a reproach. I like to add that, because we've all been young. So it is not a reproach to young people, but that catching up has of course been done. I think that was not just the case with young people. I think we all recognize that from our own environment. The 1.5 meters are no longer respected everywhere. We can see for ourselves how difficult that is. We said we're almost there, but we're not quite there yet. The "we're almost there" part is passionately embraced, but the part after the comma, the "but not quite, because we really have to maintain the 1.5 meters" is of course much less incorporated. Apparently, our communication hasn't helped us get that across properly, so I want to keep it with ourselves as a cabinet. I think it's important to say that in this way too. That behavior combined with a much more contagious variant, which was just coming up, has been a catalyst for a rapid spread. Our assessment of the wide range of access tests has contributed greatly to this. Some of you have pointed this out. That is absolutely true. We've tried testing for access in a very controlled setting. We first did it at the field labs and then applied it in a broader sense in a number of test settings, to test the system of testing for access. But, yeah, you gotta jump in the deep car sometime. In retrospect, we note that the jump was too big and it was too early to take that leap. In addition, there is a lot to note about the implementation of testing for access. I shall come back to that in a little more detail, because many questions have been asked about it. I think that the sum of those factors in two weekends has led to a huge acceleration of the emergence of the virus. What we have to do now is make sure that we get it back under control. Hence the foot on last Friday's brake, by saying: the nighthoreca closes for a while; there is no dancing at all, even with Janssen. We're just doing places where we're gonna work with tests for access. For the rest, the 1.5 meters apply everywhere. That is most obvious, and that is also the easiest thing for the municipalities to maintain, because that is of course also important. It's for the best. Why? Because the number of 10,000 infections, especially among young people, I believe that about 80% of them should go down as soon as possible, before those infections go through the neighbourhood or through generations. That number needs to go down as soon as possible. This must be reduced as quickly as possible. Are we sure we're over the hill? That 10,000 was for Saturday. Sunday and yesterday we had a lower number. But I am not sure yet, because of course we also have the Friday night of the press conference, when the measures had not been reversed. They didn't go in until Saturday. You really have to take into account that further infections might emerge from that too. So let's not think too soon that we're over the hill. That is why I emphasized yesterday: 'I would like to repeat today that I believe that everyone, not only the young people, who have been in high-risk contact in the last week, should also be aware of the next week, so just stay at home as much as possible and meet as few people as possible.' I also think that they should be tested, because that is the fastest way to pick out the infections and make sure that we get the group very much smaller again very quickly, in order to reduce the risk of walking through the generations and through the neighborhoods. That is the intervention we have made, and that is the reflection I would like to give in response to the many questions that have been asked. Then a number of questions were asked more specifically about testing for access. I think it's good to be more precise about that. Of course, we tried testing for access in a very controlled setting and then applied it in an uncontrolled setting. It is inevitable that you have to get out of the experimental corner somewhere and do things for the answer, but a number of aspects should have been weighed much more precisely. The first is the share of the catering industry compared to the whole number of tests. The expectation was that in the hospitality industry there wouldn't really be so much enthusiasm for working with testing with access; perhaps in the nighthoreca but not in the rest of the catering industry. But we have seen that the fairly wide scope of application, which we have made possible, has also been used. In this way that was not tried out in the test settings, which makes it especially the uncontrolled part. The second thing we have seen is that enforcement at the gate is incredibly important and that enforcement at the gate has not always been carried out as well. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's The stories about the controls at the gate are more than anecdotal. In addition, we've heard all kinds of stories, you've also quoted those of things that really aren't in the hook. Of course, you need to check the gate tight. Of course, shuffling at the gate shouldn't be. In the end, of course, it is impossible to put in place a system in which all of this is totally excluded, but it has to be much better than how it went. That could also mean that at any time you either really have to choose another device or that you have to choose a limitation of the scope of application. You have to be honest about it. Another point is the risk of false negatives at the gate. This also applies: in a controlled setting, that risk is not really that great. We have seen this in the sum total of all field labs and the test settings of testing for access. But if the scope of application is very wide, with very large numbers of tests per weekend, then also a limited percentage of false negative results is quite high. That can then lead to spreading events. In short, we have a lot of lessons to learn from how we want to proceed with that access testing. We have now very much reduced it to a very limited application of it, namely only for placed events, I have to say: replaced activities. That is a very small application. What we need to do is to use the next few weeks to draw the lessons that are to be drawn: what does it do in relation to the delta variant, to what extent and numbers can we actually afford false negative results, given the width of the application range? What does this also require for enforcement at the gate? Therefore, it first requires compliance by catering companies, but then it also requires enforcement by municipalities in order to ensure that this is actually done in a safe manner. For once again: with retroactive effect you have to observe that the wide application of testing for access has been an error of assessment and a catalyst for the spread of the virus. This means that this other reflection is also necessary, namely that a model of the RIVM is not built on it either. In addition, I think the behavioral component should be carefully considered. Have we taken sufficient account of this in the model at RIVM? But this is another thing, namely spreading events: let's say in two weekends dozens of spreading events anyway. Can this be modelled at all, or can it not be modeled at all, and should this therefore require caution when abandoning measures? In short, around the application of testing for access there are a lot of lessons to be learned and we also need to draw them before we move on. So how do we proceed in the coming period? Mrs De Boer asked about the letter from early July, 1 July even, and that is not so long ago: is everything still in it? I would prefer to say "yes" and fortunately the answer is also: yes, that's for sure, but with an extra frown in the eyebrows when it comes to testing for access. I think we need to look more closely there: where could we apply all this? We're working towards August 13th, the First Council of Ministers after the summer. On August 13th we want to decide whether or not we can let go of the 1.5 meters. Well, at least what the last two weekends have shown is no. Anyway, then we're back to the vaccination rate. With the first shot we hope to stand at 85% and with the second shot at about 80% among the 18-plussers. Then we are on with the vaccination rate and with all the infections we may also have a higher level of protection by then. Let's make that choice at the time. Prior to that, let us be advised by the OMT, which, in my mind, meets on August 9th. We will, of course, also talk about this with the security regions to hear how they look at it and with education, because that is an important social sector that is very dependent on whether or not you can let go of the 1.5 metres. If we are able to let go of the 1.5 metres, then the need to work with tickets will actually disappear, but I am not sure, especially not on the basis of the scare in the legs of the last two weeks. Let's actually learn our lesson and not take a hink-step-jump on the way to the exit. We have to face up to the fact that we haven't arrived yet and that the virus is still lurking treacherously. That brings me to another question from Mr Janssen, I believe, but it could also be Mr Karakus. Because of all the left-wing cooperation, I always tend to confuse you. The question is: was there really enough counterpower? I believe you used that word. That's interesting. If we turn the film back ourselves, we can see that we have taken quite a long run on the way to the decision we have made. That decision entered into force on 26 June. We have said that if we are actually at the lowest level of contamination levels on that 26th June, in terms of hospitalisations and ICI admissions, it should be possible to take steps 4 and 5 of the open plan together. We submitted this to the OMT: do you see it that way? "Yes, that's how we see it." Then we actually formulated that step: what does this combined step 4 and 5 of the open plan look like? What does the application of testing for access look like? Or should I say, what does it look like to work with tickets? We have been advised on this. That's the first part. Not only the OMT, other advisors have been involved. That's the first thing. We then incorporated this into a ministerial arrangement, which has been put forward in the Second and First Chambers. It is customary for the Lower House to choose its intervention. Zero out of the 18 political groups voted against. We actually had much more of the discussion about whether you could not go much further in the short term: in the autumn it might cause problems again, but could it not go much further? Read the papers back from then, from a few weeks ago. That was also the discourse at the time: what could actually go wrong in the short term? That was the discourse we were in back then. This is without prejudice to any comments, for example on the 24 hours and the 40 hours. We have to be honest about that. Indeed, we have chosen deliberately for the 40 hours before. That had a practical background: otherwise you will have to deal with an extreme peak in the test streets on Thursday and Friday. The question is whether this is not very inefficient and whether the epidemiological profit is such that you can afford that inefficiency. International is also always held for 48 hours, so we thought: 48 hours minus the duration of the event is 40 hours. It's true that the OMT saw it differently. It is also true that we have considered this justified given the low epidemiological values, i.e. the low level of contamination. Now that we see that the rate of infection is rising, we have immediately turned those 40 hours into 24 hours and made the scope of testing for access much narrower anyway. That's one element. The second element in which we have operated, by way of derogation from the advice of the advisers, is the waiting period after vaccination. I think it is important to underline that the OMT has never advised on this. However, we have had occasional consultations with consultants on this subject, but especially in the context of travel. That was about the point: if we go green in general throughout Europe, is the waiting period necessary, given the low level of contamination? In the context of travel we have not considered that necessary given the low level of contamination. In order to create clarity in working with vaccination certificates and tickets for travel and access tickets, we have said: let us draw a common line. But we got back from that even faster. When we saw only a little bit that the rate of infection was beginning to rise, we said: we should not do that anymore. That's a second element. For example, there are other elements in which we could have made a different choice. Again, I would like to emphasise that we have made an error of assessment. Because otherwise we could never have been where we are now compared to a few weeks ago. In the context of the counterpower question I notice that at that time the discourse was really different. That was much more: if you look where we stand, with all the signals on green, this is really justified. We really underestimated that, with each other. Mr. Chairman. That is the essence of the reflection I would like to make on the basis of many questions. I realize that I have put together a number of questions, but I have done so consciously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u141	Then I would like to give the opportunity for a few brief interruptions. Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u142	I have two points. The first is that in the analysis of where it went wrong, I still miss the assessment of the scientific value of the field lab experiments, which have been the basis for testing for access. My question is whether, in fact, my advice to the government is to have an independent scientist look at how these experiments have been set up and carried out and to form an opinion on them and to include them in the analysis of the course of events. The second question. If I listen carefully to the Minister, he says that testing for access is now so widespread and there was still so much virus in society that it did not work like that. An upper limit is then looked at, above which you cannot actually use the test for access anymore. My own question was about the lower limit, but perhaps the Minister will come to that. When is it so little that you don't have to use the test for access anymore? That is my question: how do we proceed in the definition of the margin, of the bandwidth to allow the testing for access to be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u143	That's a very interesting illustration of a change of the discourse inside grab him for a month. Indeed, a month ago, we had the discussion here on the bill on working with tickets: if the Netherlands continues to slide into greenery, is it still necessary to work with tickets at all? That's when I promised that we'd set the lower limit. Then I set the lower limit. I have no other answer to that on the day you can get rid of the 1.5 meters. That's also the day you can get rid of testing for access. In addition, I left the possibility open to still work with tickets in very risky settings behind the front door at the time we release the 1.5 meter generic. This concerns, for example, nighthoreca or intensive events, where a lot of people sit together. That was the discourse then. I think you'll have to determine the upper limit as well. I think one of the lessons of the past two weeks is next. If the prevalence among young people is high enough, the risk of a false negative rash is higher, and hence the risk of working at 40 hours instead of 24 hours. Then you come to a sum of risks behind the front door that is actually not acceptable at all anymore. I think we really should learn those lessons. So I'm just gonna have to come back to those questions after the summer. Of course, we don't get down on those lessons under the desk. We are certainly going to do that with scientists, who were also involved in those field lab events. Those results have always been submitted to the OMT. So it's always been a step-by-step: you had the field labs, the results of which were submitted to the OMT and before the policy became, the OMT always cancelled the results or commented on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u144	Okay. If I understand the Minister correctly, the lower limit under which the access tests can no longer be used is the moment when the 1.5 meters are released. Well, that's clear. Only in the motion adopted here in this Chamber have we asked for it to be mentioned in values such as prevalence or any other value, and to make it clear in advance when that is. That answer has not yet been given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u145	That's right. In fact, I do not have an answer at the lower limit, nor at the, I think, upper limit to be redefined. I think we should come back to that after our decision on 13 August. I will also take this question explicitly into account in the lessons we have to draw from the access tests. The motion has been tabled, so there will be a reaction to it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u146	Finally, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u147	Finally. Of course, it's nice that it comes at a good time. On the other hand, you could imagine that there would be some kind of analysis, whether or not from the OMT, or from anyone, in which those considerations would be about how it could be done in a particular situation. Then there is a bit more hold for everyone in society about when that moment could come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u148	I share it very much. All I would add is that if you had asked me the question a few weeks ago, I would probably have given a more relaxed answer than I have given in the meantime after the shock of the last two weeks. The number of spreading events has just been really unhealthy. It wasn't modeling. That was obviously not foreseen by all of us and at the same time it is really reason to do things differently than we did. That therefore means that I will now give a more precise answer. I think it would be wise to draw lessons first with the experts and then bring them back to what you are asking. You want to know what is actually the lower limit of the need to work with tickets and what the upper limit is to be able to use them responsibly in terms of the level of contamination and the degree of risk appetite, including behind the front door.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u149	Then Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u150	I would like to thank the Minister for his reflections on the past two weeks. They lead me to the question whether the way we look at risks is good enough. I'm asking that question because I'm a beta man. I like models, but I also look at them philosophically. There is a huge danger of a model, namely that you are going to think that the model is the reality. At the basis of these models are two things: what is the infectiousness and how many contact moments are there within 1.5 meters? I also wonder if we should not make risk assessments in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u151	The models are even more sophisticated than that. The vaccination rate is, of course, taken into account as well as the level of protection you may assume after vaccination and after the infection, as well as the difference in the level of protection per applied vaccine in a given age group and the degree of risk you run in a particular age group. So I would like to draw attention to the multitude of factors in the models. They're almost endless. I think we should be blessed to know that we live in the country with one of the best modellers in the world, whose model is just being taken over by many countries. At the same time, we must always see the limitation of models. That's absolutely true. I recognize that very much. The behavioral component, the extent to which compliance may be assumed, I think is one of the mirrors the modellers should be looking into. That's one thing. Have we taken sufficient account of the catching-up behaviour shown not only by young people but by all of us? That's not a reproach, it's just a statement. That's what happens when you've spent a year and a half shacked up. Two. Is a model even suitable for predicting the sum of the perfect cocktail to become a catalyst of the delta variant in a good way? I think you have to accept for the latter that there's just a limit to what a model can do. But we will also have to answer that question with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u152	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u153	I think this is a very good answer. The only question I can ask is this. Just when there's a sum of factors that you're going to change, which makes models more difficult to predict, you can ask yourself whether you should organize more contradiction of critical groups from society in these kinds of critical things. I know I'm asking this question with the wisdom of afterwards. That's the only question I'm going to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u154	If you look at how we come to decisions, there is quite a balance in that. The OMT is about the epidemiological side. In the OMT, all disciplines in medical science are represented. That is one aspect. In addition, we have the Corona Behaviour Unit of the RIVM that advises more on the behavior side. That's a second element. A third element is that we let the planning agencies present the socio-economic and social effects for each decision. We also always account for this in the progress letters you receive. And when it comes to modelling, the models are, of course, peer-reviewed when scientific articles are published, and that's how colleagues look at it. In short, I honestly believe that we have organized or organized the contradiction on all these fronts. And yet we have to ask ourselves the question: hey, what have we overlooked in the last two weeks? Because shouldn't we have more contradiction? Have we missed a single red signal, where there were a lot of green signals, and have we ignored that? So indeed we will have to look again at that, whether we have also been sufficiently open to other signals. But that all advisors clearly advise, that moment I'm also a little over. And of course you can never take zero risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u155	In itself, it is an interesting discussion of these models and modelling, and what factors are being taken into account. Which brings me to the next question. Because I hear the Minister talking about the number of infections, but the Minister also calls on people to be more tested. I heard yesterday that the call was also made to young people who had been out, to be tested, even if they had no complaints. If you call on such a wider group to be tested, more people will come, more tests will come, and then the number of infections may also increase. Not every infection also means that there is disease or infection; that is a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u156	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u157	So my question to the Minister is: to what extent is it taken into account, if more tests are also called for and more people are also going to be tested, also because of holiday etc., how does that relate to the rising figures? Are you sure that factor is included in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u158	Well, look, anyway, we're in a situation where there's an alternating ratio between the number of positive test results and the number of hospitalizations. So that's the first thing we say to each other. The 10,000 of them today do not lead to the same number of hospitalizations as the 10,000 around Christmas. Fortunately, because we have been increasingly able to protect our vulnerable people and thereby prevent the care from becoming overburdened. So that's one element. At the same time, you have to want to know who has been infected in the last few weeks. Why? Because you need to get those people out with a fishnet, to prevent that virus from walking through the generations, walking through the neighborhoods. So you have to want those people to sit on the couch for a while, until they no longer pose a risk to the people who have not been vaccinated or those who have weak immune responses. And that was the reason for my call yesterday. You are right, by the way: that might well lead... Because I know a lot of test appointments have been made. I'm still being reported on that over the day, but I know there are a lot of test appointments made in response to my call. And that makes no doubt that you will see that this will also show more positive test results. Is that bad? No, that's exactly the point, because asymptoms can be quite contagious, and asymptoms can also meet the vulnerable person who is then at risk of being put in hospital again. In short, we just need to catch all the infected people right now, to make sure that they sit on the couch for a while until we have a much lower level of infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u159	Thank you. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u160	Well, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u161	You have already asked more than 25 questions in the event of interruption. Can you ask me another one?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u162	Right, Mr President, but how does the Minister prevent a self-filling prophecy from happening because it is going to work in the infection rates, and we are going to say, for example, that it is going to happen, so we also need to take additional measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u163	Thank you. That question is clear, so I would like a brief answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u164	In the proportionality regime, you must always be secure, but let's not be too relaxed about rising contagion rates at the moment, and at the same time keep thinking forever. There are no automatisms between the number of infections and the measures we take.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u165	Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the model. The Minister himself says: we have the best model in the world. Well, I assume he means Jacco Wallinga from the RIVM, Van Dissel's assistant. Well, this guy with his model determines... And I took a look: he's an agronomist; he's been promoted to the dynamics of seeds. Well, they probably have less will than teenagers. Look, a model is of course "garbage in, garbage out"; it's just what goes in. Does the Minister agree with me that the decision-making process is based too one-sided and too much on the models? And where's the sanity check? Why does no one in the cabinet say: look at what other countries are doing? They don't do what we do there. But according to the model, we can do it, so we'll do it. Where's the sanity check? It is also purely about intuition, as I mentioned in my first term. Where is the intuition to understand that, if you throw all that freely and also "dance with Janssen" and "you go but to the disco" yells... was that also in the model, by the way? Why isn't there a certain sanity check? Why is there such a theoretical operation behind these models? Apparently, that didn't work out well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u166	First of all about our model students in the Netherlands. Of course, they work with institutions all over the world. Our modelers in the Netherlands are leading, also in collaboration with other institutes around the world. That's one. Two. Models are always limited, of course. Each model is limited, whether it is an economic model or a behavioural intervention model, or a model that has to predict the course of the epidemic. The third is that these models therefore learn all the time, also because factors are adjusted. The factor behavior in the first wave was really quite different from in the second or the third wave, and possibly later in the fourth wave. The vaccination rate is, of course, a very different factor, also increasingly a different factor, to assess the impact of measures. We are now entering unknown territory. There are no longer so many countries that we can see how things are going to be, from the UK still a little, from Israel perhaps a little and perhaps from some countries in the Middle East. But there are not so many countries that we can overlook. No country can actually compare itself with the Netherlands, with its own population density and with its own stubbornness of people to comply with measures. That's always contextual. If we assume that models show us the way, we're not doing it right anyway. Models support decision-making. The same is true in the Netherlands. We ask for advice from the OMT. The OMT is supported by the results of the RIVM modelling. This modeling is peer-reviewed and continuously improved on the basis of the experience gained. Then you make a decision, based on the advice of the OMT but also on the behavioral unit and the planning agencies. In doing so, you also take into account the damage you can do with the measures you take. The cabinet then takes a proportionality test and submits the measures it intends to take to the Second and First Chambers. So let's not pretend we went ice in one night. We've gone ice over a lot of nights. That has led to where we stand. In short, that too was apparently no guarantee to prevent this level of contamination from getting back on the ground much too quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u167	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u168	Now I understand why you keep chasing the facts, because the model has to be right. The model is leading. Then you see the behavior later in the model and then you're too late. So my advice to the minister is: go for the curve and not always behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u169	I note, moreover, that it is not the use to mention and attack individual officials here by their names. I would also ask Members not to do so, because that is not courteous. The officials can't defend themselves. The Minister is responsible for the officials and is accountable to them. Minister, you had some other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u170	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u171	At least I have to suspend at 12.15 p.m. on a number of other matters, but maybe it'll work before then? I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u172	That, anyway. There were only a few of them. GroenLinks asks to send a schematic overview of the evaluation during the summer. I could do that in the September letter. Mr Van der Voort asks if I am prepared to pursue a pan-EU policy on those elements on which we also have European institutions. I think that ignores the different roles that we attach to European institutions. After an EEA decision, for example, we see that you, as well as the House of Representatives who listen to the same name, are in favour of simply doing what EEA says. That is not possible, because we always have our own considerations about the application of vaccination. Although you can come to the generic assessment that the risk benefit ratio of a vaccine is positive, the application in the Netherlands may indeed be different from what Europe recommends, for example because we have alternative vaccines to use. EMA is about admission to the European market. That is one thing, and of course our institutions have to work together, but EEA does not decide which vaccines we apply. It's up to us. I would like to keep it that way, because we can't just invest that responsibility somewhere else. By the way, there is much to learn from the cooperation of the Dutch institutions with the European institutions. That can really be more intense than we have done so far. I am also very much in favour of strengthening ECDC and EEA and of setting up HERA to improve Europe's pandemic preparedness. In the end, I think I can agree with you very quickly. What preparations has the cabinet made to deal with the question of covid and non-covid after the summer? Mr Van Ark has indeed written a letter about this. Although we do everything we can to prevent a fourth wave, care cannot wait and hope for the best. If there's another large increase in patients in the hospitals, we need to be prepared. The LCPS continues to spread covid patients and monitor numbers and capacity in hospitals. The ic capacity can be rescaled in itself, however undesirable it might be in view of the delayed care. The temporary policy framework for ensuring acute care and the framework of the FMS will of course remain in place. I think it is very good that LNAZ has indicated that together with the LCPS and the ROAZ it is going to see very well what lessons we can learn from the second and third wave, so that we are even better prepared for the fourth wave. For non-covid care, hospitals make plans to catch up as much care as possible. The aim is to ensure that all catching-up care is provided in 2021, with a possible extension to the first months of 2022. Also in order to live up to that expectation, it is best to immediately crush the virus, as we see it growing up among young people, in order to prevent this again from leading to excessive increases in hospital rates, which really lead to the delay of operations. That is also an answer to the questions that have been asked at all about regular care. Mrs De Bruijn asked: why didn't we specifically communicate earlier on about the risk of lung covid? The fact that I emphasized this last Friday is because it is said quite quickly: yes, but the hospital figures are not running, so why should we be so concerned about these young people? This is partly because of the fact that young people also encounter other people in society. However, if a large number of young people are infected, a certain percentage will be affected by it for a longer period. We don't know what percentage that is exactly, but when it comes to 10,000 young people showing a positive test result, a large proportion of those 10,000 were at least young people. I think it would be wise to take that into account. This is not necessarily a new policy objective; we should not make it a new policy objective. We have always said: let us protect vulnerable people and let us avoid overburdening care. People with long covid can indeed become vulnerable people. That's what we need to avoid. We just shouldn't want that unnecessary health damage. Mr President, that brings me to the end of the reply in the other block. I hope I've done everyone right; then it's just in time. How wonderful that would be!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u173	Thank you, Minister. I'll see if there's any more interruptions on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u174	I would like to have some more certainty about the ratio between the number of beds for covid care and regular care. In my contribution, I explicitly asked for a much sharper direction in this regard, and I say this with the wisdom of ex-post evaluation than we have done in the past. You yourself indicate that you want to realize the catching-up care this year and the first months of next year. In my view, this means that the number of beds we are going to occupy with covid, even if things happen that we do not want, must be substantially lower than in the first, second and third wave. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u175	Of course, Mr Van Ark has daily work to do on this, in consultation with the hospitals. There are a number of complexities here that I do not want to leave unnamed. The first is that a covid-ic bed simply requires a very intensive human commitment. That human commitment is indeed at the expense of where you could use it elsewhere. There's just a limit to the number of people you can actually use for the hospitals, especially in the ic and the intensive covid department. So that is one factor that is not so easy to solve. You haven't trained an I.C. nurse in a few months. That's one element. The second element is the following. I sometimes hear the reasoning: if everyone has been able to be vaccinated and have made that choice, then we must really choose a maximum number of beds that we are going to make for covid patients. That's too fast driving anyway. I think it also ignores the way people in care do their jobs. Maybe not in the majority, but in a large part of the people who end up in the hospital it has a lifestyle-related cause somewhere. However, that is often not a reason for the concern to say: then you should wait for the rest that has had a healthy walk of life. That's not the way we set up our care. We attach great importance to the accessibility of care. People who choke towards the hospital are just being helped with real and also with priority. It's gonna stay that way. So this is actually an additional reason to continue to press on with this epidemic, because we know that people who have not been vaccinated, but also those who have a weak immune response, are at great risk of getting into the hospital. That is also a reason to advocate vaccination every day of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u176	Mr. President, excuse me. I have put myself too short here. I didn't mean to say we should max it out so people don't come in. I meant that in the end we are taking measures to ensure that hospitals are not overloaded with covid patients, because that automatically means that regular care is deteriorating and that staff are ultimately overloaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u177	Yeah, and apart from the overload, the health damage also adds up. It comes from postponing operations that should also happen, perhaps not tomorrow, but at least next week or in three weeks. This is an inevitable result of the past few months. But don't let that be the inevitable result of the coming months. I think that's a fair call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u178	I had asked the Minister for two promises. He's gone into that, but I don't think he's clear enough. I would like to ask the Minister once again whether he can promise that before an KB for extension is discussed, both chambers will be informed in writing of what powers the government wishes to retain and which ones will lapse. That's my first question. I would like an explicit answer to that. Second. We have talked about the gap that may fall due to the word'repealed' in Article 8. I had asked the Minister if he was prepared to take another look at that and resolve it. Is the Minister prepared to do so? And can we be informed about this in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u179	The answer to the first question is yes. By letter, we will inform you of the content of the KB extension prior to the adoption of the KB extension, so that you can intervene. I'd like to look at the second, too, but not as a matter of urgency. There are also lots of other jobs to do, so this is going to take a while. But it's an interesting option. You're actually saying don't make it a hard set-off, but possibly a suspension clause. Of course, that just requires a change of law. If we've learned that we're taking this other change of law with us, this is also a change of law that we might have to make. That is much more close to the Christmas ceremony to Mrs Prins and Mrs De Boer. I am going to take this into account in this question: should the current Twm actually remain this temporary, or should you not move to a more permanent provision in the Wpg even before the current crisis? I'm gonna answer that question before Christmas. I'll take your question into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u180	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-2.u181	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
