ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the final report by the informers. First of all, of course, I would like to thank our informers, Mr Remkes and Mr Koolmees, for all the time and energy they have put into this, but above all for the result, namely that there is white smoke and that we can have a debate on this today. I'd like to meet with the Chamber for six moments, so ask or comment to each other, and then we'll see how far we get. I'll take a look around. Seven? Well, okay, then we'll do eight, but then I'd like to ask you to be brief and concise, because then, I think, we can make it together. The actual questions to the informers are not counted. So they're unlimited. Thank you for your understanding. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Rutte of the VVD. Mr Rutte is not yet behind the speaker's seat, but there is already an interruption, I see. That is special; I see that people are in the mood for the debate, which is good to notice. I call Mr Rutte of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Good morning. I didn't get to see any questions before I started. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the informers very much on behalf of my party and I know that the other parties are also very grateful to them. Johan Remkes and Wouter Koolmees have worked incredibly hard over the past few months and weeks. They've been keeping us in the loop. They kept the atmosphere good. We know from Johan Remkes that he keeps popping up permanently in the public administration, so I trust that this is also the case over the next decades and that we can enjoy him in other places. And I sincerely hope that Wouter Koolmees will not be lost to the public administration, but that we will see it again. On behalf of my party and I think, on behalf of the four parties, thank you very much for your good work!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. This is not an easy time to present this agreement. It is a time when the Netherlands is dealing with the corona crisis. A time when people in our country sometimes lose faith in the answer to the question of whether politics, the government, we are able to fulfill this basic promise, namely that our children and grandchildren will get it better than we had it. This agreement will not restore that confidence. It will depend on the implementation of this agreement. This agreement is only the first step towards restoring that confidence. We, as the incoming coalition parties, want to restore that confidence in politics and government and show that this will enable us to move the Netherlands forward. That is why D66, CDA, Christian Union and VVD want to take responsibility together, to provide a solution to the major issues of our time. Laying the foundations for future generations. Ensure that they are also able to make choices in their own lives in the future. This can only be done if we collectively manage to solve a number of major issues that arise, which we cannot solve individually, for those next generations. That is the aim of this agreement. This is reflected in a number of very practical and concrete issues. For example, the climate crisis that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Something's being shown in the public gallery. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	We've read it now. I think you can move it back in, I'll tell the bleachers. Thank you. I shall give the floor to Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	For example, Mr President, the climate crisis that we need to tackle together in such a way that you, I and our companies can also look forward to that future with confidence. To give perspective to the middle groups in the Netherlands, including by reducing a number of taxes. But also by ensuring that there are affordable houses in the country in the future. Keeping people safe in their own home, their neighborhood, our country. Make sure we keep criminals off the streets. That we keep a grip on migration, on who comes in and who leaves. And that we make our education the best education in the world. Training our children for the jobs of the future. And indeed, Mr President, once again, we are going to pass this country on cleaner to future generations. I told you, this agreement is not an end. And we don't want to fight that battle alone. In this agreement, not everything has been fully worked out as in a classic coalition agreement. It is a coalition agreement that wants to seek cooperation with all constructive parties here in the Lower House and of course also in the Upper House. As far as we are concerned, there will also be strong substantive discussions, not only between the broad political centre and the flanks, but also in that broad political centre, sometimes also between coalition parties and coalition parties and other parties in this House of Representatives, about our analyses, the solutions that go with them and how we will eventually come to compromises together. It is also for this reason that we will not only be talking in this debate, but will also be listening in particular. That will also apply to the debate on the declaration of government. After that, ministers will continue to implement the plans contained in notes and letters. These, too, will undoubtedly lead to debates in this Chamber, which will give us the opportunity to talk to each other in detail and to incorporate ideas from other parties, so that we can come to compromises together. Mr President, I see a number of people who have questions. I actually wanted to conclude by saying that after these questions I would like to table a motion. I will do so at the end of my speaking time when the questions have been answered. Then let me close with this. The conclusion of this agreement, the time it took to shape the information, has simply been too long. It's been a long time. It's been too long. We must now work together for the Netherlands, because that is what we are all here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you very much. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mrs Marijnissen, then Mr Wilders, then Mr Klaver and then Mr Azarkan. Mrs Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Nice story from Mr. Rutte, but I wonder why he's abandoning care. If there is one group that has really been looking forward to and has waited a long time for a new coalition, then it is the concern. A lot of people in the Netherlands already saw that, but Corona really makes everyone see it: extra investment in healthcare needs to be made. And what does this cabinet do? This cabinet cuts billions of dollars on care. This cabinet is not going to go a penny, I repeat: not a penny! To give rise to a wage increase for a decent appreciation for caregivers. This cabinet is not doing anything to deal with the market in healthcare, which drives caregivers crazy and which also costs a lot of time and a lot of money. This cabinet preserves its own risk and, worse still, makes its own contributions for people who cannot afford it at all. Mr Rutte can't be serious about this, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	This will indeed be one of those issues that we will be discussing in detail today and also in forthcoming debates. First the facts as I see them and as this incoming coalition sees them. In the coming years, a lot of extra money will go to health care. In fact, in the coming years we will be investing extra in healthcare, for example in what is called "pandemic preparedness" in jargon. Are we able to deal with serious health crises, even in the future? In the even longer term, we have to face the fact that healthcare expenditure continues to rise so quickly that, if we do not do anything about it, that expenditure ultimately pushes other expenditures out of the nest like a cuckoo boy, in the field of education, in the field of safety and in the field of other important matters that the government must organise. We're not going to cut back in the longer term. We're not gonna cut healthcare spending. What we are going to do is slow down the rise in these further costs in healthcare. That is necessary. We need to have that debate with each other. Those who say that this is not necessary and that these care costs can simply continue to increase, I would ask, in the context of the constructive discussion, to discuss here how they see the sustainability of our public finances in the longer term and to see the opportunities to continue spending money on education, security and all the other important priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	Those caregivers were there for us all in the first wave, often without protection and with danger to our own health. And they were there in the second wave, when everyone actually wanted to rest. And they were there in the third wave, and in the fourth wave, and they're always there. And they take care of everyone: they provide vaccinated and unvaccined, they care for young and old and for fat and for thin, it doesn't matter. They take care of everyone. And what does this cabinet say now? This cabinet says: we are not going to pay a penny for the coming period, I repeat: not a penny for a better appreciation for you. The Prime Minister just doesn't speak the truth when he says he's not cutting back on care. He will. I would like to join him in the debate on the longer term and on 2050 and on how we can work together to ensure that we can pay for care properly. We have all kinds of ideas about that. But also now! I heard the coalition parties on television last night telling this beautiful story everywhere, but it's just not the truth. Mr Rutte must be honest about that. The truth is that in the coming period too, so in the short term, there will be severe cuts in health care. There are cuts in nursing care, again. It was once agreed that there should be a decent staffing in a nursing home department. But that goes down: 100 million off, 200 million off, the year after 350 million off, then so-called 'budget agreements' - that means just cutting back. 70 million off in care for the elderly, 135 million off in care for the elderly. In disability care, in mental health care: exactly the same. In youth care, where waiting lists are long: also for the coming period cuts. Up to half a billion is cut to that. So why aren't you telling the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	In the coming years, and you can see this in the agreement, the incoming coalition is making extra money for the care, on top of the cost increase already taking place in the care. In the longer term, we need to look at how we control care costs, not by cutting costs, but by slowing down the further increase. If we do not do that, then the cost of care will eventually take up so much of the wealthy expenditure that we no longer have the space together, unless we increase taxes extremely, to continue to spend on the important other issues that I have just mentioned: our defence, our security, our education, the approach to climate issues, construction and all those things that need to be done. Mrs Marijnissen says: do you have no respect for the people in the care? That respect is immense in all of us. Let us not take each other's measure, would be my suggestion, about the respect that we, incoming coalition parties, parties that may become part of the opposition, have for each other here. We all feel that. One of the things that this incoming coalition also wants to achieve is that in that care there will be more room for craftsmanship, that people will have more space to design their own work properly. That's an important wish that lives there. In the coming years, there will also, of course, be scope for further wage increases in collective bargaining. But it is not customary, of course, to describe in a financial agreement with an incoming cabinet exactly how much wages will increase. We decided, very recently, at the General Reviews with each other to raise wages in the care sector considerably. But I'm gonna keep something going, and we're gonna have to have that debate here, or we're not gonna be honest with each other. I say that directly to Mrs Marijnissen. I know that she has a great heart for care, but also for education, also for tackling climate issues and also for the housing market. If we cannot slow down the rise in healthcare costs in the long term, we will face a huge problem. We cannot ignore that, nor can we ignore Mrs Marijnissen, none of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	If this is the harbinger of what the new governance culture looks like, then I'm tired of it already. The Prime Minister repeats for the second time the answer he gave the first time. It's a story that we already know in the meantime: "no, it's less or more," "it's slowing down growth" and "they're redirects." That's just The Hague jargon for cuts. It does indeed mean that, when we are with more and more people and we are all getting older, there will also have to be a little more care to keep them at the same level. If you don't, which is what the cabinet doesn't do, then you cut back, or you put the bill on the people themselves. That is what happens with all those own contributions that are going to be introduced; then you charge the people who need the care. And that's not fair. I was so hoping he'd be honest. He does not go into all the concrete examples I mention, in nursing care, in disability care, in mental health care and in youth care. That's where the next period will be just lovers, Mr. Rutte. There's just love in there. And all kinds of plans have been presented. Indeed, there's a lot of money going to DOD, probably back to failed wars. There's a lot of money going to nuclear power stations that nobody's looking for. There's all the pluses there, but there's all the minuses in the care department. I'm really wondering, how do you explain that? 'Cause that can't be explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	That requires a very precise answer. Then I would ask Mrs Marijnissen to go into my point as well, how in the longer term she wants to ensure that money remains available for those important other things that we jointly have to organise as public administration, as a government. Let me give you one example, which she takes out: youth care. Child care is a huge issue. That's where a lot of extra money goes. In the coming years, too, a lot of extra money will go there. But in the field of youth care, we have the following to face at the moment. Youth care, which is aimed at people who have some minor problems, is in itself well organised. But children, young people, who have very serious problems, have to do with long waiting lists. So apart from the fact that extra money has to go to youth care, it can only be that Mrs Marijnissen participates in the discussion and presents her plans for the following. How can we ensure that the young people who are dealing with serious issues and who have been on the waiting lists for too long are treated and served in youth care? That's crucial. The answer can't be alone: there's a lot more money to go. The answer must also be: why is it that so much work is being done in the field of youth care for children and young people who have problems that are more transparent in themselves, which means that the young people who have serious problems are on the waiting lists? Those are tough discussions. What this incoming coalition wants is to have that kind of discussion with each other, try to convince each other on the basis of arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	It shouldn't get weirder. Mr Rutte now accuses me that the SP would not come up with alternatives to care. We've got plenty of them. We are proposing a health fund, which will put an end to the market, unnecessary bureaucracy and thus waste. You can save a lot of health care costs. Take the profits in pharmacy, the Pfizers of this world, who are now taking off with billions of profits. If you want to save on care, we can still call a whole bunch of things. Indeed, give more control to the people who do the work, give those people the confidence. They are very well able to assess which care is needed and which is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	Yeah, once, you yell. But that's quite different from what this cabinet does. This is just cold cuts again. There's loves everywhere here, in nursing care, for Christ's sake. That was so hard fought for, that it was said in the end: it would be good if there were at least two people in such a nursing home department. Of this, this cabinet simply says that we are going to cut back and not in 2050 and not in the long term or in the reverse, but just now, the coming period. That's gonna be 100 million, then 200 million, then 350 million. That's less staff in the nursing homes. That's a real big mistake. Mr President, I will conclude. Look, the SP has always been very clear. We do not believe that Rutte IV is credible as the start of Rutte III. If this cabinet enters with these plans for care, it will find the SP really opposite. Then it's not only unbelievable, but this cabinet is really making a false start.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	I think we should tell each other the whole story in the open conversation, and that is part of that governance culture that we want to build. The whole and honest story is that in the coming years there will be a plus to the care. This is necessary, for example, in order to ensure that we are better prepared for serious health crises in the future, as we are currently experiencing with corona and everything that is likely to come after it in the future. Eventually, that leads to a plus. We also need to tell the honest story to each other. Once again, I look forward to having a discussion from the incoming coalition today and in the forthcoming debates, including with Mrs Marijnissen, on how to ensure that our healthcare system remains in the top three best in the world. But we must also ensure that we keep the money to continue to make necessary investments in our education, which has fallen out of the top three, the climate, where major issues play, our housing market, where major problems have to be solved, our security and our defence. In the end, politics always makes choices in scarcity. I look forward to having the debate on the plans to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV. I forgot to mention that Mr Omtzigt has signed out. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	I find it shameless that Mr Rutte is again here as a candidate prime minister. He brought the Netherlands from crisis to crisis. He left a trail of destruction. A lot of people who are watching television today will not understand that the person responsible for, for example, the surcharge scandal, where totally innocent people have been criminalized and their children have been removed from home, is now standing here. He's responsible for the idea of getting rid of a Member of Parliament. He lied about that to the House of Representatives. He has had a motion of censure adopted unanimously by his own group, but he is standing here with all the bravado as if nothing had happened at all. What are people supposed to think? The confidence in politics is hugely low by people like you, Mr. Rutte. You're kind of the political arsonist who wants to be the fire chief again. That's not credible. That's not credible. We can now talk about all of these things today, and we will do so, and I will also be part of them, but I have already told you that you are ensuring that confidence in politics is only reduced. You are the political pyromaniac who left behind a trail of misery in the Netherlands. Now you're just standing there again. In January, you will probably be back in trade-k and continue as if nothing had happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	If Mr Wilders argues that in the last eleven years, in which the VVD was the largest party in the Netherlands, things have not gone well and there have even been a few very serious crises that we have to resolve with each other, then he is right. He rightly mentions the terrible affair with the childcare allowance. He could also have mentioned the resolution of the earthquake damage in Groningen. He's just right about that. At the same time, I am proud that up to four times my party has gained the confidence of the Netherlands to take the lead in coalition negotiations as the largest party. I am proud that we have put this country financially in order with the first two Cabinets. I am proud that, with the coalition starting in January, we have managed to further stabilise the country and make the first necessary investments in education and safety, to bring about the pension agreement and to bring about the Climate Agreement. We are currently one of the fastest growing and best performing economies in the Western world. It is therefore possible in the coming years to ensure that the major issues for the next generation in the areas of housing, security, climate and education are further addressed. I'm proud of that. I agree with Mr Wilders that things have not gone well in recent years either. I feel it is an expensive duty, as a task that we, as a VVD, as the largest party, received from the electorate in March, to do everything possible to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr Rutte is ignoring my point. My point is as follows. You caused all that. You tried to get rid of Mr Omtzigt, who is unfortunately absent today. You lied to Parliament about that. All this happened after the election. That has nothing to do with: I had a good result in the elections. You are responsible every time for all these crises, for all these lies, for all this mischief. I just can't stand it and I just don't understand why there's not gonna be a ringing bell somewhere, like, "Shouldn't I take responsibility?" Now you're back with a lot of bravado, just like yesterday. You tried to be modest, but there you are again. You'll be Prime Minister again. The Dutchman thinks: "How the hell is this possible? If I make one mistake in taxes, I'll be haunted for months or years. Then they won't forgive me for that mistake." If I'm driving down the street drunk, of course you should never do that. I'm gonna lose my driver's license or I'm gonna go to jail. Then there's no one to forgive me. If I make a mistake, I have to pay a price for it. We're grown-ups. If we're gonna make mistakes, we're gonna have to be paid for that. But you're not being paid for it. That is a lie I am referring to the elimination of Mr Omtzigt's speech after the elections. The voter has not been able to judge that. I just don't get it. I understand that I can't get Mr Rutte to say, "Okay, Wilders, you're right. I'm quitting." I understand that, but you have to think about how a lot of people at home don't get it. Yesterday, on television, you said that confidence is low. That's because of you, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	In itself, Mr Wilders rightly appoints confidence in politics. This confidence in politics and public administration is low; we see this in recent investigations. It's not just the corona crisis. There's more to it than that. Mr Wilders is quite right about that. We are proud of ourselves that I also felt yesterday with my colleagues in the presentation of the agreement that there is a good piece, in which there is a necessary vision for the future for the Netherlands. We also said, however, that serving that vision now, of that plan, with the usual breast-knocking, would be totally inappropriate. That just doesn't feel right when there are still so many problems in the Netherlands, when there are so many people with great worries. In my opinion, the Netherlands says, and that is really my conviction: "Good that there will be a new cabinet, but let's see it. Prove it in practice. Show them that you are willing to change things, even when it comes to governance culture and how you deal with each other. Show that you can carry out these plans on education, climate, security and living." That's perfectly right. The proof of the pudding is in the eating; that's what the voters will think. They're absolutely right about that. In addition, if things have not gone well, think of the child care allowance affair, which is terrible, or the resolution of the earthquake damage in Groningen, this incoming coalition sees it as its task to do everything possible to clarify it and to provide a future perspective for the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	I think there's something else going on. I think Mr Rutte is mainly concerned with himself. He is not at all concerned with what is best for the Netherlands, for his party or for anyone. You're working on yourself. You do not draw the conclusions about everything that has gone wrong, your lies, trying to get rid of Mr Omtzigt. Look at this chord. I've been trying to figure out what you've done. I don't like to tell you, but left, Mrs Kaag, is the winner of the formation. You have made an agreement with which the Netherlands on the left can lick his fingers. What did you do? I'll mention it. You have increased immigration, asylum and illegal reception. We're gonna have bill rides, flight taxes and more European Union. And Mrs Kaag's obsession with climate and nitrogen is about the common thread in the coalition agreement. You really didn't bring in anything to limit immigration. The biggest problem at the moment in the Netherlands is not climate and nitrogen. Think of the fact that your own Secretary of State for Immigration is sending a Ukaze to force them to take in more asylum seekers. A lot of Dutch people don't want that. That's at the top of the list of things people worry about. But you make a coalition just as easy with the right as with the left. As long as Mark Rutte stays in the Tower. Why don't you just say honestly that you don't care, as long as you stay in power in that little tower? It's no good to the Netherlands, but it'll do you everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	For starters: climate and nitrogen, these are not hobbies from left or right. If we don't solve those issues, look at nitrogen............................................................................................................................................................. We need to fix that. The climate issue, we have to solve it. Otherwise, we will have an increasingly dirty country where people do not want to live, where future generations cannot grow up properly. The good news is that our economy is so strong that we can address these two major issues on a multiannual basis in a way that the impact on the individual Dutchman will definitely be there, but less violent than if less money was available. That is the good news of this agreement, and we will have to deliver on it in the years to come. Mr Wilders and I do not think exactly the same about migration. I'm not against every asylum seeker. I believe that the Netherlands should provide shelter to asylum seekers fleeing war and violence, but the numbers should be manageable and bearable throughout the country. And that includes leaving people who aren't supposed to be here. What this agreement does is to ensure that we reduce immigration along three lines. Firstly, as with Turkey, Mr Wilders was against this, we want to continue making deals with countries in the region for shelter in that region. Secondly, we want to ensure that Europe's external borders are properly protected. The Commission's latest proposals... It is also so hated by Mr Wilders, but you need it here. You can't solve it like the Netherlands alone. We also need Europe, our unity in Europe. The Commission's latest proposals, and what the French President intends to do in the first half of next year as President of the European Union, are exactly what is needed to better monitor those external borders, to be able to close internal borders within those external borders as well if necessary. The third thing we want to do is to do a lot more to make sure that people who have no business here, who can leave, have to leave, but don't want to leave, too. That is extremely important, because it sends a signal to the rest of the world: come here only if you really are an asylum seeker and again, even if it is not possible, for example, to get that shelter elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	This cabinet, the upcoming cabinet, does nothing, not just one measure, to make sure fewer people come in for asylum. In fact, you're going to expand the bed-bath bread scheme, the shelter for illegals. The municipalities can continue to do so, albeit without subsidies. And you're also going to arrange a national shelter for illegal immigrants. Of course, that only attracts more asylum seekers and more illegals. I find it really incredible that a party like the VVD, who said ten years ago at Rutte I, "there is a coalition agreement on which the Netherlands can lick its fingers on the right," eleven years later, with a left-wing agreement on which the Netherlands can lick its fingers on the left and completely abandon the Dutch. Nothing about immigration. Cut back, hard as hell, on care. Shameful. Cut back on care. To the elderly of the Netherlands. The elderly in the Netherlands are again not receiving an indexed pension, but also, with the exception of a piece of old people's discount, a crumb, they do not receive an increase in their AOW pension. It's really unbelievable. You spend EUR 60 billion on climate and nitrogen. I would say: spend the EUR 60 billion on the purchasing power repair of the Dutch, on the pensions of the elderly and on care. Why don't you? Then you stand for the Netherlands. You are now blowing right and left. Now it's left. Mr. Rutte, as long as you're there, the Netherlands won't be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	I see it as a gain that Mr Wilders does not, in my view, take up the sensible migration paragraph as I outline, which shows that this country, and with a decent asylum policy, wants to provide shelter to those who flee war and violence, while at the same time doing everything possible to get people who cannot make use of it out of here, to take care of people in the region and to ensure that we, as Europe, can jointly monitor our external borders. That's a solid migration paragraph. I'm very happy about that. That is not a point of profit for one party or another. That's wise policy. Then he comes with a whole bag of English licorice to other criticism. If I'm gonna answer them all now, I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	Immigration and asylum policies cost us EUR 20 billion a year. They're everywhere, these asylum seekers. They are now being received in former care complexes. They're being picked up in luxury hotels. They're being picked up everywhere. The Netherlands is completely overwhelmed by people who claim asylum, but are not asylum seekers at all. They come from safe countries. They're not asylum seekers at all. Your Secretary of State Mrs Broekers-Knol has now sent a ukaze, to the anger of your own VVD aldermen in many municipalities and their inhabitants, in which she says: I force you to take in more asylum seekers. And not one measure. I dare you. What measure did you take in the government agreement to ensure that these communities do not have to catch those people, that they leave tomorrow, that they don't come in? What are you gonna do about it? Don't talk to me like that. Tell us in detail what you are doing to ensure that these asylum seekers do not come back to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	If Mr Wilders wants no more asylum seekers to come to the Netherlands, I am not in favour of that. Firstly, I am in favour of receiving asylum seekers in the region, if possible. I would like to highlight the serious Syrian refugee crisis of 2015 and 2016. Mr Wilders was against it and said: you do not agree with Erdogan. We, as Europe, have done so, fortunately, but we have reduced the number of people crossing the Aegean from a huge stream to a few. That's how we got that asylum crisis under control. Mr. Wilders, that's necessary. You can't do that alone as the Netherlands. That's what you have to do with other countries. We will do the same in the years to come, by making deals with countries in the region, by being a Europe that is indeed important to secure our Schengen area together. I have just said that the French make this a priority for their presidency of the European Union in the first half of next year. This is important because it also gives you the support in the Netherlands for the reception of people who are allowed to be here. But Mr Wilders is ignoring an important fact. The problem at the moment is not that the influx of asylum itself would be so much higher than in other years. The problem is that we in the Netherlands are currently very short of housing, for everyone, not only for asylum seekers, but also for children, young people and students who want to go home. That is why it is so incredibly important that we do the following two things in the coming years. We need to invest more in our asylum seekers' centres so that there is more capacity, and we need to help people who can stay here to get a job as soon as possible so that they can contribute to this society and then get out of that azc. That's where the problem is right now. He should tell the honest story about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	No. The problem lies with Mr Rutte and with the VVD. No asylum seekers are currently being massed in the region. They're all coming here. They're coming to Holland. This is where the azc's run! I've been to Ter Apel recently, Mr. Rutte. There are stabbings against people living there and women are pushed out of their wheelchairs by asylum equipment. They're afraid to do any more shopping. That's where the police, which I don't know how far to go, are not doing anything at all at the time of the theft. There is a huge nuisance of asylum seekers in the Netherlands and you come up with a story about the European Union and the French Presidency. Stop it! Something needs to happen now and you're not doing anything. You're talking about the apartments, Mr. Rutte. Do you find it strange that, if the cabinet under your rule ensures that all asylum seekers are given priority over Dutch people who have been on the waiting list for ten or fifteen years for a house, which is still happening in more than half of the municipalities, we have a problem! Then we have a problem with housing. That's because you let those people in. You let them all in. There's nothing about that in the coalition agreement. Mrs Kaag has got her way 100%: the borders remain open. One of the reasons we have too few houses in the Netherlands is because as a VVD you give priority to all those people at the expense of Dutch people who have to wait. That's not right. Your policy is no good. It would be a pleasure for you to admit it. On immigration and asylum, you have been given a huge push and you have not received anything. You are not here for the Netherlands, but for your own power.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	First of all, this priority scheme for asylum seekers in housing has been abolished. Mr Wilders knows that very well. That is also right, because asylum seekers, of course, are no more entitled to a home than people who have been living here for a long time, such as children, students and so on who are looking for a home. It is important that more is built in the coming years. In 2015, 2016 we had a serious asylum crisis. Then we had a huge influx of Syrian asylum seekers. Eventually, there were 50,000, 60,000 a year, three to four times as much as usual. That's when we intervened hard. The fact that the flow of asylum is largely absorbed in Turkey is a result of the agreements that Europe made with Turkey and Greece, with the Netherlands in the lead as President of the Union. I insist that Mr Wilders sells his constituents tubers for lemons if he thinks that it is possible for the Netherlands to have an asylum policy only outside the European Union. I can't. We live in an unstable world, where large groups of people flee and also large groups do not flee but want to improve themselves. We can't catch that last group here. The reception of this first group must take place as much as possible in the region, and if they do come here, we must ensure that people have a real place in society here as soon as possible. That's what the cabinet's focused on. We're gonna work on that. It is really nonsense when Mr Wilders says: you can do that without Europe for a while; you can do that alone as the Netherlands. Simply closing the borders here is, of course, not a real option. This would have enormous economic and financial consequences for a country which is so dependent on its international position for its economic growth. That's very damaging. That's bad policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	There are still a number of interruptions, first of all Mr Klaver van GroenLinks, then Mr Azarkan van DENK, Mrs Ploumen van de PvdA, Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group, Mr Dassen van Volt and then Mr Eerdmans van JA21. So you're gonna be here for a while, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	Can I have a coffee? Haha.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	First of all, congratulations. It's done. At least you have your coalition and your cabinet in the next few weeks. I'd like to go back to the hospital for a while. There is a reason why not only left-wing parties are very surprised at what you do in the care, but also right-wing parties. It is not often that we agree in this Chamber. That is because so much is being cut back on care, much more than all the electoral programmes had. You cut about three times as much as in your own election programme there were cuts. That is so strange because this coalition really plays for sintering class in about every policy area, except for the care. There's a cut in the budget. That's all the weirder because we're in a pandemic, in a corona crisis, and every healthcare worker we talk to, we're all talking about crying closer than laughing, because they have too few colleagues and because doctors are worried that people can't go to emergency care or intensive care anymore. And yet this cabinet, this coalition, has decided in its wisdom to cut back 5 billion on care. That's three times as much as you had in your own plans. My very specific question to Mr Rutte is: how many ic-beds will be added, how many extra emergency services will be opened and how many extra ic-med nurses will be added to this government agreement, which is now in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	First of all, I say, also towards Mr Klaver: I understand that question very well. I can tell him that we have discussed in detail in our discussions the need to devote extra money to care over the next few years, on top of the increase that is already taking place. It is necessary that extra money is added. At the same time, we have also talked a long time about the longer term. Then you really talk about the longer term. And for this, healthcare expenditure continues to rise so quickly that decent and sensible governance in our view also means that you are trying to put a brake on it. That is what we are doing with this agreement. That's not an easy story. That's what you noticed in the reactions today, and yesterday. That will be discussed further in this debate today. We will also have to discuss this with each other over the next few weeks and months. But it is our analysis and conviction that if you do not slow down this cost increase in the longer term, there will be an unsustainable situation. The care then accounts for such a large part of our common expenses that it is no longer possible. In the shorter term, money will be added, especially for matters such as pandemic preparedness and, in particular, to ensure that what Mr Klaver rightly calls extra investment can be made in our hospitals. I can't tell him right now exactly how many Ice Beds we're talking about. Nor was it the intention of a coalition agreement like this to record it in such detail. This will be further developed and discussed with the Chamber. But you can see very clearly the direction we are heading. There will be additional money, 300 million for pandemic preparedness, and additional investments in other aspects of health care will also be made in the coming years. We will also have that conversation with the Chamber, because that is important. There is, of course, a lot of money available in healthcare right now. One of the major issues is the availability of people. Many vacancies cannot be filled simply because of our very low unemployment. This morning it turned out to be the lowest at 2.7% since we measured it. There are so many more vacancies than the unemployed that all kinds of sectors are crying out for people, including care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr Rutte would very much like to cooperate with Parliament in a different way. Then it would be a good thing if we could really have the substantive discussion here and I do not get a repeat of the answers he has just given and the defence that has been prepared. The argument that this would be an agreement on the main points... was that it was! It goes to the level of detail on some points. 10 million will be allocated to a programme against loneliness. And then you will say: but the ic is really a detail; we still have to work that out. I'm so critical of this for the following reason. You are choosing to talk about the content rather than continue with all the screams I have just heard for an instrument of austerity, namely main line agreements. You've been doing that since you were Prime Minister. Do you know what has been the result of the deployment of these main lines in recent years? There are 7,000 fewer beds in the hospitals, 20 emergency wards are closed and 700 fewer nurses work on the ICU. That was the result. You want to use the same instrument again. This was the result of 1.5 billion cuts. If you know that this has been the result of the ten years you have been in office, how dare you speak of recovery?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	Allow me to make a commitment to Mr Klaver's report only as a VVD. That commitment is that I do want to discuss this further with him, because we will first have to analyse the main agreements and see whether that was sensible or unwise. I'd like to insist that it's wise. However, it is a lesson that we have to learn from the past few years, that if, by means of basic agreements, you set the hospital capacity against the demand that there is...................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that's a lesson we should all learn: how do you ensure that you keep much more buffer capacity in health care? There is no point in Mr Klaver agreeing with me on having all kinds of beds no one is on and having staff for those beds when they have nothing to do there. That's not gonna work either. But you will have to look at it. I say to Mr Klaver that we will have that discussion in the near future. That is why there are additional investments in this agreement to ensure that you can make additional investments with regard to pandemic preparedness. So I think that's a real point. I also think it is necessary to have a discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	We're having that conversation right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	Sure, but this is my reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	We're not gonna feed it later. We're gonna feed it now. That should have been fed at the formation table. The problems in intensive care are not just related to corona. Even before corona the workload was enormous and they walked on the edge. We need to have that conversation right now. If you say "we're really going to do it differently; this coalition is going to work in a different way" and there's a broad, left-to-right criticism of what you're doing with care, then I think we can't end this day without changing that care section. In fact, my very specific proposal is: take out this cut, do not put it in the books, and then I say to you that I am willing to talk about where smart savings are possible over the next few years. But in that order, because it starts with the content: where can we make care better and how can we prevent overtreatment? But you are now starting with 5 billion cuts, and that is not an open debate with the Chamber. 'Cause then I'll know exactly how it's gonna be. We will say that the 1.5 billion cuts in basic agreements are not so sensible. And then the answer is yes, but that is the financial framework; we are now stuck with that as a coalition. Then there is no more room to really have the conversation. So, yes, you can expect me to think about how we keep care affordable. But you are actually putting a knife to the throat of this Parliament by booking $5 billion. That's a big deal, isn't it, 5 billion? Take it out, and then we'll have the conversation, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	I think having the conversation is a good idea. I don't think it's a good idea to take it out. I think you should definitely keep the pressure on it, that it's necessary to put that brake on it. But I think it is a very good proposal from Mr Klaver to discuss with each other in the near future how we are shaping these basic agreements. This is indeed a crucial debate, which we must also have here: how do we do it in such a way that we actually achieve savings, so that the rising costs of care are slowed down, and at the same time ensure that health care is also organised for the future? I think we can do both. In fact, I think it is our sacred task and duty to ensure that it does. It is not acceptable for health care costs to continue to rise so rapidly in the longer term. That's what we have to face each other. I think it would be unwise to remove that amount now. That pressure has to be put on to make it work. Mr Klaver has the power here if he does not agree with the way in which we would shape it. This coalition has no majority in the Upper House. In the end, therefore, we will always have to come to business, including with Jesse Klaver, but also with the parties on the right of the coalition, with the Labour Party and so on. So that's what we're really looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	The proof of the pudding is in the eating, and it doesn't really taste at the moment. This is exactly how coalitions have always worked. There's nothing new about this. A financial framework is laid down and can be spoken in it. I really want to do it differently, and not because we have to help you get a majority in the First Chamber, but because the ideas are right or wrong. It has to be about the content here. It shouldn't be about us demanding something. The discussion about this content is not possible if there is a 5 billion Damocles sword hanging above care. If you really want to work together, you should not just say "we're going to work with them" on television and now say "I want to have that conversation with you." Then you have to give the room for that. Because this is how every coalition has worked so far: we are creating a financial framework, which is tight, and that is the starting point for talking. Contents first. And I stand by it: if you really think you're going to change something in the way The Hague works, you're going to take that 5 billion off the table. Then you may ask us to take a very serious look at how we keep these care costs manageable, but from the point of view of content. If I ask how many Ice Beds, E.R.s and nurses are added, and you cannot answer that question, but you save 5 billion, then you make exactly the mistake you have made in so many other areas. Think about child care and gas extraction. There it was pushing and thinking: we are on the right track; we need to achieve financial targets. Then people got into trouble. You're doing the exact same thing. You do not do this after two or three weeks or six months; you do it on the first day that this agreement is in place. Stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	This is 50% good and 50% bad. What Mr Klaver is doing, I understand that is saying: I am now making a totem pole of those cuts in health care of more than 4 billion in the longer term, and if you do not take them off the table, then you do not mean it with the new governance culture. It's not going well there, because I don't think that's real. I think it is real that, as a cabinet that is in office, we have plans, including with regard to the financial framework, to fill them out and to discuss them with each other. The 50% where things are going well is that, much more intensively than in recent years, we have to talk to each other about how to do it. In the end, I will not say: Mr Klaver does not have good ideas, but he may also have power in the First Chamber if others do not support us. Of course it's a combination of those two. That's always the case in politics. It's about content and seats. You can't see those two apart. But the content is of course paramount; Mr Klaver is absolutely right about that. I look forward to having that conversation. Finally, something about the number of beds. It is not said that we are going to scale up the existing ic's as they are now organized. That's happening temporarily now, because of the terrible corona crisis. But in the longer term, with pandemic preparedness, we want to ensure that there is much more buffer capacity. This means that, depending on the kind of health care crisis that exists, you are able to catch up with people and move people within care, but also to prevent people from standing by beds that nobody is on in the longer term. Of course, that doesn't make any sense either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	Two things. I was at Catharina Hospital in Eindhoven last year and I was there a few weeks ago. There are fewer people on the ICU now than last year. The outflow is ongoing. If you don't turn it around, you won't have anything to do with scaling up plans, because then there's nothing to scale up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u44	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u45	You are trying to say that I am trying to make a totem pole of something, but I do not have the same debate as you had with Mr Wilders, in which a point is made to show how different one is. I am making a genuine attempt here to change the way we work, because I believe that we are obliged to do so in the Netherlands. I notice that you are not prepared to do so. You're saying, yes, we're going to talk more intensively. Ammehula! We've really talked intensively enough. If we do not change the system with which we work here in The Hague... The financial frameworks are always mandatory. When there are 5 billion in the books that need to be cut, that becomes a sacred goal and must be achieved. All I'm asking you to do is take that out. That's not a totem pole. It is symbolic of the way we should work together here. If you don't want to do that, you don't take seriously that we really need to have a different way of working with each other. Then you're just gonna keep going on the old foot, and I'm sorry about that. That is a missed opportunity, and the Netherlands does not deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u46	That was the first 50%. Then it's not a totem pole, but the litmus test: are you gonna take that 5 billion off the table or not? Well, that's what I'm gonna say. This debate also includes the fact that the coalition parties still have the right to say things in response to the opposition's suggestions. So that's one point. The second point is that we have to realize that this care savings is not there before 2025. It stands for the much longer term, so that we can take steps together to work towards it to ensure that care expenditure remains manageable in the longer term. And that's not even a cutdown. It's a slowing down of the further rise. That's what we have to talk about. I'm glad Mr. Klaver says he wants to. I also believe that, in the longer term, we cannot continue with an unbridled growth in healthcare expenditure. We must be prepared to take a look at his colleagues on the left side of the road in order to discuss this with each other. That is also what I think is necessary. So I support that part, but Mr Klaver says that if you don't get that 5 billion off the table, you don't take it seriously. That's what he literally says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u47	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u48	And with that, he still makes it some sort of litmus test. I don't think that's real. I can say the same in response to that. It is not the case that the new administrative culture is: Mr Klaver says something and here is a carbon paper called "Rutte" that takes over. No, we'll have that conversation with each other. I also show exactly where, from the VVD's point of view, I see the space to have that conversation; my colleagues will perhaps say something about it later. But then we can say something back. This is also part of the robust dialogue we have with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u49	What this open door is... Of course you can say something back, but what you embrace is actually: as we have worked with each other over the past few years, we are going to do a little better; I really like that. That is the top 50% of your answer, but it was precisely that other part. What I appeal to you for is that you are not prepared to change the way you work here in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u50	I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u51	If you don't understand that, I'm kindly sorry, but what the hell have you done in all these interviews with your radical ideas on how to change democracy and how to change the whole governance culture? I couldn't see you in front of any camera without you saying, guys, we're really gonna do something completely different. And in the first debate we have and in the first proposal I make to do it differently, your response is: no, we are not going to do that; I do not need to take over everything you say. That's right. I think it is a good idea, by the way, but I understand that you do not. But this isn't about whether or not to cut back on care. This is about the way we work here with each other. It's the first proposal we make here, and it's like "nun." It's not even like, "Well, you know what? That's interesting. Let me think about it. Maybe I'll come back to it in a moment." It's the same: no, that's not how we're gonna do it. That's what I hate, Mr. Rutte. That's what I hate. You just think you can go on the old way. That's what I won't accept. I am prepared to accept that there will be a cabinet in which you will be Prime Minister again, but if you think you can do that in exactly the same way you have done over the last ten years, you have a really fat, fat problem, because the Netherlands can't handle it. So I ask you to at least think about it and not serve it off by saying: it is a totem pole; you are trying to pull a political trick out of this. It's not that. This is content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u52	I didn't talk about a political trick. I said, as Mr Klaver puts it, it is a litmus test. I disagree. It's okay. But I didn't say it was a political trick, not at all. I think the conversation we are having is the right one. That has to be fed. The relationship between the coalition and the opposition in a different way, and also the way the coalition relates to the cabinet, are all aspects of that governance culture and how we should change it in this house. I would like to draw attention to my successful performance in May with Mrs Tweebeeke van Nieuwsuur. As a coalition, we will work very hard on that. We will also have to show that in practice. We just need to avoid one point being placed on the table and it is said: if you do not take over now, then you are not serious. That alone is not real to me, and I just called it a litmus test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u53	For my part, too, it's a good thing there's a cabinet. Indeed, it is still getting used to the new impetus and the new governance culture, but: new round, new opportunities for the Prime Minister. I would just like to look specifically at the content of the agreement. For example, the healthcare section says that half a billion savings are being made on youth care. That means that all those families who are in trouble and all those kids who can't go out should not only be on a waiting list for a long time and wait for someone to look at them, but also for their own contribution. 'Cause that's the cutback. It's $1,000. That's what it is. Those are the cuts to the care Mr Klaver was just talking about. That's how it goes down for the people: their own contribution to youth care and their own contribution for people in a nursing home. That could amount to thousands of euros; hence my question. If this coalition is serious about keeping its own promises, namely that there should be money in youth care and that we should look after each other and the children, then my question to the Prime Minister is to reverse this cut in youth care. Mr President, I am getting ahead of myself. Because we have debated with each other more often: not less, but more durability and coverage. There is a very simple cover for this. If, from the earliest possible moment, all specialists go into paid employment, then this cut in youth care can simply be removed from the books. Then we can really take care of the kids who need this. My simple question to the Prime Minister is whether he is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u54	We have plans for youth care. Under the present cabinet, of course, a lot of extra money went there to solve the problems that exist as well as possible. We need to define much more clearly what is really youth care and how we can actually enable municipalities to provide that care as best as possible. That's what we want to talk about. One intention that we have is to buy, for example, the more specialised youth care centre. Then you talk about the youth ggz, for example. All this has advantages, because it also keeps you more in control of what needs to be done there. You also try to reduce the waiting lists. In the coming years, therefore, there will be a lot of extra money going to youth care, but one way or another we will have to try to organise it in such a way that the children most in need of it, the toughest cases, can go there as well as possible. We would like to come forward with proposals and discuss them with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u55	It is an abomination to me, which buys centrally; as if it is about detergents or dishwashing brushes! This is about vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u56	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u57	I would also like to say that I agree that there is also room for change in the field of youth care. Young people's services think so most of all. But that wasn't my point. My point was: is the Prime Minister prepared to take that austerity off the table? Because you can't do it to a child to ask from the family from which it comes, which is a problematic family, for a personal contribution of €1,000 before that child gets to the care that it needs. A simple answer to this simple question is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u58	We are also looking more broadly, for example in the context of the WMO, at the current issue of subscription rates, which in itself has led to a reduction in the accumulation of healthcare costs and has also brought transparency but also considerable disadvantages. So those are examples of how we're going to see how you can do that in an honest way. This should also apply to youth care and other health care matters. That's inevitable. But I think that the design is extremely important here too. This is not, of course, a government agreement in which everything is settled to the last points. It is a coalition agreement that is also seeking to talk to Mrs Ploumen and others here to see how we can improve things. So I'm gonna write down some of the things she says here. I cannot say yes or no to this now, but I am hearing very well what she is proposing, and I also think that this is something on which we, as coalition parties, need to think further in the future and that we should also come back to Mrs Ploumen for that. But I cannot say here on behalf of one of the four parties: I fully agree with that. That is not possible in this debate either. This is not the only debate we are having, but I can hear what she is saying very clearly. I also think it is real that we are going to see how we can find a way forward for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u59	I think today is the time to do that. 'Cause when else? It shouldn't have been in there at all. But then there's one more point. We see the Prime Minister yesterday telling us that on all kinds of important issues the coalition chooses to invest extra. I fully agree with some of it; it should have been done long ago where nothing has happened in the last four years. But when I look at the people who have helped build this country for years, the people who now enjoy AOW, I notice that they just get nothing. Their AOW is disconnected from the increase in the minimum wage. This means that it is a bit floating and left to the political color of the coalition whether they are willing to face older people or not; they are not now. No extra money for the people who enjoy AOW. I would also like to ask: how should I see that in relation to looking after each other? You leave people with AOW and a small pension in trouble, because they get nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u60	I understand what Mrs Ploumen is saying. It is true that the increase in minimum wage does not continue in the AOW. She's just right about that. What we are doing is responding to this same group of elderly people in a different way, namely by increasing the elderly discount. That's where about 300 million more goes. You can also see it in a first, very careful pass-through of the purchasing power effects. It is still cautious because many things still need to be worked out in more detail. That table was there, too. If you look at that through your eye hairs, you can see that the policy of the incoming coalition leads to such a full percent increase in the purchasing power of older people because of this type of measures, so that they go from the minus they had if there were no new cabinet, to a plus. Indeed, it is not as large as in the case of workers and beneficiaries, because there it is extra plus 1.2% while in the case of the elderly it is 1%. So there's 0.2% in between. You would prefer to have them all at 1.2%, but it is also not the case that there is a huge difference between the elderly and those with benefits, i.e. 1% versus 1.2%. But, again, that is the first, very indicative transfer of purchasing power effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u61	I saw something quite different through my eye hairs, namely that the measure proposed by this coalition to accommodate older people does not end up at all with people with only an AOW or an AOW with a small pension. And that's the truth. My question to the Prime Minister is to make other choices. They are possible. Nothing is being done about the reform of the tax system to make it fairer and more effective. These choices can lead to a better income position for people with an AOW and a small pension. They deserve that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u62	There is certainly the intention to look very fundamentally at the tax system in the future, together with the Chamber. So we now have nothing in this coalition agreement but that plan. So that's what we have to do with each other. I also think it is real that Mrs Ploumen says: in this context, we should also look at the position of older people in relation to the whole pension system. The choice we have made is indeed not to allow this increase in the minimum wage to continue working in the AOW, but to do so through the old-age discount. That whole design will of course also come to the Chamber, so I also note this wish. I cannot say at this point that we are going to accept that, because that also has far-reaching budgetary implications if you allow it to work in the AOW. I believe that the purchasing power differences in purchasing power growth due to the government policy of the incoming coalition are limited in themselves. But this is, of course, the conversation we need to have. I note Mrs Ploumen's wish. We are defending these plans today. This is the first time we've seen each other. We shall also have the debate on the declaration of government in a moment and then the plans for its implementation will be drawn up. These are all opportunities for further detailed consideration of the possibility of building further bridges between the incoming coalition and the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u63	Finally. I had hoped for a more generous, more open attitude from the Prime Minister. Because this is the first debate we have with this new coalition in what is then going to be called a "new governance culture." It only becomes new and different when people in the country notice something about it,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u64	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u65	... not if we have a nicer, more friendly or more constructive conversation with each other. So my proposals ensure that people in the country will notice it, because in this agreement too many people in the care, the elderly, the students, the garbage collectors, are far too upset.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u66	I really do not think the latter is true, if you also look at the carefully indicated increase in purchasing power, especially for people with a lower income. It is actually very similar to that of middle-income people, and the somewhat higher incomes get less purchasing power because of this package. So I don't think it's true that we're gonna have to put the box filler at a disadvantage compared to the factory director. That's just not true. But I understand what Mrs Ploumen is saying: I want to talk about the design, including the position of the elderly, also in relation to further modernisation of the tax system. That is a real point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u67	Let's start with a reminder for the Prime Minister. He said about 45 minutes ago: the Dutch people say'show them'. I don't think that's the case. We know that pattern of forgetfulness. The Dutch people have said by majority: we have no confidence in it. Don't blame them. This Prime Minister has not been able to show it for a year, not one period, not two, but ten years. So if he says "the Dutch people want me to show it to them," he has been able to show it for ten years. And if we look at the results of this, we see a housing market where there is a shortage of hundreds of thousands of homes, where a landlord's tax was almost half a half of the number of social rental homes, where they were sold under the direction of Mr Rutte's colleague, Mr Blok. He called on the investors to come and buy our social housing. There's nothing left to get. That's gonna take years. That is the result of that policy of ten years. We see that every young person who is now graduating has a noose around the neck of €21,000. That leads to stress, to burnout, to mental illness. We see a very large group of citizens, in Groningen, but also in the premium crime, who do not know where to look for it. They have to survive every day. We see that the elderly, pensioners, all of them do not get an index. Mr. Chairman. When, how and for how long does this Prime Minister have to show?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u68	That's a similar question to Geert Wilders'. Mr Azarkan is also right to mention a number of things that are not good in the Netherlands at the moment. He rightly mentions, indeed, the terrible affair with the childcare allowance and the resolution of the earthquake damage in Groningen. Those are indeed things that are not going well. They need to be better. We have also discussed this in detail. As incoming parties, we spoke to the victims of both crises, both of the childcare allowance and of the earthquake damage in Groningen. I have also already said to Mr Wilders that I repeat to Mr Azarkan: I, that my party, is also proud of what has been achieved over the past eleven years. We have come out of the crisis of 2013, 14, 15. We currently have one of the fastest growing economies. We have already made substantial investments in education, care and have been able to conclude a pension agreement and a climate agreement in the past period, when there was still a little less money available. But if you want to be sure that is my absolute conviction.The basic agreement we have in the Netherlands, namely that our children and grandchildren will get it a little better than their parents and that they will also be able to make their own choices, we will have to further strengthen the foundation of our society, now that the financial space is there. This touches on the four major issues that this new coalition is facing: climate and nitrogen, which, of course, is all part of the housing market called Mr Azarkan, our security and investment in defence, and education. And that education is along three lines: we ensure better education, we ensure better integration into the labour market and we ensure that we reduce the differences and that children from families who are now on average less rapidly flowing into higher education forms, while they could do so in terms of IQ and talent. I think that is essential. We must respond to the meritocracy staircase, which Mr Segers and I discussed in the debate at the General Reviews. That is what I think, in general terms, it has yet to be worked out. This coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u69	This is about trust. The Prime Minister says, "We're up to a lot of things." Sure. A great deal of money has been allocated for this. In a way, you can say that with some money he buys it off a bit and so thinks society can change. But I'm missing a part. In the introduction, I miss the vision of how that works. Let me zoom in on the content of two very vulnerable groups. Not for nothing does the future coalition mention them on the first page. It is indeed about dealing with the problems of the victims and their children. It's really horrible. We actually had a debate today with the Secretary of State on the progress of that handling. Those people are watching now and they say: why is it not about us, why can't this debate continue? That is really terrible, because those people had put their hopes back on that we could take steps today. But then it says we have to speed it up and it has to be better and faster. The question now is to the Prime Minister: what concrete commitment does he make to the victims of Groningen and to the people who watch them get through their day every day because they have not been helped? What specific commitment does he make to these two groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u70	Of course, I'm not here as Prime Minister. Technically, it's good to say that for once. You may address me as Prime Minister, because of course I still am, and I hope to be, but I am not here on behalf of four parties, but on behalf of my own party, and I am trying to defend as well as possible what we put on paper with the four of us. I'd like to say that once. Furthermore, it is no problem for me whether you call me Mark Rutte or group chairman or prime minister. I would have liked to have said that once before the Acts. With regard to the child care allowance affair, which is terrible, the present cabinet has made a whole plan, together with the parents and with the implementation. In the terrible jargon of The Hague, this is called the "re-execution" excuse for the word. A whole action plan has been put in place to ensure that things accelerate and that parents have more personal contact, rather know where they are and so on. Mr Azarkan asks me: can you guarantee some kind of end date? He's asked me that before. I think it would be unfair to mention a date here. This applies both to the child care allowance affair and to Groningen, as we say in so many words in the coalition agreement. There is still such a terrible piece of work to be done, and there are still so many problems to be solved, that it would be unfair. It simply would not be right to say here: on that date I have the guarantee that it has been settled. I can tell you that these four parties, impressed by the discussions we had in Groningen with the victims of the earthquakes and the conversation we had in The Hague with the parents and the victims and the children, are incredibly motivated, just like Mr Azarkan and the entire Chamber, to settle this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u71	First of all, it is in the interests of the Netherlands to have a cabinet. It's good that it's time, so congratulations on that. Our Prime Minister always keeps a nice story, of course, as we are used to him: it is nlp-responsible and you are temporarily hypnotized. After 38 years of VVD membership, I've heard that before. I'm an experienced expert. But I kind of got the feeling that I was listening to Obama. You hang on to his lips and it's a wonderful story, but there's no delivery and eventually the net result is often zero. It's a bit like peeing in your pants: first it's very warm and then you get a less good feeling. The other parties have already said something about living and other things. Let me record it for business. The business community is really getting away with it. I'm a small employer myself. Pay for sickness is two years. The previous election programme of the VVD and the previous government agreement said that we would go from two to one year. It didn't happen. It's in a pen stroke. What will this cabinet do for the employer, for the Dutch business community and for SMEs? It's in there. We're gonna do something. But in concrete terms, nothing is actually mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u72	I also heard the reactions from the employers' group yesterday. I understand that it is also very positive. Why? I think it's for a number of reasons. Let's start with the disease issue and the second year. That is what money is being allocated for, but we also want to try to stay close to the idea building in the Economic and Social Council. So it's more a matter of how you shape that exactly technically, than of whether you want to or not. More generally, if you look at climate policy, I think that there is a government agreement here that is even more ambitious than Europe in terms of issues that lie ahead, the 2030 target, but also beyond. But it also does so in a way that you and I, but also our companies, can experience it. We are doing so, because there is indeed financial space because we have come out of the crisis very strongly, so that we can do so. That doesn't mean we won't notice; we'll all notice it, but we will notice it in a way that we can live our lives as best we can and keep our businesses competitive. This is also reflected in the very limited impact on the costs of companies as a result of climate issues. Shouldn't they do something? They have a lot to do. Certainly the larger companies will have to run the wave from the heavier climate targets that are being set. But that's investing in a modern, clean business. Wherever we can, we help, for example, build a green hydrogen backbone, the backbone of the green hydrogen. But if companies choose not to do so, they will face heavier burdens. This money is, moreover, given to a large part to companies which do comply with the agreements. So I think it is a balanced package, which builds a modern economy and is well received in business itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u73	Of course, this is not a debate contest at the JOVD. I'm asking a question about paying in case of illness. It says two years. It will then be allocated 300 million, which is far from enough. I was so hoping for a simplification of that whole regulation. Here, even in this brief coalition agreement, I read: labour participation, employment and income by labour force, through the Participation Act. Where is something done for the employer? As far as I'm concerned, this is all official nonsense. You're only gonna be a plumber's company or a plaster shop, and you're gonna have to pay for two years in case of illness. That's what's killing these companies. So I ask the question again: what are we going to do about it specifically? Because with the 300 million, we are not going to solve this huge bureaucratic problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u74	That's what I just said. That 300 million is a very substantial sum. In the SER opinion of employers and employees, it is therefore of employees, but also of employers and employers, an approach has been chosen on which we would like to discuss further with those workers and employers. This means that the business will be substantially simplified and cheaper for those companies. However, unlike deleting that second year of illness, there is currently just an ESC opinion on this and on which we will continue to discuss it with the ESC and the employers and employees. That's what we're pulling $300 million for. That is a very substantial amount. So it is not that we do not see that problem, on the contrary, we see that. Only, the question is, how do you best shape that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u75	That's exactly the question: how do you best shape that? In any case, let me say that the 300 million must be well spent, and that we must see a real simplification, including in the reintegration routes, second-track routes and all that kind of bureaucratic towers that the average plastering company really does not understand. That is really bad for Dutch business. I predict the Prime Minister that Dutch companies will vote with their feet. Of course, the average plastering company can't leave, but Shell and Unilever have left. So there is a great task, and the results from the past give no hope for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u76	The average stucco company, which is very important to me, is of course also involved, through its own Brache organizations, in the formation of ideas in the ESC. So it is not that that happens to them and not to them. SMEs-Netherlands and other organisations have concluded agreements on this. This is also in the best tradition in the Netherlands, that employers and employees are trying to reach agreement. We're paying a lot of money for that. I also agree with Mr Van Haga that this should lead to bureaucratic simplification, a reduction in costs and an increase in competitiveness. These are all objectives. But we are also trying to stay close to what has been created in this Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u77	First of all, after this long time, congratulations to Mr Rutte that it seems to succeed. Mr Rutte began his speech with "restoring trust." It seems as if the cabinet has brought a very large bazooka with money, to make sure that the last ten years are put right again. There's a lot of recovery operations going on. But over the last few months we have talked a lot about this governance culture and Mr Rutte's radical ideas, which he has just referred to. It took the four parties more than 250 days to restore that confidence. I wonder whether confidence with the Chamber will also be restored and how Mr Rutte will do so. Over the last three months, despite repeated requests, we have almost no information on the formation. Now Mr Rutte is most likely to be re-appointed as a reformer today. I wonder what he, as a formatter, will do differently in the next few weeks than he has done in the past few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u78	As a formatter? I'm going to perform the D66's motion sneller. I sent a letter to the Chamber yesterday about that. That means we're adjusting some things in the formation process. I'm just looking for what Mr. Dassen is looking for. I hope the formation won't last months. The plan is to be back here soon in January with the government statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u79	Let us explain to Mr Dassen. Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u80	In recent years, we have had a lot of problems with directors through lobbies, revolving doors and cooling periods. The GRECO, of the Council of Europe, states that we have a major problem with political integrity. There are no proposals on how to improve this. I should therefore like to suggest to Mr Rutte that in the discussions with the intended directors he takes on board the fact that there is a cooling-off period, there is a revolving door ban and that financial interests must be properly recorded. I also want him to make a report on this and forward it to the Chamber. Is Mr Rutte prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u81	Many of these things are provided for in the Sneller motion and my cabinet response, but not everything. My idea would be: the Chamber has adopted a motion to further clarify the formation process and thus to strengthen the accountability to the Chamber itself, and we are now doing it all along those lines. There are a number of things that Mr Dassen refers to, but not everything. Let's give that a chance. That really goes beyond other years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u82	I think that's exactly the problem. There is now an opportunity here, because Mr Rutte is being appointed as a reformer today. Now he has a chance to do it another way. I shall therefore table a motion today to encourage Mr Rutte to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u83	Then I'll wait and see. We are now sailing on the compass of how it went plus the improvements as laid down in the motion. That motion has been passed. I also think with Volt's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr Rutte has often said: I have no vision. I think very few in this room disagree with him. Mrs Kaag does, however, have it and I think she wins. In the agreement that is on the table, there is 35 billion going to the climate. There's a lot of money in there already. That's billions, Mr. Rutte, who can't go to any other business. So we cannot give them to care, intensive care, education and all the aspects that we consider so important. But we know that all these measures add up to a range of 0.0 and then a few zeros. It's totally ineffective. If we implement all these measures, the temperature of the world will change at least. So the earth is not saved and the Netherlands gets very much worse. Then my question to Mr Rutte is: are you going to look at the government statement about the effectiveness of the measures and their uneconomic? That's how I knew the old VVD. We are depositing Dutch taxpayers' money into this bottomless pit. Are you going to consider getting that ineffectiveness out of it and the quality of the Netherlands is ultimately what it is about to improve?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u85	I agree with Mr Eerdmans on two points. If only the Netherlands would do something about the climate, it would of course have a limited impact. The Netherlands is about 0.5% of the world economy, so if only the Netherlands would comply with the objectives of the climate agreements and the rest of the world continues to emit, then Mr Eerdmans has a point in itself. I'm glad you didn't. At least in Europe, America and large parts of Asia, far-reaching decisions are currently being taken to reduce these combined CO emissions. This is necessary to prevent the warming. Secondly, he's also right that when you make plans, you should also try to make sensible plans. I think there is a good balance in that. Let me mention a plan, or perhaps repeat it again, which I have briefly pointed out. In the coming years, the world will continue to need oil refining and plastic, steel and chemical production. This will remain necessary in the coming years, perhaps even decades, for our global economy. The question we have asked ourselves is: how can you ensure that those industries stay in the Netherlands and do not go away pollutingly, but that the way they make that stuff is at least clean? Then you have to, and then you use the financial leverage we have, be willing to invest extensively. The question is how to shape that kind of industrial processes with green hydrogen. That touches the ten or eleven largest companies in the Netherlands. These are also the biggest polluters that you don't want to get away with, because if they leave, those jobs will go away and then they will pollute elsewhere. Then Mr. Eerdmans would be right, because that doesn't solve anything. I think that's one of those examples that you can see we're doing that. Another example is energy production. We say: you will have to have space for nuclear energy in the mix in addition to wind and sun over the next few years. That is how we have taken a whole series of decisions. Besides, you don't try to chase hobbies from one party or another. Also my party has a few hobbies. But you try to do sensible things that are effective in the sum total. Mr Eerdmans is right about that too, but I think we are doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u86	It is nice that JA21 is so often right, just at this point. We're just getting started. You mention a number of examples, such as innovation and clean industry. Fine, that's exactly what JA21 can do with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u87	That costs billions, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u88	Yes, but if you do this with that whole package, with that pointless battery of measures, I'll just say it once again, where I think the symbol is above all: we're going to save the world. If you're gonna scrap this, we can save ourselves a billion dollars. Well, then, here's what I'm asking you. You say that we want to be the frontrunner in Europe. Like that's a target. Then who are you here for, Mr. Rutte? Are you here on behalf of the Netherlands, the Dutch interest, or are you here on behalf of Brussels? In any case, this question is a massive one for our constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u89	Then I would like to say to the voters of JA21 that it is in the Dutch interest that this country should become even more competitive than we already are. How do you become more competitive? By building a clean economy, with the industries, which have a license to operate, as it is called in American jargon, and which are able to shape their production. Let me give you one example. These large companies account for about a third of the Dutch CO emission. If you are able to reduce CO emissions in the coming years, they are willing to reduce even more tonnages if we get the funding together, then of course it has a far-reaching impact on CO emissions. Those companies are getting more modern. It leads to an enormous amount of innovation; you can already see that. The Netherlands has one of the most innovative economies anyway, but that will accelerate in the coming years. I have already predicted that by 2030, of the nearly 10 million jobs in the Netherlands, between 1 and 2 million will be possible in sectors where we now have no interest, because we have to make this massive investment with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u90	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij, SGP. Then Mrs. Den Haan and then Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u91	First of all, we also congratulate ourselves on the fact that there is a coalition agreement in this difficult formation period. Mr Rutte has said that if I go into opposition, I will continue as an opposition leader. What would he aim his arrows at if he'd ended up in the opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u92	I wouldn't have had it easy with this agreement. I'd say, "Yes, I wish I'd been in on it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u93	I'll help him. He would say, "What are these expenses? Billions of people are being sprinkled, like it's nothing! We are the party to financial soundness. We do not want to increase public debt and pass the bill on to others. Look at this: the 60% standard is not even being met! What we are addressing other countries, such as Italy and Greece, is going to be over in a number of years. You can't do this, can you?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u94	Well, even Germany is moving towards the 80%. France is now at 115%. Italy's at 160%. The Netherlands now means around 60% of public debt. It is not, of course, the case that we are taking irresponsible risks with public finances. I think we have a prudent financial paragraph on the table. The fact is that the Netherlands is just financially good for it. This is also thanks to Mr Van der Staaij, who supported me in the second cabinet I was allowed to run, but also in the previous cabinet on many points, in order to restore the health of public finances. We are currently one of the fastest growing economies in the world. We are one of the few countries in the world with a triple A rating, one of the few countries in the world that are paying negative interest rates on ten-year government loans right now. That's what we've all achieved with each other. At the same time, you see that, if you want to keep this country competitive in the future and ensure, what is essential for me as a liberal, that future generations are also able to make their own choices, we as a government must now use that financial power that we have, but of course while preserving prudent public finances. That is what we are doing with this agreement to address a number of major issues relating to climate, education and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u95	I'm going back to SGP's. I was just speaking as VVD opposition leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u96	But you can apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u97	But then I still have a concern. I understand the point that we have been given that financial buffer because of cuts and good policies in the years behind, but we cannot continue to spend them. There can also be risks: higher interest rates, things we don't foresee. Nor did the previous coalition agreement say that we would have a coronapandemic. We always have a lot of unforeseen factors. In what way is or are we looking at risks that we can run, that an account is passed on too much or that risks are passed on to younger generations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u98	For example, I am talking to the leader of the SGP............................................................................................................................................................ By meeting them as well as possible and staying close. By making sure that the sovereign debt means something around 60, but doesn't explode. You won't. By working on a structural deficit of 1.75%, which, we think, is prudent. By addressing a number of major issues related to nitrogen in the coming years. Through higher research, university research, climate as well as infrastructure, where we will also have funds available in the years to come. But that ends again, that ends again. You know those expenses are finite; they don't go on forever. That's fund-raising. I also think that is wise, with strict agreements that you devote that to, so that in the end you are, of course, also a long-term economy that can grow, because we have solved climate problems. Because we are a modern economy that other countries want to do business with and where people want to work, including for homes, security and education. Education is, of course, an important supplier of that economy, but people naturally want to develop themselves and all other reasons are why good education is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u99	We will certainly come back to this affordability, but I would also like to ask a question about feasibility. When I read in the main sections such as "in education we get the best out of every student," I understand that you cannot immediately release a feasibility test on that. However, on very concrete points such as the tightening of the climate target to the 55% in 2030, I am curious to see what feasibility test has been carried out to see if this can actually be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u100	It is therefore not a classic government agreement with a full CPB transfer and a total purchasing power plate. It's a coalition agreement. We're picking up input from you today, too. We are about to retrieve input from the debate on the government statement. The various ministers and secretaries of state will be clustered or will also come up with implementing letters in the coming months. Those are all moments when we'll have the conversation. There will also be the question of transfers. That is where the question will be raised, exactly what you say, about the feasibility and the tests to be carried out. That is very well understood and also recorded and foreseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u101	I understand that it requires further implementation and that we can talk about it further, but a coalition agreement is not just a cat bell: well, that's a nice effort to take a closer look. The parties have agreed in concrete terms: we are going to the 55%. It is an example, but it is an important example. I wonder if, before you said yes to that and have you politically bound, we really looked at it: do we have enough technical people to do that, how much time do these processes take, and if we say yes to that, what exactly does that mean for citizens and businesses? How has that been tested before the VVD I speak to Mr Rutte as VVD leader said: yes, we are sure that this can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u102	Based on the information we now have, and had in making the coalition agreement, we have the conviction that it is possible. Mr Van der Staaij is absolutely right that these feasibility tests will be incredibly important in the further detailing of these plans. This can also lead to further clarification and adjustment of policies. We have committed ourselves to these objectives together, but there is also an overshoot in it, because if we add up the plans, we even think that we are going farther than that 55%. That is what we are going to do with each other, even in dialogue with the Chamber. But if we say that we are willing to commit to this, then we have, of course, with each other, even as a VVD, the real picture that is easily feasible. But Mr Van der Staaij is right that this needs to be further worked out. Again, the term "executable test" is very relevant in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group, then Mrs Simons and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u104	Congratulations on the coalition agreement, too, on my behalf. Like some other colleagues, I am just a little cranky because of the purchasing power of pensioners. You won't be surprised. I was surprised to hear you were making some magic with a few figures. You said that pensioners are improving 1% in purchasing power and the workers 1.2% and that this is a difference of 0.2%. But in my calculation example, workers have improved 20% over the last ten years and pensioners stand at -1%. I think that is a difference of 21.2%. My question to you is: why do you, as Rutte IV, leave pensioners in the cold again in terms of purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u105	Once again, the income effect of the coalition package will lead to an increase in purchasing power where the elderly are not much worse off than the workers. If you incorporate that into total purchasing power, you see much greater differences. Mrs Den Haan is, of course, right in saying that there are differences there over the past few years. This has nothing to do with the AOW, because it is fully prosperous and linked, but it has to do with the second pillar of our pension system. In many cases, indexing was not possible. You'd like that, so that the second pillar pensions would also grow. This affects not only the elderly, but also us as workers. You just don't see it, but the extent to which your pension savings are thickened, of course, also works with the workers. But the elderly immediately notice it in their purchasing power. This has to do with ensuring that future generations can also count on that pension. That's why this pension reform, the great masterpiece of Koolmees, is so important. As a cabinet, as a coalition that is in office, we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u106	Sure. However, it does not help to disconnect the AOW from, for example, the increase in the minimum wage. The AOW'ers simply stay on the zero line. That old-age discount doesn't really do much either. But I understand I'm not going to make much progress there. Then I have another question. Maybe you forgot, but a few months ago, we were here as well. At least you were standing there, in box-K. I asked you at the time whether you would like to include an integrated policy on the elderly in the coalition agreement. You promised me that, but I haven't been able to find out. Now my view is that you measure the civilization of a society by how she deals with her elders. I just heard you say to Mrs Ploumen: we are still going to talk about the position of the elderly and pensioners. Is that an open invitation to just deliver that paragraph to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u107	Anyway, if you have any suggestions. In that sense, it is really a coalition agreement and not a classic coalition agreement with CPB bills, execution tests and everything, precisely because we want to have that conversation with the Chamber. It didn't get as thin as we hoped. It didn't get as thick as we feared. It could have been a little thinner as far as I'm concerned, but if you're talking to each other, it's gonna work out a little bit. But you can see that it has a very different character, you can see that in today's debate too, rather than a classic coalition agreement. This leaves exactly the room to have that conversation in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u108	Then I expect that invitation very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u109	It will not surprise anyone that BET1 too has a lot to say about this agreement, but for the moment I am just going to add to the subject. The surcharges and the scandal in this respect are the reason why the cabinet has become missionary. That also makes it so harsh that it is indeed a start-up cabinet with the same people, the same parties, who are going to try to convince us that things are going to be different now. With regard to these parents, I very much wonder whether this cabinet is taking the recovery seriously. It contains fine words about recovery, but I do not, for example, read anything about the report (equally) worthy recovery, written by the parents, young people and children, in which they actually lay down the handles and indicate very well what they need for that recovery. There is no reference to that at all. But even worse is the fact that there is no reference at all to the more than 1,100 children placed out of the house. I have to say in all honesty that I am also asking the question on behalf of Mr Omtzigt. He cannot be here today because of a positive corona test, as he also announced on Twitter, but we do have discussions with each other. There is no reference to the more than 1,100 children placed out of the house. The investigation that is being conducted into this fact is done by the same inspection that is responsible for years of failure, and thus for the disastrous results. Then, of course, we also have the passage that talks about our own contribution to youth care. Imagine yourself: you have misplaced your child on all fronts, you are in trouble because you are a victim of that surcharge scandal, and then you are asked whether you want to contribute a little more €1,000, which you probably don't have, to your unjustly placed children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u111	My question is: how many times can you stab these people in the back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u112	It is right that Mrs Simons should draw attention to this. We have also had extensive conversations with parents as forming parties. A great deal of attention was paid to the issue of children. The fact is that the current cabinet did not wait for the formation, but Alexandra van Huffelen and the cabinet recently completed the re-examination operation, again apologizing for the Hague jargon. It actually affects all the issues: how can you ensure that there is transparency to parents, how can you make sure that parents know where they are and how can you avoid making promises about when it is done that you cannot deliver? That operation also involved parents and experts. A lot of people have talked about it. Indeed, I thought that the debate on this matter was foreseen today and that there was a committee meeting earlier on that letter with Mrs Van Huffelen. What we have actually said as a coalition is: if you want to make it faster, then the last thing you want is a whole new approach. 'Cause then you're sure it'll slow down even more. So we have expressed our confidence in that recalibrate operation and that it can provide the acceleration where possible. Very specific when it comes to the children who are placed out of the house, I would like to say the following. It is an incredibly delicate and sensitive theme with many aspects. This was also discussed with the Chamber by Minister Dekker and Secretary of State Van Huffelen. In this respect, we want to develop this in a very sensible way, including with the Chamber, of course. But that is a very many-faceted issue, which does not entirely lend itself to a brief answer now in a debate on a coalition agreement. But the debate with the Chamber on this will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u113	I understand, and I agree, that we are not going to deal with this in just a few minutes on the basis of an interruption or something like that. But if a coalition agreement is presented, which should above all give rise to confidence, while that confidence has been destroyed in such an incredible way, I would have expected at least a reference to and a little more words on this subject. Of course, that's a process that's gonna take a long time. In fact, that is exactly what I have been arguing about all this time and why I have also tabled a few motions with Mr Van Raan. I have already agreed in debate with this outgoing Prime Minister, or at least the chairman of the VVD's group, that it is about whatever it takes, however long it takes. Here lies an agreement that asks us, the Chamber, but certainly also these parents to give confidence to the cabinet. My question remains: what should we base that trust on when issues like this are not addressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u114	Then let me be very precise. After the talks in Groningen with the victims of earthquake damage, but also after the discussion in The Hague about the surcharge affair, we talked intensively about the question: what is the most sensible thing to do? We have come to the absolute conviction in those talks that it is unwise to say: there will be a new cabinet, new brooms wipe clean and so we will go to a whole new approach. 'Cause then you know what happens. Take the earthquake damage. All kinds of organizations need to be rigged and so on. A great deal has recently been done by the current cabinet to repair both damage and strengthen housing, but also in the childcare allowance affair, a number of actions have been taken by Secretary of State Van Huffelen through the re-examination operation, in consultation with parents and all kinds of other stakeholders, to speed up the process, to make it more transparent and to ensure that parents also have that answer that they need. That is why we have chosen to say in relation to the child care allowance affair: we have confidence in that process, and also in the interests of the parents, when we have a new cabinet, we are not all going to do it differently. That's it on that piece. With regard to Groningen, we have added one aspect that also emerged in those talks: the question of the foundations, which is of great importance for the resolution of earthquake damage. But back to the childcare allowance affair: that's the honest answer. The amount of text can be as long as you want, but what parents want now is speed. They do not want a whole new process, but they want us to make all the agreements that have now been made to speed up those processes through that review operation a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u115	I'm not asking for new trials. I have already said that I agree with Mr Rutte that the last thing that is needed now is for you to tear everything up again and thus delay again. Well, I wonder how to rhyme the following. How are we supposed to sell to the parents who have wrongly lost their child to child care and who have been unjustly placed out of their homes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That own contribution is undesirable anyway, but it will also apply to these parents. How are we supposed to give them the confidence that they're gonna be okay? In addition, there is the review process. There has been talk with parents, but there is also a whole group of parents who are not very happy with the outcome. And there is also a whole group of parents, including parents who are happy with the re-examination process, who have together formulated the answers in a report entitled "Absolutely)worthy recovery." One of the parents called it "our unprecedented injustice in our own words." I think that, as a government, we should attach a great deal of importance to this. I do not see very much how we are doing them justice, based on what is said in this report about the recovery for the parents. So my question is: how are we going to do them justice? Are we really going to ask parents to pay their own contribution of €1,000 because of their illegally placed children?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u116	No, of course that is not the issue at all. Let's break it up for a second. One: Mrs Simons and I agree that we need to carry out the re-examination now and that we need to do it differently. I find it really complicated to go into the depths of debate with Mrs Simons about the 1,100 children placed out of the house, because that is a very delicate subject and incredibly many facets associated with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u117	Like what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u118	I cannot just discuss this with Mrs Simons from the loose wrist in the debate. I can't. I stand here as chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. That debate will take place with Dekker and Van Huffelen. They sent letters about it, too. There is an enormous amount of time spent trying to see what we can do to improve things there. But unfortunately it's not black and white there. It's complicated. That is why that is not something that lends itself to a brief interruption here. But I can assure Mrs Simons that this has extremely high priority and attention from all those involved. Finally, the parents themselves and the ideas that live there. Of course, they also partly ended up in the re-examination operation. I think we agree that it should be given a chance now. We are trying to speed things up, whatever it takes and no matter how much time it takes, as Mrs Simons rightly says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u119	It is very difficult to accept that a cabinet resigns because of a surcharge scandal and then takes almost a year to reach an agreement, and then hear from the captain, the intended new start-up Prime Minister: yes, it is very complicated; I cannot discuss it with you. You are presenting us with a document on the basis of which this coalition asks us: give us the confidence that we will put right all those things that have been so screwed up by ourselves over the past ten years. And now you say: about precisely this occasion for the deportation, for the resignation, that incredible injustice that parents, young people and children have been wronged, I cannot speak with you. It seems to me that it was a great deal during the coalition negotiations. It seems to me that it has been the highest priority when it comes to restoring confidence. Then I find it difficult to accept that I am being told here: let Mrs Van Huffelen and Mr Dekker speak to you about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u121	You are presenting us with a document on the basis of which you ask the Chamber: give us confidence. That is also the question I am asking: give us the confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u122	That concerned only that part of Mrs Simons' interruption which concerned the 1,100 children placed out of the house. That does not lend itself to a quickie here of mine as group chairman of the VVD with my fellow group chairman Mrs Simons. That doesn't lend itself to that. That is the only aspect of her interruption, and I understand that I am not going to respond to it from the loose wrist, because of the delicateness of that issue and the particular complexity of that dossier. That... Mind if I finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u123	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u124	Wait a minute. First, Mr Rutte, and then you will have the floor again, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u125	So that's that bit. With regard to Mrs Simons' wider question about the childcare allowance affair, she is absolutely right that this should be the top priority and that she should be able to ask all the questions about it. I thought that we agreed that the review operation that has now been launched should be given every opportunity to provide the best possible satisfaction to parents and children and all aspects of it. We cannot give any guarantees about speed. I am also pleased that this is recognised by Mrs Simons, although, of course, the operation is aimed at accelerating it. We can talk all about that; that is not a problem at all. I would just like to prevent us from speaking in this debate as chairman of the political group, and I have not gone into all the details now about the 1,100 children who have been placed out of the house, because that is a matter that is being carefully dealt with by the rulers concerned. I don't think it's wise to do that here quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u126	It shouldn't have to be off the loose wrist. It should be top of the line or mind. It should roll from your heart out of your mouth. That's my point. Of course it's complicated, but again, the cabinet has resigned because of this scandal. It should have been the starting point of everything you've discussed, of all the choices you've made and of all the words you've chosen to put them in this document. That's my point. I really do not understand why this document on a whole lot of matters, one of my colleagues, Mr Klaver, said that it has already been worked out in detail, but that you say precisely on the issue at the bottom and at the root of the position we are in today and of the fact that we are debating this today, namely the huge scandal surrounding the childcare allowance, that I do not have that top or mind, I do not have it ready, and I cannot do it out of the loose wrist. It shouldn't have to come out of the loose wrist. It should be embedded. It should be the starting point of what I have in my hand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u127	This concerned only the very serious issue of the children who have been removed from home, not the wider issue of the child care allowance affair. And why do I ask Mrs Simons to understand that this is a very delicate issue? Because it's not black and white with the children who are placed out of the house. This is an extremely complex issue that is being worked on incredibly hard. It is only for that aspect that I ask her to understand that I am not reacting to it now. Mrs Simons is right about the wider issue of childcare payments and the need to restore confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u128	Fortunately, we are not in Brussels when there are painful questions about these removals. The Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, says: "I understand that there is mistrust and that people are thinking: let's see." Then Rutte got a little mad at Klaver, because Klaver made one very important point: what will become the new method? Then it was a bit: but yes, of course we are not going to do a litmus test at one point. So I've been writing with you for a while. There are more points. Yesterday, we saw four coalition leaders, group chairmen, who had agreed with each other: we are doing modestly for the image; that fits best. In the agreement we have read, we saw that everything is presented as if it were natural phenomena: there is a nitrogen crisis, there is a climate crisis, the child care allowance affair has been unprecedentedly wronged by parents. No, if you really take responsibility, then you say, especially since you resigned: the government has done unprecedented damage to innocent citizens and since the resignation it has only got worse; that is a scandal and we take responsibility for it. We also saw that the Rutte imaging machine is also contagious, because all the group chairmen and all the coalition party members we saw had it neatly about: this formation process took too long, but that was because we spent far too long talking about who wants to with whom. They keep quiet about the fact that a Member of Parliament has been lied about hiding away. If this isn't enough for Rutte to understand that there's no trust, I still have a few test cases. Then we can go round the bullshit bingo, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u129	A little shorter, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u130	Nitrogen: for corona, that was the biggest crisis in the career of the then Prime Minister. Two and a half years later, we still have a plan to work out. Is Rutte prepared to share with the Chamber how that happened, so that even after the judge's ruling there was no willingness, will, knowledge or anything else to come up with a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u131	I'm gonna answer that question. I do not go into all of Mrs Ouwehand's other introductory shots, but let it be recorded that I largely disagree with that, not with everything but with a large part. Now I go to her question about nitrogen. That's a fair question. In 2019, in spring and autumn, we were confronted with the fact that the approach that was chosen until then did not stand up in court. This has led to a first very large intervention to ensure that we get that problem under control. What we have analysed in these coalition discussions is that it was insufficient and that much more needs to be done. We now want to take an approach that really brings the problems under control. Funds will be made available for this purpose, and the plans for this will be further developed in conjunction with the Chamber in the near future. We do this for our well-being, for our nature and for the impact it has on the climate. We also do this because it creates the space to build necessary homes, for example, and to build cycle paths, train tracks and roads where necessary. For all those reasons, we're gonna do that. So it's not like nothing happened. We have of course chosen such a whole approach in the autumn of 2019. We have also steered legislation through the Second and First Chambers and allocated a lot of money to, for example, nature restoration. However, we have made the analysis that with a much larger blow we really want to come for that wave of nitrogen. That's just true. Mrs Ouwehand also rightly criticises this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u132	I'm putting another cross on the bingo card. Because what I was looking for was self-reflection. What Rutte the Chamber and the people, who will be able to cough up 25 billion, are trying to sell here again, is: "We did it with the best intentions in the world, but it just didn't work out. Too bad, but we really tried." My firm impression is that all the facts there also indicate that that was not what was going on. The VVD and the CDA were warned. The nitrogen crisis didn't start under Rutte. But Rutte, with his first cabinet, has beaten all the warnings in the wind and cut them in the nature budget. The PAS approach has been implemented. You've been warned, haven't you? So we are already missing the recognition, reflection and way of taking responsibility for the problems we face today. A cross on the unreliable bingo card. Next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u133	Do you want Mr Rutte to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u134	No, because in itself...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u135	No, I have another question about the nitrogen crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u136	One more question and then Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u137	25 billion can now be earmarked for it. That wouldn't have been necessary if Rutte and his predecessors had operated before. But the question is, what does the cabinet send? There are different scenarios. When we read the coalition agreement, it seems to be this so-called area-based approach and the political desire that livestock should actually shrink, but only on the basis of this approach. So the question is: does Rutte IV cabinet send to keep the livestock as large as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u138	No, that's not an end in itself. By the way, Mrs Ouwehand is of course right that the PAS approach was rejected by the judge. It was, of course, an approach to which we decided after a broad political discussion. It was not legally feasible. This has led us to the crisis of 2019. So, apart from the more character-oriented qualifications, which I leave for a moment, it simply has absolutely justified criticism of the previous Cabinets. That is also why we started the approach in 2019 and now want to come up with this coalition agreement for the wave. We want to do that by taking such a big hit now on the problem that we really solve it, including the restoration of nature. So this is going to be a huge issue. That will require a great deal of effort. This requires effort to create clean shipping. This obviously requires a great deal of effort to modernise the agricultural sector and to ensure that in the Netherlands there is a future for a strong agricultural sector for our farmers. But at the same time, we need to dramatically reduce the impact that that has on our climate, on nitrogen et cetera. It's gonna have to be. It costs money. The good thing is that this financial space will be there in the years to come, because we are so strong financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u139	I didn't ask about the facts. I didn't ask if it was true or not that the judge fired that approach. We know that. The question is who takes responsibility for what. I think Rutte and the CDA should just apologize to the farmers. For years, there's been a peasant deception. Now suddenly they are confronted with violent measures. "Excuse me, taxpayer: 25 billion." It is necessary to solve the problems, but not with the approach taken by the cabinet. The accountants have already said: you will send those targets in the short term, before 2030, but because you are not doing well, you will still put a mortgage on the future. So it's 25 billion and then it's a hell of a lot of money. Rutte must, of course, be accountable for this, because it was his conscious choices. He's been warned. Mr. Chairman. My final question concerns the fact that I read in the coalition agreement that the cabinet intends to do something different with the appointments of top officials. I assume that is also about the frustration of citizens about the fact that top officials seem to get away with everything. Even if you've failed, you'll just get promoted. I was wondering if something had been agreed about failing drivers. Maybe I'm wrong, but then Rutte can say something about that. The only advantage of Rutte IV would be that Rutte himself should take responsibility for all the mistakes that have been made, which will soon be the subject of parliamentary surveys. It would be a good thing if, before that happens, he was promoted to some job in Europe! What honourable agreements have been made on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u140	Pff, okay. Mr President, first about nitrogen and at all about taking responsibility if things don't go well. I can assure Mrs Ouwehand that being Prime Minister of this country is all about taking responsibility and also about standing in front of things when things fail. That's what I'm doing here, because then I'm gonna answer for it. Mrs Ouwehand never has to doubt that. It may be that responsibility is sometimes wider, but that ultimately affects me as a foreman, as Prime Minister, in particular. Mrs Ouwehand never has to doubt that. I'll always be available for that. I'll always say that. If things are going well, that's the team. If things don't go well, you should be with me. That's my way of working and that's how I'm gonna keep doing it. Then I come to her second question, namely whether I have ambition for a job in Brussels. I don't have one, not even in the future. My ambition is to do the good things here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr President, I hope you do not count it as an interruption. I just want to say that I didn't ask, but let's put it on the card.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u142	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB and then suspend for a single moment, so that we can stretch our legs for a while. Then we'll go to Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u143	I would like to make two points. One point has indeed already been mentioned by Mrs Simons and others. That's the self-reflection. In the entire coalition agreement, I totally miss a piece of self-reflection. We're talking about restoring trust between citizens and government. But right now, there's a huge divide in society. There's a lot of polarization and a lot of unrest. This is also a cause of low confidence in politics. In the coalition agreement, the word "polarisation" is called zero times. "Twinning" is called zero times. "Unrest" is called zero times. "Uncertainty" is mentioned once and then it is about flex contracts. I'm actually curious how we're going to restore trust in the government. How are we gonna do that if we already have such a big split? Last night, in the Corona debate, I asked the Minister of Health to come forward with a recovery plan, i.e. against the division and against polarisation. And then I just get the answer very bluntly: a recovery plan; we're just working here, you know! That is the answer you are getting, while Mr Rutte and the entire coalition cannot escape the fact that that division is there at the moment. But we don't read anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u144	Apart from the precise words chosen, Mrs Van der Plas is, of course, right. If you have the ambition to form a new coalition from which a cabinet emerges, that also requires an analysis of the situation. In our discussions about, for example, the starting point from which we reason, we also discussed this with each other at different times. This is partly reflected in the introductory texts on the coalition agreement. That has to do with things that haven't gone well in recent years. You also see this in the agreement on Groningen, the child care allowance affair and the wider question of our rule of law and our governance culture. You can see that in several places in the chord. It is also a question of what is needed to restore that confidence. That may not all find its way in the precise words of such a coalition agreement, but it does in our discussions. Mrs Ouwehand said it was a public relations trick to be modest yesterday. No, I feel this way and I can tell from my three colleagues that they feel the same way. It feels wrong and simply inappropriate to say after such a long time: we are actually happy that there is a piece and we are also satisfied with the content. But we present this at a time when so many people in the Netherlands are completely done with corona and at the same time there is little confidence in public administration and politics. And to see four breast-knocking party chefs standing there saying, "Look at us after nine months of producing a beautiful piece"... That's not a PR, that's how we feel. We've discussed that with each other in advance, and we all feel that way. So that's what you see in the tone you choose. That's because we feel it and we find it. We are glad that there is a piece and we wouldn't sign it if we didn't like it ourselves, but the Netherlands will say: bring it on, let's see; what are you going to do about it in practice, are you able to actually come to different proportions and to shape those great transitions that have to take place in society? Mrs van der Plas is quite right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u145	"Mrs Van der Plas is absolutely right about that," but I asked about self-reflection. Because I miss it all over the piece. Looking at the future and looking at each other, that's all fine, but it's actually like when you're sick: a diagnosis has to be made before you can get better. And I miss that diagnosis in the play. The coalition must come up with a diagnosis of what its role is. I am not just talking about the premium affair, about Groningen and about the South Netherlands where people are still waiting for compensation for the water shortage. I am simply talking about the overall confidence that the Dutch people have in the previous cabinet and the confidence that has yet to come in the future cabinet. So I am concerned about this diagnosis, and that was my question last night when I was talking about a recovery plan. How are we gonna do that? What has our role been in that? What are we still doing now to hunt down and facilitate that division, that polarization? And how better are we gonna do that? I believe that this is a first and very important concrete step towards restoring confidence. You don't need expensive consulting firms for that at all. We can just keep those billions in the bag. You just need common sense and the courage to look it in the mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u146	Thank you. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u147	So my question is: is that going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u148	Not the recovery plan you're sketching. I wouldn't be for that. Then I agree with what Hugo de Jonge.... I did not follow that part of the debate.......................................................................................................................................................................................... The discussions we have had with each other in drawing up the coalition agreement and the analyses we have made with each other may not all find their way in the exact texts of the agreement, but you will see them and reflect on what we want to do. The same applies to the debates we have had in the Chamber. We have also had intensive discussions here over the last few months on how we deal with each other and on what is important in the relations between Chamber and Cabinet. How are we going to reduce the gap between coalitions, parties, ministers and State Secretaryes and get rid of these closed, thick government agreements and submit all kinds of Monday mornings? And I'm sure you'll see a minister wandering through the building looking for support. I can't guarantee that's gonna stop, because that's just part of it. But no more shadow ministers' councils on Monday morning with group chairmen, so that the political primacy moves back to the Council of Ministers. That discussion and the extensive discussions we had with each other after the collapse of the cabinet about the child care allowance affair are all moments when we looked in the mirror together, Chamber and Cabinet. That's a big deal. So I'm not in favour of writing one of those pieces that Mrs Van der Plas is pointing out right now. I'd be against that. I do agree with her that this analysis is important. So we've made them with each other, and that's why you're making policies. But this has been going on in public for a long time. Those conversations take place here from the fall of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u149	Well, well, I see the new momentum is still to talk a lot about concrete questions. I hope that will be better in the future. At least we'll be on top of that. I have another point, and that is about the restoration of nature. In the coalition agreement I read that the word "agricultural land" will be changed to "landscape land," implying that the farmer will soon become the manager of a park in the Netherlands. I wonder how the coalition is going to prove these natural goals. At present, Natura 2000 sites are not monitored and measured at all. So what can happen later? Any farm, not just a farm, in the vicinity of a Natura 2000 site, can be the victim of someone in the Netherlands who says in court "nature is deteriorating there." And the judge will be able to withdraw the licence from all companies because it says "nature is deteriorating." We do not know at all whether this is true or whether nature is deteriorating. There's no monitoring. How's the new coalition gonna do that? I predict that there will be very big problems at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u150	I think this is a very relevant point. Of course, all this needs to be worked out. It is not true that there is now a plan to spend 25 billion to 2035 on nitrogen with all the details. Nature restoration is a very large part of this whole issue. Moreover, I do not agree with what Mrs van der Plas says about the name of farmers. I've been talking about "our farmers as landscape managers" since the beginning of my political career. Apart from the fact that they run beautiful commercial companies, they also ensure that we live in the 92% of the Netherlands that is not cultivated, insofar as that is not nature, in a country in which that landscape takes place. There are cows, or there are crops on them, but that is of course also part of the country's landscape value and beauty. In my opinion, farmers are only proud to do so, in addition to the fact that, of course, they are simply running a commercial business. So I don't think that's a bad name at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u151	I wasn't talking about landscape managers, because they are. They're earth dusters. That's what you can call them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u152	What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u153	They're earth dusters, too. But that's not what I was talking about. I was talking about turning the word "agricultural land" into "landscape land," so we're actually kind of saying goodbye...Agricultural land is just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u154	A little shorter, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u155	Mr Klaver and everyone here have made extensive explanations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u156	Still.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u157	I wasn't going to. When I talk about farmers, I get all excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u158	I know your enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u159	It is therefore the word 'agricultural land'. This is going to be "landscape land," which actually pushes food production a little to the side. I call for it to continue to be called 'agricultural land' and 'natural land'. That's a real difference. Anyway, that is absolutely not the most important thing; that was just something I noticed. What matters to me is to measure those nature goals. Because that's just a fact. The PBL says so himself. It needs to be monitored. They've been asking for a scientific committee for years. I do not understand why there has been no one among four parties, including at least two parties who have often raised themselves as an agricultural spirit, who says: we can all do that, we can give away billions of nitrogen, but if we do not even know exactly what nature is like in these Natura 2000 areas, what are we actually doing? That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u160	I'm picking up on that. I do not think that is unreasonable at all. I would just like to point out that with this coalition agreement there is not an elaborate nitrogen plan of 25 billion, with all the details and so on. We, the minister responsible, will have to continue to do so in the near future, together with provinces, with of course all nature organisations and everyone involved. This is what I'm gonna think about and I'm gonna get advice on this particular point. But it's not like we missed something in a fully developed nitrogen plan, because that's not ready. This is, of course, all work in progress that needs to be taken up in the near future. So I'll keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u161	I do hope so, because we are talking about tens of billions spent on nitrogen problems. I sincerely hope we know what we're doing. I do find it worrying that no one within this current coalition has called that bell, like: boys, we don't really know how things are going there in those Natura 2000 areas. It is not yet known at all whether that nature is going backwards, but it is already just a big pot of money being put into it. I will give you that. Mr Rutte does not have to respond to that. I suppose he does take this to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u163	I shall now give the floor to Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having taken note of the report of the informators J.W. Remkes and W. Koolmees and their opinion on the formation of the Cabinet;]] [[takes on board the content of this opinion;]] [[appoints Mark Rutte as a formatter with the task of forming a cabinet consisting of VVD, D66, CDA and ChristenUnion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rutte, Mr Kaag, Mr Hoekstra and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u166	I shall suspend for one moment and then give the floor to Mrs Kaag of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u167	The next item is the final report by the informers. I now give the floor to Mrs Kaag of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank the informers Koolmees and Remkes for the great work they have done. We have put their patience to the test and the same has already been said by the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Thanks to the negotiators and all the teams of the parties VVD, CDA, ChristenUnion and of course my own party D66 is here, as far as we are concerned, a nice and balanced coalition agreement. I would also like to thank the informers for their stamina, their creativity and for their occasional interventions of "no nonsense" and "now forward with the goat," to put it this way. There is one informant who has also played an important role in this. We needed it, and we're here now. D66 has begun these negotiations with the adage "we are doing well or we are not doing it." At the end of the journey I asked myself and the group the question: does this respect our promise? Is this good enough for the country? Is this a reasonable compromise between four parties with different electoral programmes, but with one main objective: to do for the future of the Netherlands, for our country. Is this in the national interest? My answer is yes: this is a balanced, ambitious, progressive and social agreement for D66. Climate recognition four years ago is now becoming a climate acceleration, with a CO reduction, in implementation, of around 60% in 2030 and major investments in clean energy, and for clean air and low energy bills. We invest almost four times as much in education as the previous cabinet. We invest in almost-free childcare, in teachers and students, in students and also, oh so important, in science and in knowledge and innovation. We say yes to a greener, safer and stronger Europe and yes to a leading, positive Dutch role. For me personally, that is also an essential change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u169	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mr Wilders of the PVV. He still has the opportunity to answer two questions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u170	Do I only have two more questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u171	Everyone has eight moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u172	May I borrow some from Mr. Rutte? Okay. Mrs Kaag says: is it good for the Netherlands? I'll give you the answer. What you have agreed and what your party stands for is a disaster for the Netherlands. It is, of course, very handsome that you have had your delusions in Mr Rutte's head. You'll have to tell me exactly how you did that. Was he asleep? Wasn't he around a lot? Did you put a magic potion in his coffee? I would like to know, because it is unbelievable that you have received so much of your delusions in the head of the Prime Minister and negotiator Rutte. But it is not good for the Netherlands, because you are destroying the Netherlands. Since you are now the woman and the political leader who has unfortunately won the negotiations, you are also, let me rephrase, your party D66 is also the biggest danger to the Netherlands. You're destroying the Netherlands. You are ensuring that we only get more immigration, that we get more asylum, that we get more Europe, that we get more terrorism, that we get more headscarfs and that we get less freedom. That's what D66 stands for: less Netherlands. So cut the crap about climate and nitrogen. This is what you stand for. Here's what's gonna happen. And why? Actually, I don't even have a question. For the sake of politeness, let me put one question to the lady. Why is there this urge in your party to break down the Netherlands like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u173	The thesis on which Mr. Wilders bases his entire argument, I absolutely do not share. We're looking at the facts. It is important for the Netherlands to play a leading role in Europe from an economic point of view. Climate. As for many other countries, it is a need, an urgent need, to act now, from a health point of view, to address the social and environmental consequences and the loss of biodiversity, and to act bearing in mind the Paris agreement that we signed in 2015. This is about humanity and the viability of nature. A third example is the rule of law. In this coalition agreement, we are investing in strengthening the rule of law. In particular, we are taking action against the greatest threat of drug crime, which undermines the rule of law, but we are also investing in social law. These are plans that, as far as we are concerned, are good for the Netherlands and are in Dutch interest. As far as I am concerned, I would like to leave aside your remarks about people who, by faith, cover their hairs. You have your views on this, which I find reprehensible, but that is not relevant to this debate. There is a beautiful, ambitious, balanced and forward-looking coalition agreement, on which we always hope to enter into cooperation with many parties in this Chamber. There is always room for improvement, especially through dialogue and never through the removal of people or populations in our society, which you have been making your political earning model of for 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u174	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u175	You'd be helping the Netherlands if you lifted that party of yours today. Once again, D66 is the worst thing that has happened to the Netherlands in the last half century. You deny the Dutch identity. You only want to see it in the coalition agreement more Europe. You want to abolish national veto rights. You want less Dutch culture. You are resisting all your punctuality against everything that has to do with our culture. Every day you bring hundreds, if not thousands of people into the Netherlands, who have no business here and who bring a culture that runs counter to the freedom of women, of gays, of apostates. That's what Islam does, and you don't care. You come here with stories about climate and nitrogen. You are now making a big party with your party, Madame, I must admit; 24 seats in the Netherlands are completely destroyed. And you should be ashamed of that, because that is not what we are here for. We are here to stand up for Dutch interest. You can sit down and laugh nervously, Mrs Kaag. You can laugh at me too. But believe me that there are millions of people in the Netherlands who do not want us to lose our country, who do not want us to lose our culture and who do not want them to become strangers in their own street, their own neighborhood, their own country. And that is what you do with your open borders and with your elitist policies. It doesn't bother your constituents and yourself. You will undoubtedly not live in a neighborhood next to an asylum-seekers' centre. With your wallet, you won't be affected by cutting back on care immediately. You don't have to worry about us bringing more terrorists to the Netherlands. You are an elitist, horrible, horrible club, but the average Dutchman suffers from that madness of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u176	Do you know, Madam President, why I had a smile on my face? I was thinking: which of these factually incorrect and unsubstantiated points should I pick up? Shall we talk about the National Historical Museum, which is now in this coalition agreement, to celebrate the history and evolving identity of the Netherlands? History. Know your history. Two. Of course, there will be a slavery museum. Why? The Netherlands also has a history, an ugly history, in the slave trade. It's also part of your identity recognition, recognition, knowing where you come from, what you did right and what you did wrong. Shall we talk about migration? Well, there's going to be a very strict approach to the presence of those who can be proven to have absolutely no right to be here. The final part of this approach is an undesirable statement. That does not mean that we people are sitting here on buses or flying in. People come here on their own. We want the right of asylum for those who flee violence and war. Take, for example, the convert or the refugee who is Ihbti. They are entitled to protection in the Netherlands. That is what we want to maintain. And yes, we are just taking on the troublemakers, to do something about it for the Dutch people, whoever they are, Mr. Wilders, through the chairman of the committee. Then I have a third: the future of the Netherlands needs high-quality education. Recently, I have often seen in debates that history has been played down in a terrible way. Good education is not only learning to calculate and write, but also discussing and citizenship, so who we are, what we stand for, the rule of law and democracy. There is a place for everyone who is Dutch in the broad, tolerant, inclusive way. Look in the big cities and look in the villages. The Dutch population is changing. Yes, change is frightening, but we are here to take care of everyone and we are not ruling anyone out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u177	Thank you. Then there are a number of follow-up questions. First of all, Mrs Marijnissen of the SP, then Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA and then Mr Azarkan of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u178	The National Historical Museum fell. It is a good thing that this has been incorporated into the coalition agreement. We very much hope that it will be possible to achieve it now. My question to Mrs Kaag concerns the confidence she has in Mr Rutte. Maybe that won't surprise her. Mrs Kaag said earlier: this is where we separate our ways. There was also a motion of censure. Later she gave another speech in which she indicated that you should not let political managers go on for too long. Well, we're standing here today because Rutte IV is presenting the coalition agreement. This means that a political manager, Mr Rutte, together with Mrs Kaag, can continue to do so. How come, I would like to ask Mrs Kaag. What exactly happened to restore that confidence? I heard you tell me on television yesterday that you have real confidence in it with Mr Rutte. What happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u179	I appreciate Mrs Marijnissen's question. I can assure you that money is also reserved for the National Historical Museum, as is for the Slavery Museum. I am therefore pleased that this can be supported. This has been a very long process. We've come a long way since April 1st. I think we've all experienced that as a very difficult day and night. I do not want to repeat all the debates. One of the previous formation debates was in my opinion more about the Schoo lecture and less about the report of the informant at the time. What has happened is that Mr Rutte and I have certainly spent a lot of time together. We have shared our personal and professional perspectives from the Dutch interest and the importance of cooperation between parties who still dare and want to take responsibility, perhaps in spite of the circumstances and the great challenges we have. I've also noticed in conversations... forgive me, but that's how I look at it... that if you can get into trouble with people you have to get into from a long way because you've taken such different positions and had difficult debates with each other... you'll have a much stronger relationship of trust than you often have with those you thought you could trust... and that sometimes you can not just abandon at crazy moments, but can also disappoint. That's how I look at it as a human being and as a politician. So that's what happened. Am I saying it's always going well and it's going to be easy? Mr Rutte won't say that, and I won't say that, but it's part of the deal. Mr Rutte remains the party leader of the VVD. I'm the party leader of D66. We don't agree on all fronts. In this agreement, too, on the main lines, you see the search for a compromise along a high bar. We have not sought the compromise of the lowest common denominator. We're trying to be as ambitious as possible. There are pain limits for everyone, but we all dare to stand for it. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u180	So I think this is why people are losing faith in politics. Mrs Kaag gave an extensive discourse on the personal discussions she had with Mr Rutte. She says it's been an incredibly intensive process. I'd like to believe that. But, of course, it is at odds when you say in a lecture "political managers should not be able to go on for too long" and then legitimize it by getting into a cabinet that allows the same political manager to go on. Rutte IV consists of the same parties, the same ideas and the same people who are now starting from Rutte III. Does Mrs Kaag realize that this means that she is putting the trust that is very low at the moment; less than 30% of the Netherlands has confidence in the government, which is a huge problem at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u181	With our 24 seats we have a relevant, but also modest contribution. Politics is all of us. Of course, these four parties are taking a risk by saying: we dare to agree on this, we dare to stand for it, and we also dare to be taken seriously by the electorate on the results we are trying to deliver. I hear Mrs Marijnissen say that we in this Chamber have no responsibility in our entirety as a Member of Parliament. As far as I am concerned, confidence in politics is also very much about this House of Representatives. I'm talking about the tone of the debate, cooperating, cooperating, cooperating constructively, finding solutions with each other and not falling into the old-fashioned "I'm opposition, you're coalition, so let's just fight each other out." I also think this is something we should discuss from the Chamber. As a citizen, although it was from abroad, when I looked at Dutch politics, I always drew one conclusion. I just did that as a viewer. I believe that Mrs Marijnissen is longer in politics, either locally or nationally, than I am. It always seemed to be the same strings, songs and predictable patterns. I'm in it now. It is also up to me and my party to try to change that. So I understand what you're saying, but we're all on the move, not just the parties that signed a coalition agreement. You can also see this in the reports of various reformers. You can also see it on page 1 of the introduction of the coalition agreement. We're all there. So I am also doing a hand-picking to Mrs Marijnissen: let's do this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u182	Mrs Marijnissen, you have two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u183	Yeah, let's do this together. But the beauty is that people still see those predictable patterns she saw as an outsider in politics. People see that a cabinet resigned last year because of a surcharge scandal, not because we sent the cabinet away, but because it itself said: we made such a gross mistake and that was so serious, so we have to leave. Mrs Kaag himself resigned as Minister because things had gone quite wrong in the evacuation in Afghanistan. She said, "I have to go." And what do people see now? That those same parties with the same people just return. Mrs Kaag says: we have to do it together and it is really up to the Chamber. Then I would like to ask Mrs Kaag: how do you think this debate is going to run from 10.15 a.m. this morning? We have indicated that we have done so, but I believe that more opposition parties have done so, and that the concern for us is really a pain. Well, we heard, there's nothing possible. Another important point is solving the surcharge scandal. Nor is there any initial solution for human beings. I would like to ask Mrs Kaag the following. It's quite easy, I think it's too easy to put it here in the Chamber, while you're on your own initiative, while you legitimize that political manager, who you said we shouldn't give him space for too long... that's what you're organizing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u184	I am not going to repeat what I said at one of the previous debates that seemed to be entirely devoted to the Schoo lecture. Since it concerned 25 pages on climate, education, what we can do about administrative culture and national identity, I would like to say to Mr Wilders, I hope it will be read again. Because it's way more than the sum of three, four quotes. But more importantly, I think that Mr Rutte as party leader of the VVD was right when he said about the surcharge scandal that a whole package of work was recalibrated by Demissionary Secretary of State Alexandra van Huffelen. We have also been able to spend time with the parents and children affected by the supplement scandal. A lot of things have been taken. Not everything can be summarised in one paragraph, but know that this remains one of the priorities. Then there is Mrs Simons' question to Mr Rutte. I understood his reaction, because with two hats, it's hard to operate. It's incredibly important. We have had a lot of discussions, also through the lens, bearing in mind the reason why the Rutte III cabinet resigned from the crisis of confidence which is widely felt in the country, not just in politics. There is the broader polarisation that Mrs Van der Plas also talked about. Then there is the question of Mr Klaver's request. There are times in this process that I believe we need to be able to talk even more carefully about care, about planning for care, about the necessary reform to continue to pay both climate, education, security, everything we have to do for the country, in a high-quality way. There are still conversations about that. There's gonna be a government statement. There's gonna be a ruler. There's gonna be a spring note. There are so many times when we can do this much more carefully with each other and talk about the interpretation. What I regret in the remark I heard about the concern is that it is being made as if there are now acute cuts. Follow-up is given to the need to keep high-quality care affordable in the longer term. This period is, on the contrary, being an additional investment. We're looking at less growth in the longer term. That's a whole different story than what I hear sometimes, and I'm just sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u185	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u186	Mrs Kaag herself does not know exactly what is in her coalition agreement.... I would advise her to look at that again.. or she is not speaking the truth here. But it can't be both true. There is indeed the structural austerity of nearly 5 billion announced for later, but also for now there are a lot of mins. I have just listed them all, of which fewer staff in the nursing homes may still hurt the most. But also the cuts in youth care, where waiting lists are long, and the cuts in disability care and mental health care are all for the coming period in your coalition agreement. So I'm gonna ask you again. Or you didn't read it properly. Or they were all typos. It's possible. Then we can make a lot of people happy today. Or you're not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u187	I did not list every budget line as you did, I say to Mrs Marijnissen through the President. I have indicated that there is less growth in the much longer term. We all know from various reports from health councils and other institutions that they have been asking for a long time: politics, look at this, make choices. A step is now being taken between the various parties to make this possible, but there will be a lot of discussions and discussions. But I also have a question. It was argued as if an own contribution would be expected...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u188	Excuse me, could you keep your voice down in the room? Thank you. Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u189	It was pretended that a personal contribution to youth care would be expected very quickly. I checked it again. It says: In order to achieve these savings, measures are taken such as normalizing the treatment time..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But the amount that was frequently mentioned is nowhere to be found in the documents. That also indicates... Mr. Chairman. I'm a little older, but I'm not deaf. I only have difficulty concentrating when there is continuous voice from left and right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u190	I would like to point that out. It was not only the right side, but also the left side of the hall. It's a very hearing room, so could you turn it down a little bit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u191	This also indicates that, for example, these kinds of points of discussion, difficult points, need to be clarified and discussed, especially in the follow-up steps that will follow. This is also the open space that is offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u192	Thank you. Mrs. Marijnissen, you have no more interruptions. I give Mr. Klaver...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u193	But Mrs Kaag asked me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u194	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u195	No, that question wasn't for Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u196	No, you've been there before. I would like to give the floor to Mr Klaver. He had a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u197	The concern is an important point. I notice that some things are spoken along each other's throats. That's because the sequence in the table "I'm now looking at Mr Koolmees on purpose, because he knows exactly what it's about on page 5 of the annex but runs until 2026. Then all of a sudden, it's structural. The coalition claims it's going to run sometime in 2050, but we can't see that in that series. There's a whole series of them underneath. I would actually like to ask you, Mr President, that is my point, or the Bureau's speech cabinet formation, which can be sent to the Chamber for a moment. Then we can discuss it on the basis of the facts, because otherwise it will only remain images.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u198	I'm gonna run this right through. I hope we will have an answer to that. I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u199	Behind the budget line youth care is hidden a lot of grief and suffering from a lot of children and their parents. This is the moment when we can undo the proposed austerity, which it is indeed capable of, Mrs Kaag, who has just read out herself on youth care. Asking for your own contribution or cutting back on a form of care that is already under such pressure is simply unacceptable. This is the time to admit that this is a wrong plan for this new coalition and to abandon it. Simple question. Simple answer possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u200	It's not that simple a question. It's a fair question. There have been many opinions; there has also been the opinion of the Committee of Wise Men. In the first instance, additional resources will be made available, but there are also consultations, especially with the municipalities and also at national level, to see where the highly specialised care, such as youth care, can be better provided and made available, how this should be regulated and where the type of youth care can be achieved on the basis of the criteria. This is a complex matter. I and, of course, the coalition parties share the concern of Mrs Ploumen and many of this Chamber, but I also think that we should always ensure that this kind of care is available to those who need it, who often come from vulnerable families, but not always. The waiting times and waiting lists in the care are unacceptable for a rich country like the Netherlands. So we have to look carefully at this, but this is the initial choice that has been made. It's been a long time. But again, there are still many moments to take everything we should now and perhaps to reconsider things, from the point of view of content, as Mrs Ploumen also points out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u201	You had hoped that it had already been carefully looked at and that it didn't have to happen again. But I have another point. D66 has always voted against proposals to get children out of Moria hell in recent years. That must have been painful. That's what we've been able to see. This agreement was an opportunity to do things differently. In fact, Mrs Kaag said in an interview I quote her literally: "I can assure you that under my leadership in a next cabinet we will no longer vote against such plans." If I now read what is in the coalition agreement, I can only conclude that Mrs Kaag has continued under the yoke of the VVD when it comes to sheltering vulnerable people. I wonder how the hell she let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u202	Well, sheltering vulnerable people... When Mrs Ploumen talks about refugees or internally displaced people, she sees that there is additional money for the budget of development cooperation, unlike other years in which there has been a significant reduction. That wasn't in Rutte III cabinet. There is more money, also for better care in the Netherlands. That is also something that Mrs Ploumen and I, I think, share. There is more money for shelter in the region for vulnerable refugees. At the same time, for the first time in 20 years, the UNHCR quota will be increased from 500 to 900 on the basis of a comprehensive package of asylum and migration arrangements. This is precisely in order to be able to act in such situations, even on request, possibly in a European context. This is the first and last increase since 2001. Mrs Ploumen was not in politics at the time, nor was I, but it is the first time in twenty years that the quota has been increased in the Netherlands. That's also a breakthrough. This quota can also be used for the reception of people, for example in Moria, but we do so in coordination with UNHCR. Is everything perfect? Absolutely not. I'll be the first to admit that. We are a coalition of four parties with different beliefs, but the decision to increase it has been very important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u203	Last question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u204	From 500 to 900 people, according to that agreement, it is only possible if all kinds of right-wing measures are taken. So first we need to take measures to keep the number of people who can find shelter in the Netherlands as low as possible and then perhaps there will be room for the people, the children, who are still in that hell of Moria. So there's no progress in that. I regret to say that the promise made by Mrs Kaag herself did not come true when it comes to the children who are still in the mud and misery there in Moria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u205	I would like the world's misery to be limited to Moria, but there are also people in Yemen, there are internally displaced people in Syria, there are millions of refugees in what is called the 'Syria region'. Think of Jordan and Lebanon. There are so many vulnerable people and we need to keep doing much more. But asylum and migration policy in the Netherlands is aimed at a more stable asylum chain with faster procedures. This is also in the interest of the approximately 30,000 people who are still knocking on the door every year in the Netherlands. We are also committed to a broad, effective and human European migration policy, which should include asylum. This also means that we can act differently in humanitarian crises on the Greek islands. Because Mrs Ploumen rightly mentioned Moria's example, but we also continue to abide by international treaties and we are really looking at all the recommendations of the Van Zwol committee. In the case of asylum and migration, you can never take one example; it is the whole picture, the whole story. When I look at that story, I say that was a difficult deal between the four parties. But we have also sought progress, protection and the duty of returning those who have absolutely no right to stay here, to make room for those whom we are so eager to receive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u206	First Mr Azarkan van DENK, then Mrs Simons, then Mr Klaver, Mr Dassen and Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u207	I would also like to begin by congratulating Mrs Kaag. She did it: in a few weeks she's gonna be on the porch as a deputy prime minister. She went into the election under the guise of "new leadership." She said: "It really has to be different in the Netherlands." She also spoke harshly on 1 April about a Prime Minister, the leader of the VVD, Mr Rutte: "a pattern of forgetfulness." Afterwards she was critical, not so long ago. She said, "This is someone with little empathy, no humanity, and that's why it went wrong in society." She said about the Christian Union: "That's a rusty car; we shouldn't want that anymore. It's time for us to do it differently." I'm a little mixed up with disappointment and admiration, because how can you spin so much? Perhaps Mrs Kaag can teach me that so that I can be more flexible in that. Because I myself find that there is a different view of this in society. So what is it, other than the responsibility, because I understand exactly what Mrs Kaag has said: I am going to extradite the Netherlands to someone who has been destroying society for ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u208	I think that the quotes are partly for the responsibility of Mr Azarkan, but also the interpretation. I do not have much to add to everything I have already said and explained. It is a question of responsibility, of restoring confidence in politics and government, but also in local government. We all have to do that. That is not turning, but making difficult choices, taking responsibility and saying: I am doing this in full confidence with Mr Rutte, Mr Hoekstra and also Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u209	These are all meaningless lessons learned by Mrs Kaag, who says: I am not going to respond anymore. Perhaps Mrs Kaag should. I am simply asking a question here, namely: how can society, which looks at politicians and who hears in election time that the new leader of the Netherlands is here, who is depicting himself with all kinds of promises and who is tough about what is needed in that society, sees a lot of money and a lot of plans in the coalition agreement? Where'd the soul go? Where is this humanity? What's it in? What makes Mrs Kaag deliver the Netherlands again to Rutte for the next four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u210	Two things. It is not always easy to involve the soul in a coalition agreement. I do not know whether we succeeded in doing so during the negotiations; I say this quite honestly. More important are not only the intention of the title but also what we say about the society that we need to see, where you are acting against racism and discrimination, and where you are acting against women hate, anti-Semitism, anti-Muslim hatred. This is a civilised society, which is also forgiving, which gives each other space and where the rule of law is central. And no, there's no extradition. There have been elections and Mr Rutte has won them with the seats and Mr Rutte is the leader of the VVD and has been or is being nominated. As I said earlier, we had very important discussions at difficult times. As two parties and two mature people, we continue this cooperation in good faith. I think it's also good for adults to be able to say: this didn't go well and that did. We all have to do that. I always start with myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u211	Let us then zoom in on the content on two points, because those are fine words, and I know that Mrs Kaag really means that. I refer to the approach to discrimination and I look at the coalition agreement, the coalition agreement or whatever it is called. EUR 0.5 million has been included for this purpose. Speaking of details! 0.5 million euros is a tip to tackle something that affects 27% of the Dutch. That's a dime. I submitted an own-initiative paper on how to deal with Muslim hatred. I liked what Mrs Kaag said about it during the presentation of the coalition agreement, but there was no D66; your party was not even there. So what are those beautiful words when I see that this is a tip or that they really fail?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u212	Addressing discrimination, racism and exclusion requires a broad approach in all areas of the coalition agreement, whether it be the housing market, education, the labour market or ethnic profiling, which, unfortunately, many people experience. So you shouldn't just see it through the lens of the amount you mentioned, absolutely not. There's a lot more. It is also a change, precisely to tackle institutional racism and to have zero tolerance. That requires behavioral change and education. This also requires money to be deployed across the board. Of course, we can talk about that. Frankly, I don't know why D66 wasn't present in the course of your own-initiative paper. But I'll go read it. If you'd like, I'll let you know if I have any comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u213	The votes have already been taken, but thank you for doing so. Finally, I would like to make one final point. It says that the strengthening of control from the Lower House is very important in the new administrative culture. That's a good point. I do not understand how this relates to the rigging of all kinds of funds, namely a nitrogen fund and a climate fund. We already have a growth fund. The total amount involved is 80 billion, which makes control from the Chamber more difficult. In 2016, the General Court wrote a whole electoral report on this. He says, "Don't do that, do it through the regular budgetary principles." How does Mrs Kaag view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u214	I think there should be several ways in which we take all these points, especially since the funds have not yet been rigged. Of course, we also need to look carefully at what the General Court says about this and how we can take the entire control function of the House of Representatives with us anyway, because it is so important. It's a lot of money. It is about the future and choices in investment. It is important that the House of Representatives be included in all steps. This is also, I think, a point to discuss again in the declaration of government or the spring note. I don't know what an appropriate moment for that is right now. But thank you for this comment. We'll take it with us. I also think that the other coalition members will take this with them for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u215	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u216	These are all generalities. I did not have the impression that Mrs Kaag understood my point exactly. I think it is true that the coalition agreement has agreed that funds will be provided. Those funds are evading more, because we cannot see how they relate to Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. We don't know what happens to money that's left either. They do not go back to the general reserves; they do not go back to them. It's just a general principle: you can't have both. If you think that the control function from the Chamber should be properly guaranteed, then you cannot do so through funds. So my question is: what is Mrs Kaag's view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u217	This is not a question of vision. A choice has been made to release additional resources in a way that will prove manageable and affordable. Another fund is being rigged for that. But nothing's been written yet. So I say to you: in this so-called 'design phase' there are still many times when the Chamber will be taken over and so the control function of the Chamber will be secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u218	Thank you. That was your last interruption. I give the floor to Mrs Simons, then to Mr Klaver, then to Mr Dassen and then to Mrs Ouwehand. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u219	I can hear Mrs Kaag say, 'It sounds in everything as if she thinks from her heart that she is happy with this agreement.' It is a balanced, progressive and social agreement. Of course it is a compromise; there is no other way. But Mrs Kaag's starting point was either we do it right or we don't. They're hopeful and powerful words. They do make me look at a number of passages in this agreement and raise questions. I would like to concentrate for a moment on the part Mr Azarkan also mentioned: combating institutional racism. "For institutional racism there is no place in our society. We are fighting against ethnic profiling." What does that mean in a context of "I want to say that right away" which includes the word "wrong"? It's in the same agreement. That is basically the criminalisation of illegality. This is, by the way, a criminal offence which, of course, D66 has been against so far. Let me start with that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u220	I don't have the coalition agreement in front of me right now, but I do know where it stands. I think it's two things. I can see the risk Mrs Simons is taking. I see that, bearing in mind the issuing of a junk declaration, it might be on the wrong basis of personal data or external characteristics that someone would profile. I'm against ethnic profiling. I am thinking here of the case against ethnic profiling by the military police, which I believe D66 council member Mpanzu has recently won. That's what this is about. The undesirable statement from the asylum and migration chapter you are referring to is, of course, a criminal sanction which is intended as a final part of a series of steps for someone who has completed the asylum chain, who has been tried out, comes from a safe country, but does not cooperate in return and who knowingly does not want to return to the country of origin. This can then be the last resort, but only after a very long, careful procedure with many reviews. Those are actually two completely different worlds. I think we should be very careful so that we do not mix them in this debate. But the point of concern that you have, namely that it might go wrong in practice for once and that someone is de facto ethnically profiled, I dare never rule out. However, these are two other paths.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u221	The reason I can't separate them is because we live in a reality where ethnic profiling is common. You already referred to your partymate. In fact, ethnic profiling is currently tolerated. The police have decided independently that she's going to quit, despite the court's ruling. But we know that cops who send racist apps in groups aren't punished for that. They don't even get a sanction. We know it happens. In my opinion, it is extremely dangerous to have such morally reprehensible ideas, I think, that is to allow a personal qualification to be maintained in a context in which we have not yet dealt with ethnic profiling. My question to Mrs Kaag is really what makes it for her agreement that this is in this agreement. Because I know that her party has actually spoken out against it in earlier instances when this was on the table. I understand that such an agreement is a compromise, but there are, of course, several points on which you can accept a compromise. As long as we haven't dealt with this... For example, I did two weeks ago, on November 25...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u222	Could you keep it a little shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u223	I'm gonna make it a little shorter. This is my last sentence for context. At that time, I tabled a motion calling for ethnicity not to be part of risk profiles. That motion was welcomed by the cabinet in a negative way and, as a result, I shall say, it was not adopted either. In that context, I have to read this. So I am very concerned about that and I cannot understand why something that was always undesirable and unspeakable for D66 has now turned out to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u224	It's, like I said, a sanction. It's a lock piece. It's an ultimate measure. It is nothing more than criminalisation, because that is a generic measure. An undesirable statement is aimed at one person. That is different from a generic measure. The second is that I would like to ask Mrs Simons to think with us when we say that we are acting against ethnic profiling and that we do not allow it. Help us from your practice, from your experiences, unfortunately, and with experiences of others you know and trust. Help us see where things can go wrong if you want to perform properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u225	Finally, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u226	That is a very sympathetic gesture from Mrs Kaag. Of course I'm gonna do that. I understand that this is part of the call for constructive cooperation with the parties. That's what we're gonna do. What I can already tell you at the moment is that, in the case of ethnic profiling and institutional racism, we must, of course, first stop accepting ethnicity as part of the risk profile. That is the most concrete thing I can say about this at the moment, I think. I have many more questions, Mr President, but I understand that time is limited and that I cannot make any long-term interruptions here. However, I would like to extend Mrs Kaag's request by saying that I would also like to take part in the debate on equality of opportunity in general and especially in education. I would also like to discuss applying blindly, because I also saw that point in the agreement. I am absolutely not in favour of that, but I think we are going to have that discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u227	Very nice. The more the merrier, as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u228	I would also like to congratulate Mrs Kaag. It's handsome when there's a coalition agreement, no matter what we think about it and how we look at it in terms of content. Appreciate you finally getting out of it. I have another question about the point on page 42 of the agreement, which concerns the junk statements. The first time I almost even read about it, but if you read it correctly and put it in addition to the proposals from 2013, then I really read that the criminalisation of illegality is back. With a lot of ifs and buts, but that punishment is back. I actually want to ask what has changed compared to 2013. At that time it was Alexander Pechtold who here in the Lower House argued the opposition against this measure. He said at the D66 Congress: I have fundamental objections to this and it is a fundamental violation of the rule of law. If I read what is written here and what has been said about it before, it is cleverly written down. I almost read about it and I think a lot of people say it is true: illegality is punishable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u229	No, we differ on that. I always appreciate GroenLinks' commitment to asylum and humane reception. I also know that, in the first talks with the informant, Mr Klaver preferred a European approach. We have, of course, also looked at the cabinet commitment at European level with regard to common asylum policy. As far as we are concerned, however, this is not a criminal offence of illegality. It's a final, final step in a very careful process. It is the closing point and it is different from a generic measure with regard to what is criminalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u230	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u231	It may be the final piece of something, but the final piece is that illegality is punishable. I've always been taught that if something looks like a duck, it quacks like a duck, and it runs like a duck, it's also a duck. It may be the final piece and not the very first thing we're going to do, but ultimately, this coalition agreement will punish illegality in the Netherlands. And I regret that, precisely where I have the greatest appreciation for the value Mrs Kaag attaches to moral leadership, ensuring that we do not dehumanize people. And the latter happens way too much in this room and out here. I believe that criminalising people because they can't get out of here is a contribution to this. I don't think that's right for how I know Mrs Kaag. I hope that we can work together to ensure that this point of the coalition agreement does not go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u232	This is an agreement from a carefully conducted process between four parties. Unfortunately, I do not hear anyone talking about the important element of labour migration in the migration chapter. Unfortunately, I do not hear anything about the improvement of reception and the investment we are making in the Netherlands and about working together at European level. Furthermore, I refer to the UNHCR quota, which has not been achieved in the last 20 years. Again, it is a means that can be used in a closing piece. It's not about people who can't go back. It is about people, especially those who are harassing them, who, should they be staying in a shelter or otherwise, suffer enormous burdens for those living around them. People who went into crime. People who can go back but still actively oppose organized departure. So we're talking about a very special group. It's a person-oriented measure. It is different, also legally according to my understanding, but I am not a lawyer rather than a criminal offence of illegality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u233	I would like to continue briefly on this criminality of illegality. I hear a lot of fine words from Mrs Kaag about what else is being done, but the conclusion on this point is that the criminalisation of illegality will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u234	No. I think I have just said it, and I appreciate the repetition of the question by Mr Dassen. But the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u235	Thank you. I just wanted to get this straight. But I would also like to congratulate Mrs Kaag, because after 274 days there is an agreement. There are indeed positive things in this agreement. One of the things that struck me mostly is, I think, digitalization for the first time. I am sorry that this does not go through the whole of the agreement as in the German agreement, but is a separate paragraph. But it's a nice first step. I also see that many of the things in it are already European agreements. There was one thing that shocked me, namely the investments that are being made in the Personal Data Authority. For this, 8 million is now being released, while the Personal Data Authority clearly states that it needs at least 100 million to ensure that it can carry out its tasks. I was curious to see how Mrs Kaag looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u236	I have the details about the Dutch Data Protection Authority's wish not to be active in the glasses, but just a step higher: digitisation is one of the priorities of these coalition parties. Of course, you have to do that across all domains, from cybersecurity to, indeed, a serviceable digital government. A lot of good details have been mentioned. It's still a matter of impact. I do see this as a point which will come back in the elaboration with the govern ment, or with the government statement of the cabinet and at other times, such as the outline letter which a govern ment representative is undoubtedly going to send on this issue, also on the budgetary requirements necessary to implement it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u237	I can tell there's room here. That is also necessary, because 250 million will also be made available to others in the NCTV. The Personal Data Authority supervises this. If we are going to invest a lot more money in this NCTV and if we are going towards some sort of surveillance state, that might be his harsh words, it is in any case important that the rule of law is also guaranteed. That is also what the Dutch Data Protection Authority does. So I assume that this can then be taken to January to ensure that more money is made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u238	From D66 I certainly make a commitment that it can still be looked at carefully and that it is important. I just think it is a good thing that Mr Dassen perhaps softened his "surveillance state" qualification, because I can assure you that I have lived in traditional surveillance states, which cannot be compared to the Netherlands at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u239	Agreed. As I said just now, that was too strong a qualification. I have another question for Mrs Kaag. You want to be a frontrunner in the field of climate. Are the measures now being taken sufficient to become a frontrunner?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u240	That's a very good question. The range of measures includes standardisation, pricing and tax incentives, but also the tailor-made work that will have to be done with the sectors and, for example, with the ten largest companies, and on the other hand the support that citizens should receive in isolating their own homes and the demands we will make on the landlord's corporations. It's about and, and... If you look at that whole package of measures, I will mention just a few, these are of course well-known measures.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mark Rutte just reported overshooting. In fact, we hope to assume that we are actually doing not just the 55%, but in calculation 60%. You can always have setbacks; it can go slower. The execution test is also very important here. But I think we're going to play a very good role here. We are doing this for the Netherlands, we are doing it for a green industrial policy, we are doing it for the future of our own country and for a better climate. So yes, but the text also states that there will be a ruler for Climate and Energy. That person, she or he, will, of course, have to get to work immediately to talk and see what else is needed, what obstacles are encountered. Because in the end, the so-called field of 'beautiful' word, I know that the suggestions have yet to be made. Companies will know what can and cannot be done. So we have good hope, but in the end we focus on the results and they are measurable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u241	"Good hope," of course, that's very beautiful, and 55% is a good start. It is actually the European minimum that we have to work towards each other. Countries like Germany are at 65% and Denmark is at 70%. So we're not taking the lead with each other yet. I also wonder if some things could not have been more concrete. Take short-haul flights, for example. They are discouraged, but in France, for example, they are simply abolished. Schiphol must have 20% of flight reduction. So I wonder if Mrs Kaag is prepared to include these specific objectives in the government statement in the future to make sure that we are really going to be a frontrunner in the future. The abolition of short-haul flights could then be a direction, if we could set a good high-speed network against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u242	Two things. I said "I have good hope," but you forgot the second part: "it's about the results." We're at 60%. If you look at other countries, you can see that we are really on a very nice course. The catch-up path we've had to go through is a whole different one. The second is the path to be climate neutral according to Paris in 2050. We have 70% in 2035 and then 80%. The point is that you are going to make it and preferably as soon as possible, as far as we are concerned and I also think about more and more people in the Netherlands. You're asking for concreteness. This is precisely one of those points for a letter on the main lines of the incoming ruler. That's the time. If there is indeed a cabinet on the border at a time in January, then that person will have to get to work very quickly to indicate that specificity. The intention was for a coalition agreement to be established on the main lines. As Mark Rutte said publicly yesterday: it is not as thin as we had hoped, but not as thick as we had feared. For each sector, I can think of concrete things that we want to see in it, but that is precisely the implementation that the govern ment has to work on with the forthcoming cabinet. So we'll take it all with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u243	Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals. Then you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u244	I can see Mr Wilders yawning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u245	I would like to build on Mr Dassen's point. I will also say in my own contribution that it is not enough for the climate. I have two specific questions for Mrs Kaag. I read in the agreement that an independent Scientific Advisory Board will be set up to assess and advise policy. My question is this: is climate science leading? My second question concerns the extraction of gas. I read in the agreement the following: "We are completing the procedure around Ternaard. We don't issue any new permits for gas extraction under the Wadden Sea." What does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u246	The answer to your first question is yes. Climate science is leading. The second question is what does it mean to conclude the procedure? There's another procedure. It may well be that LNV can't issue that permit at all. Of course, there has also been a well-founded protest against it. In any case, no new permits will be issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u247	I am asking for this, because I hope, of course, that this permit will not be issued. But what is now stated in the coalition agreement about the absence of new permits for gas extraction under the Wadden Sea has long and wide been in the law. In Rutte III, Minister Blok says: the Chamber has ruled in the law that there can be no drilling in the Wadden Sea, but we are not going to do that either, because we are going to drill across the Wadden Sea. In other words, the Rutte III cabinet uses word games to find the room to just do what it wants. What is now in the coalition agreement is already in the law. So I would think that it would be a sign of a new governance culture and of a real change that would then be in the coalition agreement: that permit simply does not come, because we have already arranged this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u248	We could have written it that way, but it says: "there will be no new permits."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u249	I would also like to interrupt Mr Hoekstra so immediately. Yeah, that's what he was hoping for. So I'm gonna leave it here, with pain in the heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u250	You will continue your speech, Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u251	We have also discussed in detail how the Netherlands will become a tolerant and open country again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u252	Gentlemen, Mrs Kaag has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u253	I always like the gentlemen talking through it when the women talk. But we are going to take tough action against racism and discrimination, against hate for women and anti-Semitism, against the opportunities of every human being and against threats in society and politics. I have seen very well and understood what people think: first see, then believe. It's been said before by Mark Rutte, and it is. In recent times, we have already talked about it. Politically, we have all disappointed the people. I also understand the impatience of many in this Chamber. It all took way too long. But now that the agreement is in place, I really want to reach out to you. As D66 party leader, I cannot exchange all your wishes and preferences or agree to them. I also failed with our entire election program. But we really want to have the debate. We want to take the best with us, without dogma, without bias and with respect and decency for everyone. Collaboration and bridging the differences: we really need to do this together. Hopefully we'll all set a good example. We want to get to work, and my group agrees with the VVD's proposal to appoint Mr Rutte as a formatter, so that a new cabinet, Deo volente, can quickly get to work for the Netherlands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u254	Thank you, Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u255	Then I suggest we suspend for lunch.
