ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'm glad to see you in a good mood, at work, all living in good health. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Turn on the "Race" system if it works. [[10:02:21]] Registered -339 There are 339 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, the factions, please. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure on Friday, we discuss the order of the day session according to the schedule of meetings. You have a list of issues that are proposed for consideration. Dear colleagues, yesterday. One minute! Yesterday we actually agreed on these issues during a meeting of faction leaders, we held a so - called meeting of a small conciliatory council. I would suggest that we work today until our meeting schedule is exhausted. Out of procedure, please, Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we all watched TV yesterday and saw all the information about yesterday being distorted. So I propose that three minutes be given to the factions and leaders of factions and blocks, and let them explain to everyone their position and what was happening in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u3	Yes. Dear national MPs, we may have. National MP of Winsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u4	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there was an agreement yesterday. We are prepared to work under these arrangements, including the opposition as far as I know. But you have to make it public today as the Head of the Supreme Council the essence of these arrangements so that all the people in Ukraine know what happened yesterday and what happened yesterday, the Conciliation Council found compromise, because Ukraine today just doesn't understand what's going on in the Supreme Council. And the next. We have not had a previous event, nor will we be given the opportunity to speak on Friday under the Rules. We've moved these speeches to today, but there must be a guarantee that today at 13 a.m., we'll have the opportunity to speak out in order to express the positions of those we haven't been able to make in the past week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u5	National Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u6	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am pleased that today you are calm and today the entire Presidium is still and today the entire Supreme Council is at rest, and our entire Ukrainian people will remain calm until the stable Ukrainian currency and the untouchable National Bank of Ukraine from the thieves who wanted to take three and a half billion dollars away yesterday. I'd like you to report back to me right now, as yesterday, the damage caused by the millions of computers being broken here. Yesterday, I was the last of the deputies to leave when the hall was closed. And I'm saying nothing was broken yesterday. Instead, all the media reported that there was an ice-truck plague, after which the Kulikov battle was a child's entertainment. So I'd like you to tell everyone that it's all working out, okay? Tell everyone on the air, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u7	Thank you. It works calmly, thanks to the heroic efforts of the workers of the appropriate departments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National MP Zvaric. Dear colleagues, let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I do not object to our meeting today according to the project, I emphasize the draft agenda that we have been given. Why do I ask this question? About the draft agenda. Because there is a vote on these bills, which are presented to us in the draft agenda. In order for us to carry out this agenda in the way that we are given, I want to remind you of the Rules. We need to vote in this case at-hok on the decision to amend the Rules. I want to make the right emphasis on a particular point. In order for us to make this decision, the draft decision itself needs to have a clear exclusive list of those projects that will be put to the vote, so that no other project that is not defined in the exclusive list can be implemented. But in order for us to do all of this, it has to be filed and distributed in the session room in writing, a draft decision on the at-hok amendment to the Rules. We don't have such a draft decision, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. And that's why this agenda project can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u9	Thank you. Vladimir Strtotovich and we will finish. Vladimir Stretovic, "Our Ukraine". It's our Ukraine block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u10	Vladimir Stretović, faction of Our Ukraine, Party of the Christian People's Union. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I took the floor from the procedure on Tuesday to include in today's session the conclusion of the committee's report on the state of compliance with legislation to monitor the fight against organized crime and corruption. He's not in the living room. At the same time, no matter what, there is a draft regulation that has been handed down by the pocket-trafficking masters in the draft decision of the decision committee which cannot be made because the issue of the Attorney-General's report has not been completed, and their names have been marked. And yet in some ways, we depend on this question, which is very important today for Ukraine as a whole. And we can't finish hearing him. Please take this situation into account, because the session is ending, and we're going to move on to the third session in this way, and we're only going to need 20 minutes to complete its consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, dear fellow Stretovich. This information is there. Perhaps your schedule is somewhat out of date. Here is the information provided by the Attorney General on the state of prosecutorial supervision in the area of the fight against organized crime. There's a document. Dear colleagues, with regard to the proposal of the National MP Zvarič for a vote. Yes, we agreed yesterday that we would include today, clearly determining what questions we are proposing to include in the meeting schedule, and discussing them. As far as voting is concerned, we will then, in each particular case, be determined with regard to a particular bill. If you agree to this session hall. Everything else is behind the braces. Regarding the offer made yesterday by the National Deputy of Winsky. We had a long conversation yesterday, and there were several conversations. We agreed, in principle, on this. The first thing that we are looking at today and deciding on decisions is not taking decisions, but we are deciding on decisions on economic bills. First of all, on Monday at the Conciliation Council, we decide on the procedure for examining the submission of the President with regard to the head of the National Bank, and on Tuesday, we're putting this issue on the schedule of meetings and we're looking at it. Next step. We're mostly working on those bills that are needed for the budget. On Thursday, we continue to work on the budget. At the same time, we are conducting meetings, consultations in the same long-term regime with faction leaders, to identify those bills that today would unite the interests of political groups and factions, so that they can be introduced and considered in the session hall, defining their orderliness and consideration of these bills. It's mostly these deals that we reached yesterday. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u12	Dear colleagues. Simonenko, the Communist faction. Yes, indeed, and these questions, which Vladimir Mikhailovich is now informing us, have been discussed. But as we conclude our meeting, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I have personally made this, in order to agree with your proposal, we must first sit down, continue our conversation yesterday, to all the factions' leaders, and each faction's leader raises those problematic issues to discuss together, we take a risk on a list of issues, we agree on every issue on a harmonized position, and after this procedure, when we agree on all issues of concern, we agree with what you said. So I ask again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, because this approach can be implemented on schedule only after we agree on a package of issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u13	Valentina Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u14	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I support the previous speaker, Peter Mikolaiovich, that the agreement should be implemented. I'd like to speak on the State Property Fund report. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, at the suggestion of the Special Supervisory Commission, you sent a letter to appear after the main report by the tax administration and the Ministry of Justice, who were conducting the privatisation or more faithful alienation of property by other privatisation processes. So I'm going to ask you to. Because this rule is presupposed, we proposed, we signed documents. And some of the co-reporters are not in the agenda today. I'm going to ask that this standard be respected and our agreement was executed to make it, in fact, an invitation they got. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u15	I asked Hennady Andriyovich to study the subject. Turkinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u16	Yulia Timoshenko, Alexander Turchinov Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you just called those proposals that you made to the faction leaders for the discussion. This does not mean that the factions have agreed with you. As for our faction, we claimed yesterday and today we can repeat it. For us, the principle is financial stability in the state. And we're not trading the National Bank into a deal for the presidential clans. This is our principle position. With regard to today's vote. In line with the Supreme Council’s regulations today, there can only be a discussion of laws. We have a Thursday, a day to vote. And I ask today not to abuse the Rules and work in accordance with the standards adopted by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We have until you get to know the schedule of meetings here, we have a large number of parliamentary requests. Shall we vote on them today or not? Shall we vote? So let's vote. Requests were received from the Ukrainian National Deputies, Vladimir Onischuk, to the President of Ukraine for the socio-economic development of the Beresov district of Odessa. I would like to vote in favour of this request. [[10:15:08]] For-166 For 166. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the President of Ukraine. This requires at least 226 votes. Please make up your mind. [[10:15:29]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Paul Žebrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of restoration works on objects of the architectural heritage of Žitomirščina. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:56]] For 178. Decision taken. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legislative order for the resolution of social protection issues of victims as a result of tests of nuclear weapons at the Semipalatinsk site. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:23]] For 216 Decision taken. Paul Žebrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction of a school in the village of Jaropovich of the Andrushov district of Žitomir district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:50]] For 214 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko and Michael Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the extraordinary state of heat and gas supply in Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Lviv, Sumski and Herson areas. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:19]] For 208 Decision taken. Andrija Polita to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations by Kira's head of the provincial district government administration of the constitutional rights of citizens of the requirements of effective legislation and illegal interference in the operations of the central district hospital. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:48]] For-189 Decision taken. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return of savings for severely ill citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:12]] For 205 "For" is 205, the decision is made. Sergija Slabenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of environmental security in the village of Pavlovka in the region of Volin Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:38]] For 111 "For" is 111, the decision is made. Jury Karmazin, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, for exceeding the official authority of Ukraine's former Finance Minister, Igor Yushk, when ordering temporary restrictions on the allocation of the General Fund of the State Budget for 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:07]] For-149 "For" is 149, the decision is made. Ivan Tomić, to Prime Minister of Ukraine, on budgetary debt from forest protection work to the Kosovo company Ryagrolis, Ivano-Franki district. [[10:19:34]] For 155 "For" is 155, the decision is made. Julius Timoshenko, Mikhail Pavlovski, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation that has arisen in connection with the mass power outage. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:00]] For 176 "For" - 176, decision taken Peter Simonnka, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to overcome the extraordinary situation at the stopped Chernobyl AES. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:24]] For a hundred and 194, the decision is made. Mikhail Radionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the National Space Agency for the construction of a healing and rehabilitation centre for the space sector in Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:51]] For-182 For -182, the decision is made. Anatolia Orzhachovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation in the Kalanchi district of the Hersonian region with the provision of benefits and subsidies to the population. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:16]] For-191 For 191, the decision is made. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the Ukrainian law on the payment of food costs to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:44]] For a hundred and For 192, the decision is made. Sergey Slabenka to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on financial debt from social payments and gasification of rural areas in the Volin region. I'll bet you a vote on that request. [[10:22:11]] For-119 For 119, the decision is taken. Jury Boyka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vitaly Hayduk, head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the critical state of gas supply in the city of Brovary Kyiv district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:39]] For 112 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in response to an unsatisfying reply to a parliamentary appeal regarding the robbery of the Niwa Police Department and the arson of the New Ukraine Paradise Company of Ukraine in the Kirovograd region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:09]] For 155 Decision taken. Vladimir Ryabika to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the failure to execute a court decision by the local court of the Kyiv district of Poltava concerning the closed-circuit association "Juniost". [[Cherkasi City]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:38]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Istwana Hajduša to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the purpose of shutting down a school with Hungarian language in the town of Hust Zakartá district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:05]] For 132 Decision taken. Zarai Katusheva to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on speeding up the examination of the civil appeal by the judge of the Chamber of Civil Affairs of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, who has been in court since June of this year. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:38]] For 116 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Boki, Semenyuk, Red and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation of the law, the persecution by the Kyiv authorities of the head of the Squire Corporation of Ivan Suslov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:10]] For-182 Decision taken. Victor Pinzenik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the property rights of employees of the Lebanese Telegraph Company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:35]] For-147 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies - Lapin, Carenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Audit and Audit Office on the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds by the tendering committee of the City Council of Sumi and the illegal use of budgetary resources in the reconstruction of the Red Square in Sumi. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:16]] For-157. Decision taken. Vladimir Infantry to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the head of the Agro-industry corporation Squire, Kyiv region, John Suslov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:46]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the High Council of Justice on the illegal headship of the Supreme Council of Justice of the National Deputy of Ukraine Sergio Kiwalova. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:13]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. We're going to have to vote now on the schedule of meetings. I'm announcing that the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 10 December 2002 created a parliamentary association "For the Union of Ukraine, Belarus, Russia" - the ZUBR, which included 82 Ukrainian national deputies from various factions. A committee of seven national deputies has been formed to lead the MPs. Dear National Deputies! If you have such a great interest, I will ask the initiators to distribute the corresponding lists. Dear colleagues, I ask you, according to our agreement, to vote in favour of including the bill in the agenda today and today to consider the bill by number, please listen carefully: 2485, 2485-d, 2326, 2486, 2486-d, 2487, 2484, 1276-1. Please, Your Honor, vote for this. Let's vote now, let's vote. Please vote. [[10:28:55]] For a hundred and For the faction, please. Roman Zvaric's procedure. Once again, dear fellows! Light up on the board on the factions. We agreed on what we were voting on. National MP Zvaric, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I insist on my position as expressed earlier. In order for us to carry out the order of the day that you have given us for consideration, we need to accept it. I would ask you very much to listen to me, Vladimir Mikhailovich, so you will not be distracted! In order for us to adopt this order of days in the way you propose, we need to make an ad hoc decision to make changes to the Rules. Such a decision can only be taken if there is an appropriate decision given to the Ukrainian national deputies in writing. Such a decree, such a draft decree, is not given to us. Thus, such a decision that you now propose to make does not meet the strict requirements of the Rules. And that's why our faction didn't support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u19	National MP Martinyuk of procedure, Adam Ivanovich, faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Well, basically, and by almost 100 percent, I always agree with the proposals of the National MP, Zvaric, regarding regulatory standards. In this case, however, this is not exactly what the national MP says. That is, the presiding officer has the right to put to the vote the question of the session room in the order in which it has now been put, and there is no violation of the Rules. The more I emphasize, Roman Mikhailovich I also emphasize to other colleagues that the presiding officer has fulfilled your requirement to clearly indicate which are included in the agenda of today's issue. And with the exception of those he listed, it is clear that no other issues that are not in the order of the day previously approved will be considered today. I mean, the suspicion of those who think that, if we include these questions and they're even more involved, in this case, well, there's no reason. I think Roman Mikhailovich, the chairman in this case is following the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Nestor Schufrich, please. The faction of the Social Democratic Party is united.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u22	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues. I ask you to include these bills in the agenda. I realize that they are problematic, and many more questions need to be clarified. But in order for us to do so, we need to start looking at them in principle. This is our responsibility. And I ask, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, once again to put this question to the vote, to put it into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u23	Turkinov, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to look very carefully at the presidency. I ask you to look carefully at the hall, no one prevents most people from voting. And now, when we vote, we find out again what this so-called majority is worth. It's an empty bubble that can't do anything except.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u25	Turn off the microphone. I'm once again your esteemed colleagues, let's not disturb the session hall, let's work. National Deputy Assadchev, please. If they continue to do so, I will turn off the microphone, regardless of what the national MP's right is. And my right as chairman to get a job, I'll do it. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you must understand that after what happened yesterday, whatever excitement there is, but if Parliament has not worked all day, on which the day of the vote, it is always the responsibility of the Head of the Supreme Council and the leadership. It's your destiny. But you have to understand something else. Now, there's just a kind of mistrust syndrome, mistrust, mistrust between the opposition and the majority. And I think you need to figure out a way to get this bridge over with. We worked well until yesterday. Now this syndrome exists and it feels like a vote. But I would suggest you, maybe take a break, talk to the faction leaders, we need to go back to the clear procedure and keep it clear. Because if there's this syndrome, we're just really not going to be able to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u27	Victor Pinzenik, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, "Our Ukraine," I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Let's get out of this situation with a very simple solution. Let us vote on these issues for consideration and all, for consideration. Let us consider these laws and vote next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to express my support for Victor Pinzenic's position. And I've suggested that we vote in favour of putting drafts in the agenda and for today's consideration, once again, just these 2485, 2485-D, 2326, 2486, 2486-D, 2487, 2484, 1276-1. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal, please support, we agreed on that. For consideration. [[10:35:18]] For 294 Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! I am bringing to your attention a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Act on Taxes on Taxpayers. Rapporteur, Deputy State Secretary, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine Regurecko Vasil Vasilovich. Please. What is the proposal to consider this bill? How long do you need? Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u30	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The government has submitted to the Supreme Council a package of bills that relate to the problems of filling the 2003 budget. We expect that when we adopt these bills, we will have the opportunity to have additional resources that can be calculated and accounted for and the revenue of the State budget, which the Supreme Council is due to consider next Thursday this week. A bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax, the first bill to be proposed for consideration on a day-by-day basis. The general characteristic of these changes proposed by the government is that existing legislation has a number of weights that allow a large number of taxpayers to enter into taxation or not pay taxes on added value. There are a number of schemes that are used in legislation that don't fully regulate a particular issue, and we're losing substantial costs to the State Budget. This creates other problems with the tax budget at added cost. These are problems of timely and full compensation to the exporting producer. Current standards result in income balance and tax compensation at added cost. The government proposes to focus our attention on just a few parts of the bill. The bill provides clarification and changes in 6 positions. We don't view this as a major reform of the value added tax law, we'll be able to do that when we're preparing a draft tax code. Here are the most urgent problems that need to be changed urgently, to be specified in order to close all possibilities of tax evasion to the added cost. The most painful issue is the question of the formation of transfer prices. This makes it possible to reduce the tax liability by changing the normal price, the normal price to the calculated value, and, on the other hand, by increasing the amount of tax credit or compensation, direct compensation from the budget. In this context, the government proposes to use the term "normal prices" laid down in the corporate income tax law, and which the Supreme Council has adopted past meetings, we propose that this be taken into account in the determination of tax liabilities and the right to tax credit at the added value tax. These are the most important changes proposed in this law. With regard to the use of fictitious firms and, so-called, money laundering. That's the problem with registering taxpayers. The bill proposes changes that enable the administration of this phenomenon and clearly track down those entities that are identified as single operations with the possibility of receiving compensation from the budget. This rule makes it possible to regulate this problem and we ask that the Supreme Council be taken into account. Regarding tax compensation on added value. It's also a problem, a major problem with so-called fictitious companies that form, are only registered for one-time operations. The proposed measures allow tax inspectors to control the movement of funds and to monitor the flow of funds through fictitious firms. This is a proposed term that will allow this function to be performed. Regarding the tax bill. This is a painful question that is constantly raised when discussing the problem. This bill of major changes to this point does not make this norm, but it does detail the right that entities should be able to obtain tax compensation for the added value of imports of imported goods. They're big businesses, they're big importers, and they're going to be able to cancel the import tax deadline and pay in the future. This will allow you to freely import imported imported goods for your own production. And in the end, the problem of debt for compensation is the expert compensation. I'll tell you that in the draft State Budget Act, it's proposed that 1 billion dollars be allocated for compensation, and this will be approved in the budget next year. Another amount is unreparable, the government is offering on voluntary grounds -- I'm paying attention -- on voluntary grounds to restructure this debt and during this period to repay the State's debts to business operators for export of compensation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, five minutes to ask. Please sign in, if there are, of course. On the board, please. Petrenko, National Deputy Petrenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u32	Thank you. Petrenko, the Communist faction. Vassili Vasiljevic, please say, but what about the fact that the fee is to expand the tax base, and the payment for land rations, not last year or this year, is not fully carried out in Sumo County, for example, with 20 per cent money, in kind 80 per cent? But in the past year and year, people did not get half the money. It's also, so to speak, that the budget is suffering and so on. What's to be done?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. Your question is not directly related to the project that we are considering, it is a tax on added value. With regard to rations and rations, this problem can be dealt with in other bills and there is no direct connection to the value added tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u35	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Your Honor, you know very well that Parliament did not support this draft law, which was introduced as 1277 and voted in favour of 30 or 40 people at the time. This is now a similar text of the law, although the Rules prohibit it. Do you not think that the implementation, if God forbids, will be passed, will result in increased pressure on taxpayers and will reduce the State's responsibility to those who have already paid the tax or pay the tax on the added value? And what do we do today to enterprises that are based on an unreparable tax on added value? Taxes on added value today are the main enemy and destroyer of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u36	I would like to draw the attention of the honourable people's deputies that this bill has to some extent included in this composition the standards that were previously passed by the Cabinet of Ministers. But it's just a partial change. And the second feature of this project is that legally-working, normally-working enterprises will not be affected by the standards of change. That's a very important detail of this bill. These standards are directed at the very part of the entities that work on schemes that use the right to form indicators using the right of transferability to form. Therefore, there will be no increase in the tax burden. And now it's about compensation. The government has proposed a mechanism for returning unrepentant sums to those enterprises that you said were lying down. 1 billion. The money will be returned to the budget next year at the expense of budgetary revenue, and the second part will be returned for a certain period of time when voluntary agreements are made to restructure this debt and to regularly repay it from the State Budget, starting from the following financial year.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u37	National MP Matvienkov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u38	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Vassili Vasilyevich, I have two questions for you. Question one: I didn't quite understand when you said that the opening bill would be applied in some particular technology and method. The law clearly and clearly states that the VAT entry bill is being abolished. That's the first question. Explain, please. And the second question is, so you didn't say anything about an increase in VAT refund period from one month to 12 months. Well, I understand the situation where there are day-to-day firms, when there's a VAT leak, when there's schematics, that's it. Perhaps it is right that the State should fight in such a way. But if it doesn't hit the normal business, because it will increase the cycle from one to twelve. You know what it is for working people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u39	First of all, your question about the promissory note. The bill submitted by the government to the Supreme Council does not have rules for the difference of the bill. There is a detail of the parameters of an enterprise entity that has the right to apply a bill of 5 million. The volume of annual sales we've made to 10th, and all the standards are left. Only the right of mandatory billing in banks has been excluded. We believe that if we have the parameters defined by law, we can guarantee that such an entity will not be a fictitious entity, then the Tax Inspectorate is to be searched for. Regarding VAT compensation, the bill makes no changes to export compensation. There is a period, a month, and legislation. This is about paying off VAT when there is a negative balance on domestic sales. This rule indicates that an enterprise that has a negative VAT balance will be able for 12 months not to pay taxes on added value, but to cover its negative values. It's a perfectly normal norm, and we take it out of the taxpayer and we give it the opportunity to make up for it if it can do so on its own domestic sales. This right will not apply to seasonal enterprises, to enterprises that create, introduce large amounts of investment, and to enterprises that have the nature of production and the gap between production and sales. In this law, it's all made sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u40	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u41	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. Well, first of all, dear reporter, I never heard the answer to the question, what makes the bill different from the one we rejected: 1277. And secondly, do you not believe that the expansion of the tax base results in the desired result? In this situation you have to ask the question at all, and you have to ask it about canceling the concept of VAT. We constantly try to modernize what is now useless, so soft, nothing. We need to talk about cancelling this tax, not modernizing it or trying to find a way out of the crisis. The only way out is to cancel. What do you think about that? And the first question about the difference between 1277 and this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u42	Thank you. I'll answer your second question. Tax on added value is the same tax on turnover that you're talking about. Sales tax, real estate tax, value added tax. But the mechanism for paying this tax today is the most perfect form, there is no commutation that is in the taxation of the turnover tax. There is no alternative to this tax today. If we cancel VAT, frankly, we can't find a better mechanism to replace this kind of tax. The problem that arises around this tax is the problem that the government has to solve, it's the VAT disposal. Now it's the difference between the first one and the second one. I've already said that this option is a shortcut, and he's focused only on the moments that we think are the most painful today to make up for this tax. The previous version was significantly expanded, and we didn't include the points that were causing the objection. We wanted to focus it only for the sake of the budget next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u43	Thank you, time's up. Please, from the Cibenko procedure. Time is up, 14 people are already there.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u44	Thank you. Vasil Vasilovich, please stay in the rostrum. I would like to raise another question that is very often asked especially by veterans in appeals to the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, which I lead. The point is that sometimes we put a tax on added value where there is no added value. Well, let's say we had two veterans on the phone. What added value did this conversation have? This is an example. And we have a lot of similar analogies. So are there any governmental approaches to solving this problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u45	It's already a question, it's not a procedure. Well, just for a little while, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u46	I'm short. Any product, any service, including phone service, as you said, is necessarily an added value. His salary, his profit at the rate that appears to be paid by the company, does not arise But the other one. The added cost is just a tax mechanism. It's called that, but it's a turnover tax. And he's calculating what's been paid before. If the entity does not add anything, the added value does not arise and there will be no tax liabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u47	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. From the committee, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Please. If you don't mind, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u48	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. I'm authorized on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Banking to make his decision to you. On December 10th, the Committee considered this bill, the main provisions of which are the introduction of a temporary registration of a taxpayer in the absence of convincing evidence of a business activity on a regular basis, the extension of the period of budgetary compensation for internal transactions up to 12 months and the expert compensation for newly created payers, the change in the time-limit for payment of the value added tax on imports of goods, the granting of the right to tax authorities to cancel the registration of payers without a decision on the grounds of efficiency and payers who do not report, the limitation of the tax exemption on the added cost of medical supplies and medical devices, leaving it only for those medical supplies and products that are vital, which will be determined by the Cabinet, which are sold by the medical institutions. In addition, the bill introduces a standard for voluntary restructuring of the budget debt for the added value tax, which is not compensated by the 26-month suspension of compensation on 1 January 2003. The committee notes that the most negative features of the bill are: an increase of up to 12 months of VAT budget compensation. Such a tax recovery term will have a negative impact on the overall economy, especially on businesses, whose current costs are significantly higher than current income from economic activity for some time. This is usually the case for enterprises that make productive investments at the expense of loans or contributions from shareholders, enterprises with a long-term production cycle, such as shipbuilding enterprises. complex machine building, village, enterprises that are at the beginning of the market entry. So let's say a factory is building what to do with it. The other one. The changes related to the mechanism for granting and paying the tax bill significantly worsen the conditions for taxpayers and did not correspond to the Sixth Directive of the European Union. And the previous speaker told the truth, but not all of it when he said that the principle of issuing and paying off the tax bill did not change. This law, instead of the precept that is in force today, provides that the bill should be extinguished with living money. I mean, it's plus 20 percent removal from the negotiable costs of enterprises. It should be noted that adding value to medical supplies and medical supplies will increase their cost. But given the fact that the main users of the benefits today are not drug users, but pharmacies that implement them rather than adding value to the cost of medical supplies have created an opportunity to form these high-priced pharmacies and to receive high-income revenues, the committee believes that this proposal should be considered separately. In this regard, if it is considered positively, it is necessary to consider amending the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices for State Price Regulation for the Most Vital Medical Devices. In view of the above, the Committee on Finance and Banking proposes to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the project. The findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority confirm our decision. And for the rest of you, I'd like to say that again. There were questions about the difference between the bill that we rejected, 36 votes in July, and this. So, really, the difference is that this bill is shorter. On what account? On account of the fact that all the progressive norms contained in the previous bill are not now contained here. There are absolutely hard fiscal measures that will not improve the administration of this tax, but increase the understatement of this tax and increase the debt of the budget for the unspent amounts of this tax. And finally. I would like to remind you, honourable national deputies, that today's prime minister of Ukraine, in his statement from this rostrum, has promised the National Deputies to take all measures to fully repay the value added tax next year. By the end of the year, the projected debt will be $2.4 billion. We've heard from the Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Finance once again that he confirms 1 billion dollars of compensation, that less than half will be paid, that more than half will be given and offered -- I'm finishing -- that is, voluntarily restructure. I'd like you to think about how this will be done in the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax inspector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u49	Please sign up for the question. Five minutes. Please point it on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u50	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU, town of Zaporozhye. Sergey Anatolyovich, I have a request to comment on or give you a view of the two positions. Well, first of all, it's a complex machine building. From the point of view of innovation. The perspective of this sector, which is just rising to its feet, is beginning to shift a sense of coming to the budget. Your attitude, that is, the committee’s attitude toward the proposed money in terms of the order in which the depreciation is counted. That's the first one. And the second. When it comes to determining the principal activity of the taxpayer. There is no doubt, for example, that all these innovations will lead to increased tax pressure and not innovation, but to the laundering of negotiable funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u51	Thank you. The first question is not about this bill, and we're going to be looking at a draft law on corporate income taxation, and I'm happy to hear it. In terms of defining the core activity, you're absolutely right. The tax office will receive an unconditional rule as to whether you are engaged in entrepreneurial activities or not. What is a regular basis? Who should determine that? Let's say again, a new factory is being built, it's not yet doing anything, it doesn't have tax operations. He is being built, and he needs to be given the right to compensation as normal payers, without linking it to what he sells or does not sell. Unfortunately, this bill does not provide for such a right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u52	National MP Petrenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u53	Petrenko, the Communist faction. Please give the floor to Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u54	National MP Rudzikowski, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u55	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Thank you for your word. I want to ask you. Please tell the reporter that you analyzed on the committee how much less the export of Ukrainian grain will decrease if you change the VAT compensation and make it 12 months later. How much will Ukraine’s exports decrease? And aren't we going to have a negative trade-payment balance after this law is passed? And one more thing. What you think is more detailed about the supply of normal prices. Doesn't that mean they're going to twist the hands of entrepreneurs for no reason, because there's different pricing strategies in the company, let's say there's a Gethman vodka that sells 80 bracelets and there's a vodka that sells 5 bracelets. Where will the normal price be, and do we not give a tool for the new head tax collector to fill his pockets with money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u56	Thank you. I would like to point out once again, and Vasil Vasilovich Regurecki has already said that 12 months are not export-related, 12 months is internal compensation, so in theory this bill has no effect on export dynamics. We all know what's in practice called phobia, yes. You know that taxpayers don't allow export refunds on goods placed on export, on phobia, on dafi, and so on. Even though they have made some clarifications there, no compensation is available. In the law that we're going to be reading for the second time, in our committee law, we're going to issue December 26, we're going to put these right hands to even close this problem, but we have to wait until December 26. By the way, frankly, I don't understand the logic of the government that passed this bill. The government is taking part in a working group that's been going on for two months now, around the second reading of the big VAT law, which actually solves all these issues. Why was this again hurled? I think it was just, I'm sorry about the non-parliamentary expression, the reason for the new prime minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u57	People's MP Yankovsky, faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u58	Jankowski, faction of the Ukraine region. Sergei Anatoliyovich, would you please tell me how you feel about taking off the benefits, canceling the benefits of selling medical supplies and medical supplies? You're responsible for the committee's cancellation of these benefits?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u59	There's a separate bill that will report after me, not to me, which will suggest you cancel the VAT benefits for the drugs. I can tell you my attitude. I did not vote in favour of this bill. There are standard standards for the sixth EU directive, which proposes VAT principles in Europe, where there is a fairly broad list of medicines and medicines and medical adaptations that cannot be taxed on VAT in relation to what is, well, moral. There's one rule that life doesn't depend on the state of the wallet, right? And so I suggested, on a protocol basis, on the committee, not to take a general reduction in these drug benefits, but to enter a standard list of the drugs that are to be released, life-saving, life-saving. The rest, let's assume vitamins for muscle growth or, you know, for the replacement of the article, we can tax, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u60	Thank you. Sergey Anatolyevich, time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u62	Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Jebravsky. By procedure? Please proceed. By Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko. The procedure, to be exact.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u63	Thank you. Sergei Anatoliyovich, we're here at the committee meeting and in the hall we're looking at how to fill the budget. And, of course, that's a fair question. It bothers everyone. But you, a smart person, know that we're not looking for money. Today, part of the budget accounts for only three percent of the vodka industry, from the alcohol industry, from the wine industry, knowing in advance that from this industry to the year 91, 38-42 percent of the budget went into the budget. Today, three percent. Think about it! Only the guilty industry contributed 4 billion. Carbovans, that was 6 billion. That's what I'm talking about. And if you take the liquor industry and the liquor, it's going to be about 12 billion. That's what I'm talking about. What do we do to each other and look for these copies of the physical person, the added value, the VAT, and so on? We also worry about ourselves, as they say, with a clear understanding of where to get the money. So I'd like to ask, Sergey Anatolyevich, let's not worry about ourselves or people, and say that we can increase the income part of the budget three times today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u64	Thank you. A very short comment, Alexander Mikolayovich. Well, first of all, we don't get tired of our heads, and they make our heads wet by the law. And secondly, you're absolutely right, in 98, I was the drafter of a bill that was very strict in regulating the flow of undertaxation, primarily liquor production. Do you know what their fate was? On the first question, accept them, and then such opposition arose! I'm still in the middle of a call. I'm asking you very much, you're a member of our committee, let's take this problem together, improve the administration of this sector and do what you propose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u66	Can I go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u67	Yeah. Get ready for Jebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National MPs, the implementation of this law, in my view, as Sergey Teryohin has already proved, will lead to a significant increase in the fiscal function of the added value tax and a sharp increase in the tax burden on taxpayers. On the other hand, it will reduce the State’s responsibility to pay off the added value tax. And let's face it, this responsibility of the state does not exist at all. The state is not answering today. To date, the deadlines for reimbursement from the VAT budget, as defined by the President’s decree of August 7, 1998, are three tax periods. We're offered 12 tax periods. The setting of such a term would not allow proper tax amounts to be recovered from the budget in time. Those businesses we care about so much. The value added tax due to the budget is in fact the property of taxpayers. And so it's about stealing their property. Next. In particular, I would like to point out that during the first quarter of 2003, a so-called voluntary restructuring of the long-term budget debt from the added value tax is envisaged, which is not compensated by the state on January 1, 2003, by the delay of 36 months of compensation. So you're offered three years, free to use your money. Therefore, since the practice of so - called voluntary state debt restructuring in front of the entities speaks of the forced nature of such operations, I predict that this can only lead to the destruction of our production. For newly created enterprises, it is envisaged to apply a special tax regime to the added value of such payers when selling goods, jobs, and services. Once again, this will lead to the destruction of such businesses. In the end, please take a look at the distinguished national MPs. In addition to this bill, which has been analyzed today, you have also been handed out the 2485-d bill, the authors Burak, Kaputsin, Tsushko and others. In addition, a decree of 2485-p has just been issued, which is called: "To reject the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax." If you take here another comment by Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenka, before the explanatory note to this ruling, you can vote for this ruling, 2485-p, today. All the other projects that are, are unacceptable, except that the committee is currently working on the adoption of this project, which was adopted as a law, it was called 1276-1, sorry, it was not 1, it was called: 1277-1. And now he's ready for his second reading. So I would ask you to accept only this decree, 2485/P, and the government to look for money where it was recommended by the national deputies, where they were hidden to finance the shadow economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u69	Notice, 50 seconds. National Deputy Zebrovsky, prepare Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. I'd like to draw your attention to paragraph 5.1.7., according to which the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to add aid for the sale of registered in Ukraine and established by legislation in the order of life-saving medical supplies. I would like, first of all, to know that the Cabinet of Ministers did not agree at all with the Ministry of Health. If he did, he would know that there are at least three lists of essential drugs in Ukraine today. And if it's imported, it's only 100 drugs that go into life. Everything else is not a life - sustaining drug. There's one of the lists, 740 drugs that are vital for life, and that's where, for example, corn starts, but those drugs that are really vital do not go in. I mean, somewhere today, by quickly adopting this standard, by offering to accept this standard, the Cabinet of Ministers is simply offering to fill the budget. If you take only medicines today, the substances that cost the medicine will be taxed at the added cost, and they will enter into the price structure. And then today, drugs will not be so cheap, including life - sustaining drugs. Today, health standards have not been developed by the Ministry of Health, which also makes it impossible to accept a list of essential drugs. I would like to point out that double counting of the drugs that are going on is taxed on the added cost and not taxed, actually putting the company in a sufficiently difficult position. With regard to the customs office that is to pass these products on to the Ministry of Health today, it is not ready. And so the legal colossion that will arise at the beginning of the year will make it impossible to repair VAT from essential medical supplies. I would like us to realize that any raise and introduction of VAT, including medicine, will lead to social explosions, social tensions in society. The next bill, as far as I know, is going to be filmed by MPs. If they don't shoot, I'll do the same. However, I asked very and very carefully for the protection of the unprotected population, and the handling of VAT from drugs puts a fairly vulnerable population on the brink of survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u71	National deputy of Matvienkov. Get ready to pull the trigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u72	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Finally, we have talked about the income part of the budget, and it is already a pleasure to share and subtract the budget a great deal has been learned, and the income part of the budget is very sharp and global to date. For the stable work of the economy, we understand well that there will be no spending, we are well aware of that. The VAT problem has been in this room for a long time, and we've talked about it many times, we've broken copies, there's been a lot of proposals, there's been a lot of opinions. Today, unfortunately, debt is gradually approaching 3 billion rubble, which I mean unreturnable. Of course, this problem is growing like a snow coma. And then, at that time, we really did talk about the need to change the legislative framework so that the problem could be addressed and resolved. It really needs to be resolved. What is proposed to date by the Government? In fact, based on the law that we're starting to analyze, we're going to remove the input bill. For when we met, distinguished representatives of the Government, we said, "Yes, questions no, let's clean up, we'll pay at the entrance with living money, but you give the guarantee of ongoing VAT payments so as not to launder negotiable funds." Restructuring. Yes, we agree. Let's talk about restructuring, let's write down this scheme, but let's give you a guarantee of the current refund on VAT in order not to wash away the basic funds. All of these issues we have sought a way to compromise and have met. In addition, today, without addressing these problems of the current return of payments, we reversely overwhelm the law with the following things. We take the concept of the normal price and here, to put it, we bring in the additional obstacles that arise today. But, my dears, we know very well that many businesses are forced by market conditions and work for themselves. And why do we have to bother businesses today with this kind of method, that's exactly the way it is with the usual price. This is the first moment. Second moment. Increase in the return period to 12 periods. You'll excuse me, but we're saying today that there's no way to take credit for a normal interest or fill in the working capital. The increase in this scheme does not guarantee that current payments will only be returned to the producer's corner. I don't understand one thing, I understand it all very well, we have a huge number of shadow schemes today; we do have one-day firms and we really need to fight them. I just don't understand why we have to write the law under such enterprises, under potential criminals. Why can't we write a normal law that creates normal conditions for industrial enterprises and closes the gap for this audience? So let's finally start moving forward in this direction, meet with the industry in the office of the Deputy Prime Minister in the economy. Let us continue this practice. Gather the industrialists, let's sit down and work out a normal pattern after all. Nobody wants to lie to anyone. Indeed, industry today is making the State prosperous, so that pensions can be properly paid, so that it can be a profitable part of the budget. Let's keep working. And in that case, the law, if you'll excuse me, is useless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u73	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! As we analyze the draft law, a number of totally unacceptable things are immediately thrown into our eyes. Well, first of all. If from 1 to 12 months the deadline for VAT compensation is increased, it will definitely lead to the destruction of those enterprises that are actually engaged in external economic activity, not the butterfly enterprises that are created just to fictitiously compensate VAT. If you refuse to compensate for VAT on bills, it will definitely lead to total chaos in this direction. Even if it is an enterprise that can make a restructuring tax agreement that says this change to the value added tax law, it will definitely lead to further abuse by the tax administration. And the logical question arises accordingly. Why is the VAT not reimbursed? Because there's no money? No, dear fellows! The VAT is not compensated because there are massive abuses on the part of the tax administration. Because it is likely that every region has created appropriate cooperatives, criminally cooperates with the data, and is thus reimbursed from the air. You and I, when we make up the budget, when we talk about the budget spending, we think about how we're going to finance health, education, the social sectors. And here, in fact, businesses put millions of dollars in their pockets, criminal enterprises! I'd like to give you an example of the Lviv region. You know this problem, this conflict that arose around the Lviv tax system led by Sergey Medvedchuk, the head of President Viktor Medvedchuk's administration. You know that an appropriate commission was created after the submission of 160 national MPs. Regrettably, despite the fact that there were as many as three national deputies on this committee, we were not allowed to work on this committee. And in fact, the commission that examined the facts of the abuse of Lviv tax never listened to our arguments. Imagine, colleagues, that there are several companies in the Lviv region that have spent more than half a billion dollars in just three months this year because of their accounts, that's 2 and a half billion dollars a year, that's more real than the budget of the entire area! We've come across these patterns where there's actually abuse of a variety of products that are transported illegally through customs to Ukraine, that's what's said to be domestic production and sold to Russia, to Belarus, and so again illegally, these structures are being reimbursed for VAT, so that might be the conclusion. First of all, we need to put the tax administration in order to pay off VAT, and we need to bring those structures to criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u75	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u76	I'm done. Those structures that abuse butterfly enterprises. This law cannot be upheld in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u77	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u78	Dear Ukrainian legislators! I remember, in 1989, when I was the National Deputy of the Soviet Union, it was the first time that Gorbachev’s law had come out of the initiative for added value. Such a law exists worldwide, practically, in all developed economies. It's very simple in school: the value added tax appears in this chain of production, for example, goods or services, where there's a leap in revenue. Then it makes sense to count some part of the tax on the added value. This stimulates economic development, enterprise development, and the national budget. What do you and I have in Ukraine over the years? What happened? What kind of tax do we have? From my point of view, well, I don't know, maybe it's not exactly accurate, but I think it's this kind of economic AIDS in the Ukrainian economy. If we're talking to you today about a shadow economy that has about 50 percent, according to experts, in the entire Ukrainian economy, which has already given birth to shadow politics, and you know it all very well, today we have to say that today the main battery, the main one that feeds the shadow economy, is a tax on added value, which literally doesn't help the development of our national economy. It happened that it's just a money-laundering tool, if you want, for legalizing shadow tools. Here my colleagues have gathered almost everyone on this. Because of this, my position as a politician, as a national deputy, is clear: the added-value tax law is not subject to cosmetic repairs today. Absolutely nothing depends on whether we're going to stretch for 12 months, or whether we're going to stretch for 18 months, because today is completely different. Today, a lot of foundations and foundations have been created, which are specifically stated -- everything is done through tax services. Throw away 40-50 percent for me, then you'll get VAT. Oleg Tuggnibok here was talking about the Lions, where it was so wide! There's an enterprise like Arthur that only exists on all of this. We, a group of 20 deputies, went to Azarov and declared: “Please get rid of this, this is where the state money is! And what do you think ended it? Absolutely nothing. Because of this, dear colleagues, I think we need to gather with the spirit, those patriotic, statesmen, regardless of political views, and we need to think about what needs to be adopted completely new. Another law on value added tax. And most importantly, you just have to clean up the structures that use these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Added Value Taxes has been completed. I ask, if there is a need, from the government one minute and a reporter. Anything from the government? None. Do you have it? One minute and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u80	Thank you, distinguished national MPs, for understanding the essence of this bill. You can see that the agenda is still behind this number "-d" -- the MP's bill. We've had a task to expand the State Budget resource base, so I'm going to make a decision to the committee. We offered to do two things. In order not to have any problems with the normal price described in this bill of government, we have proposed to place the normal price on the corporate tax law that we will be discussing later today. This is the first position. And second position. Sadly, today more than 80 percent of meat is imported. And it usually goes through free trade zones. We propose to support the agro-industry sector, plus to avoid taking off the ideology of animal subsidies that we have established in other laws, removing from the list of products that may be smuggled into Ukraine, the first twenty-fourth group is agricultural and agro-industry products and excise goods. We estimate that this could give a resource of one and a half billion dollars an extra dollar to the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u81	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Taxes on Taxpayers has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote. I'm announcing before the review a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax on the Cancellation of Aid for the Sale of Medical Devices and Medical Devices. Please, Valentin Ivanovich Landik, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u82	Dear fellow members of the national MPs, the distinguished Presidency! Indeed, the issue of the cancellation of medical aids and medical supplies is a matter of great urgency. But given the fact that 90, more than 90 percent of pharmacies today are privately owned. And, really, this could actually lead to higher prices for medical supplies. So I also want to say that this term, this time, is addressed to me by a very large number of businesses that have actually started working today, which have actually started to produce medical supplies in us, in Ukraine. And that's noticeable, and that's very perceptive, and that's very nice. And so if we really do that, this is the question that I'm raising, it can actually stop production. But I really understand the fact that we have to fill our budget. That's why I'm going to do it this way: on imports and.. they said, these products, the drugs, the reverse, to enter a bribe. And that billion dollars we can find beautifully, because today 40 percent of the drugs are produced in Ukraine and can't be sold here in Ukraine. And 60 percent will still be imported. So, honourable national MPs, I very much ask you, and, Your Honor, I very much ask you, given that we have not solved the issue of targeted assistance to the poor, we have not solved the question of how we are going to see how we are going to raise our own production, so I'm asking you to remove this question from your consideration, for your consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u83	Valentin Ivanovich, take it off or put it off?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u84	Take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u85	Is there no objection? Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, the question is out of the question, so what is there to talk about? The question has been removed. The question has been removed from consideration, dear colleagues. Taken off! A draft Law on Amendments is being announced for consideration. Well, we still have reports, dear fellows, we have to move on! A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the administration of an excise congregation is being announced for consideration. The reporter is the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry. You see the desire and desire to work! God damn it, I want to work. Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Ukraine Vasil Vasilovic Regurecki. Vasil Vasilovich, please. Prepare Vasil Petrovich Tsushka. Five minutes, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Your attention is given to the second draft of a package submitted by the government. This bill foresees some changes and additions to the Act on the Management of the Excise Congregation. Once again, I point out that all the bills that the government has put forward don't solve this problem -- tax reform, what happened when the first bill was discussed. This is only about the standards that will affect the budgeting of the following year. And the Excise Congregation is a very important source of income, and it's something that people's deputy Tkachenko was paying attention to in the first discussion, and he's missing, unfortunately, right now. The Excise Congregation has a small share in total income, but it's growing every year. The budget next year offers about 3.5 billion dollars in this tax. And every year, we succeed by accepting changes to the law. We cover channels of avoidance from the payment of excise duty, we close shadow traffic, and we have an increase in revenue to the budget. The bill takes the following step in order to administer the excise congregation. We suggest that we consider three standards that improve the management of this tax. The first rule applies to the aid for the production and sale of cars that are collected from imported and domestic kits. These are the companies that are hand-gathering these cars. And in recent years, it has been suggested that they be given, so to speak, support by not paying excise duties on the production of these cars. The standard used in the law is no more than a thousand cars per year. Clearly, when automobiles are developed, this standard should be changed. We don't encourage the creation of extra jobs, we don't encourage production, we encourage the generation of cars. And this practice is negative. Moreover, international financial institutions, international organisations are constantly paying attention to Ukraine, that we have discrimination in taxation of the same goods that are produced by Ukrainian citizens, in terms of these imported cars and cars that are collected in Ukraine. So it's suggested that this rule be repealed. The second position concerns alcohol, alcoholic beverages. Of course, the norm that exists allows liquor factories to have a certain term in payment to the excise assembly, after what they've produced from the alcohol they've been given. It gives you the right, when you get alcohol, not to pay excise duties, but to issue a bill that guarantees the payment of this excise duty when it is produced and implemented. 90 days is prescribed by law from the deadline for payment of excise duty to the congregation. The government has analyzed the technological capabilities of alcoholic liquor products and proposes to shorten the term of this bill from 90 days to 30 days. In the following year, of course, this will allow us to approximate the payment of excise collection from the liquoric products that are going to be produced. This rule does not charge taxpayers, does not change the size of the rates, but only approaches the payment deadline of the excise congregation. And the last norm that raises the most questions. The government proposed that the date of the introduction of the amount of taxes, so - called mixed gasoline, should be one year. It's a generic name, and it predicts that you can make high-octane gasoline stamps, motor gasoline, using oxygen supplements made from alcohol. We suggest that this rule be maintained. But since the rules of application of this rule have not been worked out, we predict that we may lose real revenue to the State budget. So we're proposing by the time the order is done, all the normative acts will be ordered, the registration and the right to produce these oxygen supplements by the program, by the thing approved by the government, the Ethanol program, it just provides for the production of two types of oxygen supplements for the production of high-octane organic gasoline, so we're proposing that we move this deadline to 1 January 2004 all of these norms proposed by the government in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u87	Questions, fellow believers. Please sign in if there is. On the board, please. Five minutes to ask. Gregory Kaletnik, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u88	Thank you. And if you don't know, you've just used that there's no legal basis for the production of gasoline. And don't you know in the drafting of this bill that all the regulatory bases have been prepared and all the actions in Ukraine have been taken by GOST, the technical conditions of the last three years? I can count it, I don't want to take up time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u89	Thank you. I'd like to inform the people's deputies that when we discuss this issue on the budget committee, we've really been discussing this situation, which consists of the production of these high-octane gasoline. I'll remind you again, the program approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in July 2000 predicts that alcohol factories have the potential to use their power to produce alcohol with high-octane oxygen supplementation and to produce alcohol for ethyltretyl-butyl ether. These are the components that will be used for the production of gasoline. Sadly, however, not one litre of gasoline has been produced in the last period of use. But this right has been exercised by certain companies that have obtained a license or a document that confirms their right to use the technology regulations that are approved by these standards. According to our information, it was about 12 firms. Like, uh, "Teaters" and the like. Vasil Petrovich will correct me by the number of these firms. But I repeat, none of these firms have used that right and the order that was approved by the law on excise duty rates on this gasoline. And the rules that were laid down in the Cabinet of Ministers' decree. So once again, we don't change all of these rules, we just want to sort out the right of liquor factories and the right of oil refineries to work in exactly the same mode as government decisions. We have experience -- I know -- we have experience of negative Russia, which also introduced this technology last year, but they lost control of the right to use, and they were forced to stop this rule, which predicted a reduced rate of excise duty on this kind of excise product.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u90	Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know, I'm not going to ask you any questions, because we've been doing these laws for almost three months, but I'm worried about something else. They were preparing a law on VAT, Landik came out, said two words - removed. Well, you and I understand very well that today there are doctors who need zero rates, and today there are lotions, and today there are perfumery items that also go with zero rates. So what was our assignment? Let's not put VAT on all drugs, let's not enter 80 percent of VAT, but at least 20 percent of VAT. Let's look at this list, let them show it, and let's take not one and a half billion, as we want, let's take 150 million into the budget, is that going to be too much? So that was, I think, the main task of Landik is to prepare this professionally. Got it. Well, let's keep it that way, and let's say it's like people have to buy drugs cheaply and use more powerful corporations on it. I think it's unprofessional things that happen. And the Ministry of Finance, you have to understand, you two committees work on professional budget and financial and banking activities, but most of them don't work on these committees, they don't know that professionally. I need some visual papers from the same VAT. Maybe we're not going to take your, let's say, normal price, big periods, but we're going to take other administration issues and it's going to be 50 million in the budget, but it's going to be extra. I think this conversation today is completely unprepared, completely unprofessional. And I would think that we have to take this procedure into account somehow, because tax laws and budgets are numbers, not words. And we're going out and we're doing, sorry, political words, we're never going to do anything like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u92	Yes, the question. Your line is quite fair, which is why I, Valeriy Mikhailovich, suggested not to take it off, but to put it down to work and see, but you see the mood that is in the session room. Please, Sergey Ratushnyak, Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u93	Dear speaker! I'd like to support Assadchev first, and the drugs that have 500 percent and a thousand of them should be taxed. As far as excise matters are concerned. You don't change the situation with your proposal, the 90-to-30 bill doesn't change anything, because the manufacturer is already in charge of the tax administration after 3 days of removal of his product. It's about making every liter of alcohol, that's what the Communist faction says, monopolistically, it's a government function, it's about taking out the excise. It is removed immediately after it has been released from production. Each liter of alcohol has to be taxed on it. With regard to using it for pseudo-parfumery and medical devices, they also have to pay for excise duty and immediately upon release, no bills, and no serviettes. You know, it was 90, you made 30 days, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u94	Questions, please. Ask questions. Turn it on, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u95	I suggest we take out the excise collection right away from the alcohol production of alcohol for everyone, or we can't avoid the sticky production of like perfumery, like a toss and so on, from which we have hundreds of millions of liters of left vodka today. That's what we're talking about. We don't collect excise.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u96	I want to answer that question two words. If I remember the people’s deputies of the past convocation, that is the mechanism we have put in place when we receive alcohol to pay for excise duties. But what happened? We blocked all the liquor plants. They were unable to pay large sums of excise duty at the same time, and we gave birth to large amounts of debt, and we stopped production. So the Supreme Council had just concluded that this excise payment mechanism was imperfect. And it was suggested that we use a promissory note, which is to take a little bit of time to pay for this excise. We are constantly looking for the most successful tax options in order to make this State monopoly on the use of alcohol work in practice. If the excise payment when you release alcohol is considered more appropriate, we can calculate and predict how these situations actually happen. Today the best option was to pay the excise on the implementation of the liquor choices made out of this alcohol, but under the control of the Tax Administration. She's taking these bills to control and waiting for the deadline for them to be repaid by a bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u97	Vasil Vasilovich, thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Yes, I invite you to the report of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Vasil Petrovich Tsushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the proposal of our committee is to reject the bill submitted by the Government. Why? About 90 or 30 days. You and I just adopted a law that the President signed a month ago that regulates and answers the same questions that my colleague Ratushnyak has just asked. We have accepted that the bill is issued for 90 days. In order for us to have no one-day firms, this bill is rolled by a bank. Yes, the manufacturer spends 3-5 percent there on the bill. However, if this firm disappears or does not pay the excise, then this firm will be paid the excise tax in the budget of the bank that gave it the bill. I mean, he doesn't lose his budget. As for the monopoly, believe me, we have a monopoly, we have corruption. We have all the alcohol in the country. We have a 100 percent monopoly. But the fact is that this power is not exercised by our State, and left alcohol only appears because of a sales clerk. In particular, these are issues for our law enforcement agencies. Further, with regard to the next introduction of the bill by the Government. They suggest that only the manufacturer should export. Dear colleagues, in fact, if we adopt this paragraph of the Government Bill, we close the export position on the same goods and alcohol, perfumery of the same tobacco. It turns out that only the manufacturer now, if they paid for the currency, if you're stuck in your warehouse, what you're selling, you're not paying for the excise. It is only proposed after export. It's unacceptable. Therefore, our committee rejected the bill on the basis of these two paragraphs and proposed a bill under the same number as the "d" tire, i.e. 2486-d, where the first paragraph is retained, that the concession for petrol is suspended for one year. Second, it is stated on vehicles that it is considered that what operations are to be carried out in Ukraine is not only wheel bending. And the third point is that group 024 are excise and agricultural goods should be taxed in free economic zones with excise duties. Well, I'd like to comment first on gasoline. Dear colleagues, we're back in the hall a month ago. The story is this: four years ago, the President's decree imposed on the Government to adopt the Ethanol programme for what? To run our liquor plants, because we have more power than we need, and to make technical ethanol produce and release clean gasoline. That's the President's order. Let's move on. Colleagues from the last call remember. The Government submits a bill on which the Supreme Council votes that the 6 Kabmin plants are licensed to produce clean petrol. And they're going to have 20 Euros of excise duty and 60 Euros of excise duty. We passed those laws. The Government should have issued only 6 licences by law. Whatever happens next. Once again, our queen -- corruption -- has issued about 50 licenses, including these oil bases, which are, well, in different markets, or, you know, where the oil bases are different. And they were given the right to hang gasoline with different substances and benefit. When this issue was raised on our committee a month and a half ago, only our executive branch, the monitoring body, began to verify. And it turns out that six enterprises are producing at a minimum. So when we're told that the base will be more than 400 million in the budget, it's true, but only from heavy gasoline will it be 9 million, it'll be adjusted, and the rest will be from excise administration, from improved administration, from oil oil. That's the truth. Therefore, I have personally opposed this paragraph and now do not support for one simple reason: that our distinguished Government may have recalled this a month ago. And I'll tell you in the end. On instructions from the faction, I'm authorized to say something. That we're looking for income in the budget. The Medical Law was rejected. But just so you know, the price is 2 billion 600. So medicine is the response to the government's parliamentary request that 2 billion 600 medical benefits. So the question is, this money isn't for grandma. Any medicinal product has a cost of more than 100 per cent. And I'm talking. [[Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll take another 15 seconds.]] I'm talking about what. The faction says everyone's afraid to say, please, we're going to go against this grandmother. No, we are opposed to the fact that the medical business receives $2 billion from the budget and prices are not being lowered. The question must therefore be addressed. Unfortunately, colleague Landik withdrew the issue, but this issue needs to be addressed. And I would also like to emphasize that we support all these bills, but today we also support the exigencies, and the government that you have chosen, must put order in order if you want that money to reach the people. This is the position of our Socialist faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u99	Questions. Dear colleagues, please sign up. Five minutes. Light up on the board. Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u100	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please tell me with the adoption of the bill that the committee is proposing, not the government, how much will the revenue portion of the budget increase. And will corruption and tax evasion really be halted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u101	So you meant group 024. In this regard, the Committee's position is that, if this law is adopted in a package with the VAT law reported by counterpart Terehin, they will give, as Terehin said, more than one billion or one and a half billion dollars into the budget. Are we going to walk away from corruption in this case? We will not walk away from corruption, but the economic part, that is, we force this problem into the Penal Code, if they violate the economic part of it, we close the gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u102	Sergey Teryohin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u103	Thank you. Vasil Petrovich, you didn't say that when you commented on your position on mixed gasoline, you unfortunately didn't say the rhetoric that was on our committee. And that's not a question, but, let's say, a clue. We've come out of that ideology that if uniform goods are set by different excise rates, it's always going to be lower, because really, you don't screw up corruption. That's the first one. And second. You know, these benefits are used, unfortunately, not for the production of clean gasoline, but rather for ethanol to simply produce vodka, alcohol into illicit traffic. That is why we decided to unify the rates of the excise congregation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u104	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyevich. I agree with you. I emphasized only the moment that any idea could be discredited if not six licences were issued, as was the case under the law, but fifty. And I completely agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u105	Zarubinsky National Deputy, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u106	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, NDP faction. Dear reporter! You have allowed yourself a very bold expression. I think it was said in the heat that any medicine has a cost-effectiveness of over 100 percent. I don't think that's entirely true. I agree with you that there are many disorders in the activities of pharmacies, but these violations have to be eliminated by the appropriate structures, which are very large: both tax and tax, and by the U.B.I., and by the K.R.A. and the new structure in Minfin. But believe me, if you put 65 dollars in the budget to the average Ukrainian for drugs, 51 dollars at the expense of this average Ukrainian, it would only make it more difficult for the average Ukrainian to put VAT on drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u107	Dear colleague Shevchuk! I completely agree with you. I said that the Socialist faction wanted to raise the issue, that we have a lot of hindrance in the trade today, and they're increasing the drug, including. Nobody's regulating anything. And we have granted VAT for the development of the domestic health industry so that the consumer does not suffer in the end. And because of what's uncontrolled, you've confirmed, you're in trade, you're in trade, you're in trade. You agree with that, and I agree. And I said there's a problem, it needs to be solved. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u108	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u109	Thank you. Vasil Petrovich, I would like my question and my reply to be listened to by the government's representative, Vasil Vasilovich. The point is, for the two bills of 2485, 2486, we're going to vote, not because we're in the majority, especially me, or in the minority. The point is that twenty bills today will harm industry. I have a question. I mean, I want to emphasize that. Most of them aren't factions of government, most of them aren't governments, they're the same national MPs who are self-sufficient. And that's why I have such a question to you about the last bill. Depending on the consequences of the proposed regulations of Law 2486, there will be industrial companies using alcohol. In particular, Zaporozhi cream polymer uses alcohol. He's going for competitiveness anyway. If we increase him from 90 to 30 days, he'll just lie there.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u110	Dear colleague Suhiy. I'll answer the political part first. I mean, you voted for the government, you put your colleagues there, you have to influence it. Do you agree with that? That's what I mean. And as for what you said, 30, 90 days, you know, corrupts the government because there's no economy. When you and I introduced promissory notes in 1998, we gave two months' leave. And now, let's say Suhi, the factory manager takes the bill, he takes 10 tons, let's say, of that alcohol for a month, shuts it down, and then the next one. There's no money in the budget. Little had been agreed upon by the government in the working group and said that they would not submit and then they would prove to be in the bill. Therefore, our committee has proposed rejecting this and adopting our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u111	Omelian Pussy. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u112	Please give it to Sr. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u113	National MP Sinchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u114	Vassili Petrovich! Please tell me, a month ago, the government introduced a draft of the azcona that we approved. Here's the mixed gasoline. After our decision a month ago, the Government had any objections to these excise duties on mixed petrol. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u115	I've already told you in my report. The most interesting thing, let's say, is that the Government's proposal in its bill was to adopt a bill where I was the author, but it offered 45 euros and 60 euros. That is, the Government itself was proposing. Today in a month, well, you and I took 30 and 60. 30 for benefits. Today, a month later, the Government changed its policy. This is when we say that we will have no investment, I stress it as a precedent, there will be no investment in the economy, there will be no Western investor or foreign investor coming to us, and there will be none of its own until we have predictability. A month ago the government proposed 45, today it says no, cancel 6o. Here's the whole point of thinking about how to attract experts, I don't know, to intimidate investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u116	Thank you. Time's up. Let's move on to this draft law. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare, Ivancho.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine, Party of Protectors of Homeland, Solidarity. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! You have heard that today, when reporting on this issue, the government has actually admitted that it is not proposing any serious changes to this legislation, unfortunately. Unfortunately, I'm saying that it's not a complex solution to the issues that these bills are now making. And what's more, from that discussion, the committee's point of view clearly shows that they're not on the protection of the state's interests, these proposals. Since the bill does not provide for the collection of excise duties only when the goods are exported by their direct manufacturers, the vast quantities of goods exported will be subject to taxation by the excise congregation, which will result in an unjustified increase in prices for these goods. Will this affect the competitiveness of these products? Of course it will. Only in what way? Ukrainians will be uncompetitive. Next. A reduction in the payment period of the excise congregation from 90 to 30 days what does it do? It will reduce the use of our tax bills or bank guarantees in the manufacture of alcoholic beverages using ethyl alcohol. Is that a better situation or not? It will not improve, for alcoholics will be forced to pay the excise collection for the unmanufactured and unmanufactured product. Cancelling the excise duty on Ukrainian car manufacturers will lead to what? The need to add excise duties to the cost of cars, which will lead to a significant increase in domestic car prices. Since domestic cars are only competitive today at a low price, let's speak frankly, a significant price increase at the expense of excise duty, will make these CRAZ vehicles, "Tauri" at all uncompetitive. Thus, the national car industry will once again be put on the brink of bankruptcy and will never rise. Since gasoline is also a problem, motor mixes are a problem. We do not encourage the introduction of biofuels, nor do we encourage the preservation and protection of the environment. And finally, using the presence of the Attorney General of Piscoon in this room, I would like to draw your attention, Stanislav Mikhajlovich, which comes out of this very excise law that in the Kirovgrad region there is such a company called Artemis, the Kirovograd Falcon Extract Plants. The State’s interests have already been damaged by more than 121 and a half million dollars and there is no investigation into these circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u118	Finish!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u119	I'm asking for it to take place by the Attorney General's Office. And I beg you today, this question is organized crime, completed on pyramids that go to Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u120	You've already taken half a minute in two minutes. Please, Ivancho, "Our Ukraine" faction, prepare for Kaletnik. Dear colleagues! I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, please, let's not take a break, we have to go to the reports after we've passed these bills. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u121	Ivan Ivancho, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, in the proposed draft Ukrainian law, I propose to delete the paragraph that amends article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single Customs Tariff. In this paragraph, the proposed supplement to article 18, which is essentially discriminatory in relation to automobile manufacturers of special economic zones compared with other car manufacturers located in another Ukrainian territory. Businesses are required to carry out such manufacturing and technological operations, and businesses located in other parts of Ukraine are not required. That's not clear. I would like to draw the attention of the MPs to the fact that the explanatory note to the bill indicates false and intentionally incomplete data. The Eurokar company, which operates in the economic zone of Carpathian, produces only 8 months of production, not 11. The value of ready-made VAT is 86 million. 430 thousand, or 16.5 million. That's what I'm talking about. This is not a tax-free car. The explanatory note does not deliberately state that this year the company has paid for all its budgets at 22.7 million. Tax dollars. On average, 13.5,000. Money is taxed on every car. According to Eurokar's request, it is planned to produce 7,000 in the following year. 100 cars. At the same time, expected payments to the budget will amount to 92 million. That's right. This year in January-month it was a clean field, today it's given 22.7 million, next year it's 92 million. With an increasing, respectively, summary. We don't want to support this initiative. The bill is designed to close the business at the first stage of its development with the hands of the deputies. In doing so, those lobbying the project are not interested in coming to the budget of Ukraine, which, on the contrary, stops from the business, but in the destruction of a competitor in the car market, which is very scary. I propose not to support this bill, because it has not been discussed in the Committee on Economic Policy, Governance, Property and Investment. I also add to this, and I agree with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate that even if a bill of the specified standard is to be adopted, there should be an already functioning order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u122	Thank you. Gregory Kaletnik, European Choice Group. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the opportunity to speak. Dear fellow MPs! In this bill, which we are considering, I support the possibility of receiving 200 million additional revenue from the budget, except for one position to stop the excise duty rate of 30 euros for mixed petrol, which is supposed to prevent oil-processing companies from falsifying reporting, and then save 438 million dollars. I don't think that's an argument, because I know very well how clearly our tax system works, and it's not going to go unnoticed, and their presence lies, in fact, in the field of corruption that we've talked about here before, and by licensing. But here are the other consequences of stopping this excise rate. By eliminating the excise duty on a new product that started to be produced in Ukraine, namely gasoline with ethanol, we simply eliminate production that just starts to get on our feet. And clearly, the extra production of crude gasoline, which has no other economic advantage in Ukraine, which is molasses, sugar waste, will be reduced. The production of ethanol-based mixed gasoline is the work, the development of our science, of our scientists who have technologically produced ethanol technology, which have resolved the state's issue of reducing energy imports, strengthening the energy security of our country by reducing dependence on oil production. The President's decree of 22 June 1999 on the organization of the production of motor-mixed petrol is also based on the law of Ukraine on alternative types of liquid and solid fuels, which prioritises the production of ethanol and the creation of the necessary conditions for the production and consumption of these fuels by stimulating the production of alternative species. Over the course of three years, these laws and decrees have been reconstructed by state factories, developed all necessary regulatory frameworks, technical conditions and scientific research, as well as agriculture, have been able to implement molasses, not export abroad, as is done by scrap metal at demping prices, and provide raw materials to a foreign producer, not protecting a native country, which we are only declaring to be slogans from the rostrums. The same was true of metal scraps. So I'd also like to give you a little bit of help, because the arguments about ethanol vodka are denutrated products, and it's just a happy case of our national deputy who was able to find some kind of tequila made out of ethanol. It can't be done, it's know-how. So the production of mixed gasoline in Brazil today reached one and a half billion delicacies, in the United States of America, 670, France, Spain, Germany, and with us, Poland, 200 million delicacies. We've barely come up with 1 million decaliters of this environmentally clean product.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u124	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u125	I'm done. Last sentence, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So I propose to review the proposed standard and to adopt it in such a way as to preserve both production and budget revenue. Accept it in the first reading and work until the next Thursday when we vote it as a law. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u126	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u127	Dear fellow national MPs, of course, I went out to this rostrum to say a few words about what was not necessary and I think I should not support this government bill for many reasons. And my colleagues have repeatedly confirmed this. I would like to stand on the side of Bill 2486, which speaks of cars, regulating the excise assembly in the car market. You see, in any case, all these regulatory fiscal laws have to be directed towards development so that car building is done, as they all have to contribute to the development of Ukrainian cars. I don't know which of these cars that are released in Ukraine are Ukrainian and are completely produced in Ukrainian. When we talk about a Ukrainian car, it's that car that's produced in Ukraine, whether it's made of knots, blocks, or if it's actually produced on a conveyor stream, it's basically the same Ukrainian car. The only thing that we often see is the so - called direct lobbying of individual businesses by those who have long been in the market to influence the car market by adopting similar laws. Those businesses that aren't yet on their feet, which are just starting to form their own manufacturing base, which now, by the way, is being used by the Supreme Council, including, I mean, Damage, says that the quality of these cars is high. Of course, it is now a matter of saying that the node assembly brings huge revenue to the budget is not worth it, but something has to start with. We can't keep lobbying one after another, we can't keep lobbying one enterprise, hoping that one day sooner or later, but it'll still work. And that's what the politics of every law is. Here my fellow national MP says that more numbers, less politics, should be heard from this rostrum, I say that this is Parliament being the legislative body, not the accounting office of the Cabinet of Ministers or any other body. We are looking at whether or not a law is relevant in terms of political purpose and economic interest, including a significant reflection on political activity. So from an economic and political point of view, we don't have to support the bill as a minimum in a non-supported part of the excise assembly, and I'm stressing this, the non-support of the national car manufacturer. And the law as a whole of government I propose to reject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the administration of excise duties has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the period of entry into force. Dear colleagues! I have an offer. We have two more bills to consider and then we have to go to the State Property Fund report. And we still need to hear information about the courier. I'd like to take a very brief look at these bills. Please, Reguretic Vasil Vasilovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u129	Dear National Deputies! This bill is very short. I'm going to make a very brief announcement about the government's offer. The Supreme Council was to adopt the Ukrainian Customs Code with the deadline of 1 January 2003. The Government was approached by the State Customs Committee, which reported that it was necessary to prepare a number of normative acts to implement the Customs Code, including amendments to certain legislative acts. Considering that, in an organisational and technical situation, these bills were not adopted by the government, and on January 1st, the committee proposed to postpone the introduction of the Customs Code from 1 January 2003 to 1 July 2003. This will allow you, without violating the general approach to the introduction of the Customs Code, to prepare all normative acts for full implementation. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Is there a question? Please sign up if you have any questions. Please turn on the board. Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u131	Dear reporter! Please tell me, why does the government continue to work with the Customs Code to put it into effect on January 1st? This is done consciously, is there any problem with operationalism? Still, it seems that it does not act immediately deliberately and in order to leave the benefits of penetration through holes in existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u132	I would like to say that there is absolutely no attempt on behalf of the government to delay the implementation of this law. There is no interest in any government to do so. So once again, this comes out of the technical problems involved in the introduction of this law. 43 normative acts have been prepared, they are ready to be considered, including changes to the current legislation to be adopted by the Supreme Council, and unfortunately, they have not been reconciled by the Cabinet of Ministers. This, I think, is the main reason why the government is addressing the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u133	I think the main reason is that there are 200 million budget receipts. Otherwise we wouldn't have seen him as a package before. budget bills. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u134	Vasil Vasilovich, for me, the questions I'm asking here today are very important and fundamental. I have to decide how I vote on Thursday. And my vote should be conscious. In the last summoning of the Customs Code, I refer to the MPs of the Third Call, the Customs Code has had a very difficult road to pass. You all remember. And in the profile committee, it was no accident that the Customs Code was called a multifaceted codex. In particular, this provision states that the customs administration of the customs congregations does not work, but it was voted on in the second reading, remember, more than once. And around that position were big debates and battalions. Please state your position in accordance with European legislation. In general, what are the benefits that are possible minus, if we support your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u135	Thank you. I confirm what Vladimir Mikhailovich said. Indeed, the Customs Code does not provide for customs. That's absolutely true when we're carrying the deadline. The law, the administration of customs congregations is being restored, it's small sums. You know, customs services for the processing of these customs documents. A certain amount. From the calculation given to us by the Customs Committee, it's definitely about 200 million. There are no negative consequences, except for customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u136	People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u137	Dear reporter! You're only hoping that this will give you a plus for execution, and the real reality is completely different. If someone were to get a good look at those "pocks," we'd call it, in quotes, the congregations that run customs and don't put money in your pocket, you'd have 2 billion as a minimum instead of 200 million. Because you won't be able to find any employees across the border who don't have a palace, at least two floors, at their poor wages. And you've probably witnessed tax return: you give us plus 50 million, or you give us 100 million dollars, but 50 of them give us to use. We added, it was, it is. Do you have confidence that changes will take place in the congregation of money? Will it stay that way in the absence of order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u138	Thank you. We were guided by the facts. The figures, the actual figures that the customs department gave us. In the first half of this year, they received 217 million customs congregations, and we were guided by this figure. Regarding the second part of your question, I believe it is a subject of the attention of other organs. And they have, if such facts are present, they have to track and take steps to eliminate these negative phenomena. There is no direct connection to this bill. This is only about the right of customs to hold customs congregations in the first half of the year for a term. and this is an opportunity to obtain additional revenue from the state budget and, in the meantime, to carry out all procedural actions after the introduction of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u139	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vasil Petrovich Cuzko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! Our Committee believes that the failure of the Government to comply with our laws is very wrong. Why? It was agreed that the Customs Code should be in force as from 1 January. They don't make it. I think there's still an interest here that the Customs Code doesn't work, but it was the manual administration of our customs, which is today. But that, let's say, is my particular opinion. As far as the committee is concerned. Our committee has proposed that the Customs Code should not be introduced as of 1 July, if we are already delaying, but as of 1 January 2004. Why? Based on the figures that Vasily Vasilevich just reported, the budget will not be 200 million, but 434 if you take the data in half, because 217 times 2, 434. It's the same thing. About my faction. The Socialist faction will not vote in favour of the postponement of the deadlines for the entry into force of 1 January 2003 for one simple reason, which we believe that the colleague Kirilczuk has said will not comment, I will not repeat that if we introduce the Customs Code as of 1 January 2003, the manual administration of customs will end and billions will enter the budget and today we have manual administration. I said everything I wanted. Thank you. On behalf of the Committee, please support the entry into force not on 1 January, but on behalf of the Committee, and not on 1 July 2004, as of 1 January 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u141	Thank you, Vasil Petrovich. If you have a question, please write it down. Put it on the board. Yes. Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u142	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. This is where Deputy Dry of the SDPU said he didn't know how he was going to vote. Well, he's going to vote like a colleague of Surkiss will tell him, but I'd like to say, if we don't introduce this bill from January 1st, then we're actually going to continue manual control. And I want to ask, does it just add no to the introduction of this bill? Will the introduction add to the budget? To the reporter. And I want to say to the government: if the government isn't able to prepare the corresponding regulations in a year, pack the suitcases, get out of there! The opposition stands ready to form a government and do everything in accordance with legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u143	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned. You don't have to pinch it, it always votes right under economic laws. It's a one-time thing. I'll protect him. As far as I'm concerned, I'm a committee rapporteur, and I'm reacting to Terehin's message, so the Committee requests that if you postpone the date, not 1 July, but 1 January. This is important for economic actors. It's a clean economy. There's, as far as I'm concerned, both in administration and in planning my work. And it'll put more into the budget. As far as I can tell, twice what's planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u144	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u145	Thank you. You know, I have a big request for all the Ukrainian national deputies. There must be a difference between humor and toothache. And to the people's MP Rudzkowski, I will answer the words of the unforgettable Mikola Yakovchenk in his "Pharaohs": "White fever is work, brother, bad." I mean, that's what I said. I don't need advice from anyone, including your unitary Major Melnick. I will figure out how to vote for myself, because I am primarily responsible to the electorate, and not to any extent, Sir, Comrade Rudzkowski, I am not at all concerned with your point of view and your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u146	Yes, Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u147	Dear Vassil Petrovich, what is the motivation for the committee's position? The government is delaying, and the Codex is being passed on for six months. The committee goes even further, suggests six months. For whom is this done?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u148	Vladimir Kirilovich, I just responded. The Committee believes that either the code should work the way you and I have adopted, but as a result, that the government has given anything since 1 July, we propose that in mid-year we cannot change the rules of the game if we are a normal civilized State that is going to go to Europe or is already going as promised, we will take great steps in 2010. So if we want to go to Europe, we have to take dates for the end of the financial year, the financial year. This is our committee's argument. And if the government says that if we move, it gives 200 million by 1 July, and Vasily Vasiljevic just said that in a half-year, he gave 217 million fees, we're just saying that it's going to be 434 million, that's all. But not anymore! The code was to be adopted, yes, the sniveling, someone had to show that we were working hard. But they ignored the whole Parliament. I told you that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u149	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u150	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleague, you know this very story about how when a smart man was privatized, he said, "I don't need anything, give me one metre of the border." There is a problem, and there is a big problem. How do you feel about, well, really, why does the government propose to move this bill there for about a year? How do you feel about moving it, let's say, for years 5? I have two customs in my district, and I know this very well. Carry on for years 5. There are still countless unfinished homes, and there are still countless problems that need to be solved. For example, a new man came to the customs office of Galicka, and immediately the budget went twice as far as it went. As a result, may this be the case? Let us build this Ukraine, which is around the borders. Let's just say that there are normal houses, people will live normally, and then we'll move here to the center of Ukraine. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u151	I'll comment on this: you're offering every smuggler a border measure. That's how I got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u152	Thank you. Mikola Petrovich, thank you. Replica, Rudzkowski. Please don't call each other's names.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u153	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u154	Please move on to the discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Get ready, nigger. Well, all right, I realized that I made a mistake here, all right, we fixed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. What is the real reason for this bill to be introduced by the government? Sadly, only the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania responded. He said the real reason for this bill was 217 million dollars. The committee honoring Tsushka said even more: It counted 217 and 217 as 434. And I want you to count, not arithmetic, but you are, and I want you to count as an independent state parliament. [[in the 5th grade finish arithmetic study]] And if you step out of the interests of an independent state, this is what the situation looks like. Ukraine completes the procedure for entering the World Trade Organization, the WTO. It's becoming a market-economy country. In this regard, what you are counting arithmetically results in a few billion losses. So where's your arithmetic, then, Your Honor? Next. I'm saying it's a little bit different laws. I advise the government, and especially the Prime Minister, who has focused today very much on some of the issues of transfer of the experience of Donetsk, transfer of the experience of Donetskina, I mean negative experience, on the whole of Ukraine, and in particular on the fact that enterprises have the largest accounts in the Donetsk banks, so I would like you to make a seven-mile tour of the market near Odessa, where the cost of one container is already "The Mirror of the Week" to even open your eyes. [[It's me, Your Honor, it's scary for the state.]] One 20-pound container costs $100,000, between 50 and 100, depending on which street it's on, there are 15,000 containers. And even on defensive objects, there are bases where this property lies. The question today is much broader. Contraband is convenient today for those clans that are in power. That's why you don't want to introduce the Customs Code today. Cover the contraband and it'll stop. Here we have the national deputy Cassianenko, when he was the head of the U.S. military district in Odessa, came from the B.S.U.U. and was neither corrupt nor anything, he fired one of his deputies for having 40 containers, a deputy head of the U.S.S.O. district. Imagine the same market. And we're just saying 217 and we're multiplying by 2. We have to look at the political categories. Ukraine has to go to Europe, and the codex has to be introduced on time since January 1, 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u156	We're adding up your time again. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, prepare Teryochina.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I've worked on the committee and I've worked on economic policy, property management and investment in the past. This Customs Code was passed through our committee. I have witnessed the opposition of the adoption of the entire Customs Code, how difficult it has been for many years, over the years. Initially, it was intended to be introduced on July 1, last year, and then we went to a meeting and offered to enter it and recorded it on January 1, this year. Now the government is offering to move us for another six months, and the committee is proposing to move on for a year. What is the reason? This isn't about 217 million dollars that are going to come into the budget. Indeed, we need to be guided, not by arithmetic, but by algebra. If we shut down the smuggling, there will be much more money in the budget, and the later we introduce this Customs Code, the less revenue there will be. And it will be what the deputy of Jabor. There's interest, there's interest in corporate interest, the clan interest of certain people, certain groups of people who want to take advantage of this moment. The reason is to continue the customs congregations, the reason is to continue manual administration. That's where the reason is. I'm surprised at the position of government. By the way, what's done this time? We are told that it takes a very long time to put the Customs Code into effect. Did we not know that he would be put into effect the following year from January 1st? If you knew and agreed, and the Supreme Council committed you, why did you not work hard and powerfully to provide all the normative documents for the introduction of the Customs Code? There is deliberate delay. And the Supreme Council shouldn't go on about it. I propose not to support the government's proposal, not to support the proposal of today's committee-leading committee, but to vote in favour of the introduction of the Customs Code of January 1, 2003. And let's make the new government tense if it takes responsibility and let it work, and not budget it doesn't like, let's make the budget so simple for the government, let's make the Customs Code a year from now. If you are already at work, work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u158	Sergey Teryohin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies! I wasn't going to talk about it, I just heard these flaming speeches of a revolutionary nature, and I'm going to have to say two words. First of all, if someone read the Customs Code from those revolutionaries who are now speaking, they can see from there that the customs regime under the Customs Code is absolutely no different from the regime that exists today. Therefore, the problem of smuggling and corruption in the customs authorities does not lie with the acceptance or non - acceptance of the Customs Code. That's the first one. The other one. Regarding the world trade organization. Self - sufficient is the adoption of the Customs Code, not its entry into force. Please ask those people who are working on entering. Third. The position of the committee, which was expressed in the proposal to delay for 1 year the introduction of the Code, was not that the government did not do anything there, but that of another. Because, Mr. Cherniak, to you too, the Customs Code is full, I apologize for the non-parliamentary expression, the fool to rule. I'll just give you one example. We all know that fiscal law has a very important category as the customs value of goods. So you know what the Customs Code says? That the customs value of the goods is the cost of the contracts, taking into account the potential benefit of selling such goods in the customs territory of Ukraine. Oh, wow. Like us, pearls that were a committee on investment and national agriculture were accepted, we'll be used in practice. No one understands that. Therefore, our committee asked that the Codex be postponed for a year in order to make a capital repair of the document that had not yet been introduced. Because he was doing this code again and again, not a committee dealing with external trade finance, but some other committee. And finally. I'm not asking the government. However, this government has yet to come up with any documents. And I'm asking the MPs who adopted this Customs Code. More than 30 of the law - enforcement rules are contained in the Customs Code. Why would it be said not to write it in the text of a direct norm? So this question of delaying the introduction of this law is a question to us. And we think our committee did the right thing. Forget about any numbers or money, there are no novelties in the Customs New Code that would apply to changes in tariffs, rates or myths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u160	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u161	The question of the introduction of the Customs Code, whether since 2002 or 2003 is the work of our industry. I'd like to pay attention to your distinguished national MPs for the following. Yes, in the last few months, sock factories have virtually stopped in Ukraine: Zitomirska, Pritacka, Ternopilska, and others. The shoe companies stopped at the beginning of the year. The Swiss companies have reduced their production volumes by 40 percent to the internal market, such as the Chernigian Hymvolocne - Entrepreneurship, where 10,000 people work, has also stopped and for only one reason: government inactivity, executive power, corruption in customs and tax services. Yes, on the 7th km in Odessa every month, more than 10,000 small-scale industrial goods are sold at a billion dollars per month at demping prices without paying taxes and assemblies. Odessa Customs is not a hole in the budget, it's a gap. We discussed this issue in the presence of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the Supreme Court, now of the court, now the Attorney General is invited. Mr. Radchenko reported and said that there were 400 SPs in Ukraine other than Odessa, which unfortunately imported billions of dollars of produce into the customs territory of Ukraine without paying taxes. I'm asking the attorney general, what law does it take to stop smuggling to Ukraine? Why, for example, did I ask one of our colleagues what he would think? Because, in principle, we're on a faction when we make decisions, we're discussing and determining how the faction will vote, and so I apologize to my colleague if it was offensive to him when I told him that he would vote, as Surkis would say. For me, for example, it's not hurtful when someone tells me that I'm going to vote, as Alexander Frost will say. We are taking a principled position and I hope that their faction too will always take a principled position. But I point out that some factions control certain customs. The faction mentioned above is not excluded from controlling Western customs, the "Trud Ukraine" affects Odessa's customs. This process needs to be stopped, Mr. Attorney General, and everything imported into Ukraine should be taxed not once before, but since January 1, 2003. And that's why I'm asking you and the government officials to start working and give us the opportunity to work for our industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u162	You need every faction on customs, then there'll be no jealousy. Yes. That's right. Vladimir Stretovich, he's on the watch for the law, he said it was the wrong approach. I agree with him, too. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on the deadlines for its entry into force has been completed. Decisions will be made taking into account the circumstances and suggestions that are being made during the discussion. Dear colleagues, we need to consider and consult in this way. At 13 o'clock, we've got "Victory." We've got two more bills to consider by now. National MP Terjehochin suggests that we report immediately, give up up to five minutes from the committee and from the government, but then we need to consult. We have two reports of one and information. You could go two ways. The first way is to listen to the State Property Fund report as planned in time, the Attorney General's information, and then listen to the Difference, is to take as long as we need so that we can talk about it. There's another suggestion: don't deviate from the Rules. That is what the national MP of the Viennese people insists on. What do you think? So let's say, 13 hours -- we say, "It's different" for an hour, and then we continue our work. Let's hear it. Then don't hold the Attorney General. National MP Winsky from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u163	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't think we have enough time to consider all the questions. I think we should go straight to the Rules. We missed "Virgin" last Sunday. If we're moving today, we don't have the right to do this because there's a lot of questions in the national MPs that need to be highlighted and addressed. That's why I'm proposing, at 1:00, "Vast" to finish the session, as stipulated by the 14th hour regulation. And on Tuesday, start work on issues that we haven't finished today as predicted. And to follow the Rules so that the prosecutor knows clearly that he will be the first to speak on Tuesday, so that he does not go on a mission or he has no problems and so on, as before. So does the State Property Fund. So on Tuesday, we put the State Property Fund's first report, and on the other, we put the prosecutor's report. And let's move on to those issues that we haven't considered today. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u164	Infantry National Deputy. And now we're gonna keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u165	I think we always have those who are interested in it on Friday. We stayed waiting for the Property Fund report and a meeting with the prosecutor. That's why we're looking forward to it. That's why we have to break, if people come, sit here with us for two hours, listen to them briefly, so that we don't break this system. And the "Rizzna" will stay here, as usual, on "Rizzna." So I would count on it to be done the way Vladimir Mikhailovich suggested.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, this morning when I announced the schedule of meetings, in principle, we agreed that we would work today in such a way that the schedule of meetings would be exhausted. We've learned to hold 14 hours well, and then I'm not going to say that there's no replica. There are two suggestions. I come from the fact that according to the Rules, the position is correct with the People's Deputy of Viennese, at 1:00 p.m., you have to listen. If it were your good will, we could do it this way: now these two bills, then listen to the State Property Fund report -- it's the 14th hour. 20 minutes we're listening to the Attorney General's information, 10 minutes' information and 10 minutes' answers as we agreed. Then at 2:20 p.m., we take an hour and we spend "Variance." I'm announcing a draft law to amend the Ukrainian Business Taxation Act. the tax base, and at the same time, to provide information on the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation, with proposals by the President of Ukraine. To prepare for the people's deputy, Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, these two bills are quite complex. They are large in number and in their judgment are very important. But since we're limited in time, I'm going to try to express very short basic positions in both the first and the second bills. Or the second is a project. I will say right away that these bills are somewhat related, because the solution was the same as the bill that the President of Ukraine had promised, and he refused to accept it. So we were forced to repeat some of the positions in this bill that is being submitted today. The bill, the first bill to expand the tax base, it, like the Added Cost Tax Act and the Excise Assembly Act, applied to an increase in the tax base for the budget next year. And again, all of these rules, which the government has proposed, were again directed only to the rules of the law that allow tax evasion. Once again, it is suggested that the term should be introduced and that the concept of normal price should be expanded, since this is the most common mechanism for the formation of a tax base so as not to pay taxes. We cannot settle this issue when making a declaration, and in many cases the enterprise uses it. Such a progressive method, which we do not deny, is the right to transfer the damage suffered in the past to future tax periods. This is a widely accepted international norm, but its implementation and application in Ukraine shows that this half of the enterprises do not pay taxes using this method. We realize that by using the shortcomings of the law, many businesses have created artificial damage just to show off in their reports and not to pay in future periods, using the right to carry these losses. We're aware that some businesses have problems doing business, they get damage, they have to be covered up. And the government is proposing this right to leave, but to limit the possibility of completely covering these losses so that the state will receive its share as a profit tax in future periods. The same bill also deals with the issue of reverse financial assistance, other issues that are being used, I repeat, for tax evasion. When we met on committees and factions, some objections were expressed that these standards were not acceptable. The government has agreed, and I would like to make some deviations from the government project that I would like it to be recorded in the transcript, and in the vote, that's taken into account. The government is proposing that article 5 of this bill should be removed from consideration of dividend tax, since it is depreciated by the President, article 8th and article 12th. These are small changes, but as long as there are substantial objections and factions and committees, the government would like this to be taken into account in the vote. All other standards we ask to consider and vote on. Now regarding the veto of the President of Ukraine. You remember the honourable national MPs who accepted the bill. There have been huge contradictions by the government in the individual positions of this bill. We couldn't convince the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council accepted. But the arguments put forward by the President, the President took them in and vetoed the project and invited the Supreme Council to review it. The President's proposals are made, where it is stipulated, on what positions and on what grounds the President cannot sign. These positions can be divided into two parts, both economic and legal. The president points out that many of the rules introduced in this law narrow down the tax base. This is also the novelty that the authors proposed, the cost of accounting for taxes that are not directly related to production, the financing of the social sphere, the financing of activities, as stated in this project, the Housing Fund, this is also an increase in some of the standards of charitable contributions, and so on. This leads to a narrowing of the base, and the President drew attention to this, including the introduction of advance contributions. In 2003, all of this will have a negative impact on the already proposed base. The calculations are done, the President said it's 2 billion dollars we have to subtract from the income tax that was already proposed in the 2003 budget. And relative to legal standards. There is a violation of the Constitution, there is a violation of the laws in force. And in particular, the President pointed out that the principles of a judgmental and non-judicial decision were being violated, the way in which it was written. And we're particularly concerned about the norm where the committee has proposed declarations to agree with a committee formed by the President's tax administration that neither the Supreme Council Act nor the Committee's Constitution gives this right, and the President has asked that these warnings be withdrawn. I'm done for a while. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the government's options.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u168	Thank you. Sergey Teryohin. Dear colleagues! We agreed that the broadcast of "different" would be. I'd ask my colleague Winsky if we could move, but he'll still be broadcasting. Do you agree with this proposal? Please. National Deputy Lechchenko, Communist faction of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u169	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We have a question to the reporters, and you want these laws to pass so quickly that you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u170	Please, Vasil Vasilovich. Questions. Please sign up. I'm a machine gun. Please. National MP Polit, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u171	Thank you very much. Polit, the Communist faction. I ask you to pass the word to Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u172	National Deputy Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u173	National Deputy Lechchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vassil Ivanovich! I understand the good intentions of the government to reduce the tax burden on taxpayers so that they are not afraid to pay taxes. But there are other ways to do this. They'll steal and steal. How, then, can we understand this? Paragraph 7.8.2 in the Act in force: "The taxpayer who pays dividends to his shareholders shall hold a dividend tax of 30 per cent of the amount charged for such payments." And in the new bill, only 15 percent. So those stockholders are there in the majority, and the truth is they were there yesterday. It smells like something else. I'm asking you to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u174	Thank you. The mechanism that works is so called a precautionary scheme. Sergey Anatolyevich will talk about it. Which predicts that a corporation that pays dividends to its shareholders pays up to 30 percent. What it pays for dividends reduces tax liabilities as a corporate tax. We changed that formula. We have just come from the fact that each subject has a certain share of the tax to pay to the state. The corporation has to pay 30 percent as a profit tax, and each shareholder has to pay a certain amount. But to eliminate this economic double taxation, we used what's called a less tax-paying method for the dividends that the shareholder receives -- 15 percent. [[I don't know what it's called correctly-- a classic method, so it's applied]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u175	Paul Zebravsky, faction of our Ukraine. There's no Jebrowsky? That's what you're saying. Please, George Carmazin, and Paul Zebrovsky while you are there, check the technique. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Please tell the honourable reporter, have you not seen, by making these proposals, that the existing tax system under which taxation is taking place today is more conducive to the development of a domestic enterprise? And I think I'm going to ask that question again that didn't come up. less than 40 votes last time, it's just politically wrong. What explains the position of the government that it is once again promoting a bill that did not support the majority in this room? Is it just a government configuration? What new arguments do you issue in order to reject the more perfect bill that Terhochin reported and to insist on your own?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u177	Ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that professionals working with the law have analyzed where we lose our income, where we avoid taxes on businesses. And it is in this bill that the pathways that are now being used by business entities are being closed. Our bill can in no way make things worse and affect the economy and the business. This bill covers ways of tax evasion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u179	Thank you. Paul Zebrovsky, please, the faction of "Our Ukraine." Does it work there already?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u180	65 Berdichovsky constituency, Paul Zebrovsky. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, the question is. In your bill, you're offering to pay a tax on the return on profits, but in fact, you can give an example like this, when you get a loan, the company doesn't pay taxes on what you get, but with a return on financial assistance, it has to pay back this financial aid and you're offering to pay the tax on profit. However, the company that paid the tax has already paid the tax once and provides financial assistance from that income. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u181	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this standard of negotiable financial assistance is a tool used to finance entities without paying taxes. Costs come from nonresidents from offshore areas, costs come from untaxed groups and businesses, on a single tax or on a special patent, those enterprises that do not pay income taxes. Hence, they have the opportunity to finance the second subject in such ways. We suggested that we receive this help in return, payment of taxes. You'll get it back any time, you'll be counted as expenses. This is where the mechanism works. But this aid is provided tens of years later, and it is expected to be returned in 50, 40 years later.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u182	Please, Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! The committee considered, on financial and banking matters, a bill issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine suggested that it should be rejected for the reason that you were offered here in July this year, when, indeed, we received a bill of fifty, I think, four votes. I'd just like to remind you once again what he's offering, some positions that the government is offering. Well, let's say that the negative value for future periods is only 40 percent of that negative. So this is, frankly, very much in shipbuilding, let's say, in cyclical production, in seasonal production and so on, in enterprises that are being built. Suppose there is a monthly payment of this tax, which, on average, brings about an average of 74 days for a cyclist to increase his mortgages and reduces the discipline of payment. It's proposed to change the depreciation rate by eventually reducing the depreciation rate by 150 million dollars next year. Although we all know very well that in Ukraine, there is generally a so-called problem in the SND countries in 2005, when more than 92 percent of the core funds introduced before 1991 are out of service. So we, if we want to make a naturalized country, a banana republic, then we have to go not by increasing depreciation as a source of financing, reproducing an enterprise, but, as proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, by reducing. By the way, this position contradicts, I just remind representatives of the government, of the position of the President of Ukraine, who has repeatedly expressed his concern at the very small standards of depreciation that we have. Now, he's addressed us twice with letters -- "European Choice" and standard annual. And in that, and in another he wrote or wrote to him, I don't know that the average return on capital of the core funds is going to be 14-16 percent. We have eight today. We suggest in our law that the committee make about 12. And the government is proposing to do 7. So I would like there to be some kind of consistency in the positions of the government or the individual officials and the President of the country. Although, frankly, it's their business, not mine. About dividends. That's a very interesting question. Today, there is a principle that does not allow for the commutative payment of dividends to be made by another enterprise. If payment is made to a natural person, you and I will be looking at the 26-number law on taxation of natural persons. There is taxation of dividends in individuals. However, when one enterprise pays another, there must be a way of taxing it so that it does not charge dividends in commutation. The government has proposed to do instead of 30 percent tax, which is today, 45 percent, roughly plus taking into account the commutative effect, which also leads to the naturalization of production. That is, the government wants us to have no cases where one enterprise has shares in another enterprise, only natural persons. Well, let's imagine a country like that. I want to tell you one more thing. For two weeks, together with the government's working group, we worked out President of Ukraine's proposals for a law on the profit of businesses. And I'm going to report that just last week, the final edition that will be issued today, the next 1276/1, which takes fully into account the resource articles, gives about 2 billion 400 with extra copies of the resource base to the budget, if you do all of these resource articles, and takes most of the President's comments into account. That's why the committee's proposal and my personal proposal -- in the first vote of this bill -- to vote on the law that we have already passed with you, 290 votes, taking into account some of the President's proposals, and to send it back to the President of Ukraine for signature. Let the government accept it and enter it by January 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? It doesn't, does it? Well, then sign up for five minutes. Light up on the board. National Deputy Lechchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u185	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, you know very well that many individuals have become legal. Well, that's different. Please explain this question to the electorate: What will be used to increase the income of the budget under 4.1.1? Gross income for tax purposes includes income from sales of goods, jobs, services at prices, anticipated contracts between the taxpayer and the buyer, but not lower than 10 percent of the standard prices applied by the taxpayer when selling identical, uniform goods, jobs, services. It turns out that 10 percent is possible, but not below. So it's going to be less in the revenue budget. They make deals with each other and make this affair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u186	This rule, which is proposed by the government and is not supported by us, speaks only of one thing: increasing the personal income of tax inspectors. You know very well that the same product in Kiev and in the village when it's sold has a different price. It may be that this month it costs 30 percent more than the next month. There are seasonal discounts, and so on and so forth. So this rule has been severely criticized by our committee. And again, in addition to increasing corruption in test subjects, we haven't found anything positive about it. That's why we rejected it, and we're proposing to adopt our bill, not the one put forward by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u187	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u188	School Andrew, Julia Timoshenko faction, bloc, Ukrainian National Assembly Mr. Sergei, I'd like to make a point, because this point that my colleague just mentioned is the same to me. But in general, let's get human. Our listeners now, our voters often don't see the meaning of this law in terms of terminology. So why don't you explain to them how much more this revenue will increase the budget, the adoption of this law, by how much? And how much will the income of those who collect taxes be reduced, primarily by officials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u189	Thank you. That's a very good question. When I talk about a bill that's being submitted by a committee, not a government, it's very difficult for me to evaluate a government bill to a degree of corruption, let's say, or an increase in profits, but what we're selling, what we've done. First of all, they gave me a big tip to payers. Many direct standards were clearly written. We had this, all the accountants know who's listening now, the 306th order that was issued by the Tax Office on Income Taxation. So he broke economic logic, and in general, the legislation was somewhere, we counted, in 20 places, imagine. We fixed all of this and put it right in the law. But in view of the fact that we have legalized the holes used to avoid this tax, the resource that we have added to our budget is very pessimistic: it's 2 billion 435, I think, millions of dollars. And this resource is confirmed by the committee. This is a number that was confirmed by the Committee on Finance and Banking, which is an official figure. We sent this figure to the budget committee to calculate the future revenue of the budget. Well, there's one more thing. Vasil Vasilovich Regurecki denied that our committee wanted to reconcile the declarations with that tax. We want to harmonize declarations not only with this tax, but with all taxes. Why? Because laws are being broken by adopting such forms of declarations as are now in place. And we can't let that happen. Among other things, this is the case, Vasil Vasilovich, when there is some agreement in the Budget Code with the Budget Committee, when the Anti-Criminality Act agrees with the Professional Committee. That's why it's normal. It's only for the help of the Cabinet of Ministers. And there's one more thing I wanted to say. Do you know what the paradox of the officials of the Cabinet of Ministers is? The government of Kinnah has asked the President to sign this law. And Prime Minister Kinakh, the last submission was Kuchmi, wrote that he did not see sufficient grounds for vetoing. However, in view of the fact that he was not uneconomically but perhaps psychologically unacceptable to the former minister of finance, let us speak directly, meaning that the officials simply spoke up. And they blocked that decision. Once again, we have taken into account some of the articles and ask for the support of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u190	Okay. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the question. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. Please. We can't stop the question, we can't. We need to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u191	Yuri Kamarazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", the Party "Protectors of the Motherland." Now it was my turn to ask Sergey Anatolyovich, I couldn't ask him, I think you counted the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u192	He chooses as much as you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u193	We've figured it out. So, honourable national MPs, we are now considering two bills at the same time, which in general have a completely different purpose and a different purpose. Bill 1276-1, with the President's remarks, is a progressive bill aimed at lowering the tax burden that should have been adopted, and the committee here is proposing correctly; and Bill 2482, which has already been rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and received less than 40 votes, is certainly a bill that is detrimental to the economy of the state. So let's compare the incomparable. And that's hard to do. I'll start with the last one. According to the President, according to the law, according to the date on which the law became effective on January 1, it violates the requirements of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and part five of article 1 of the Ukrainian Tax Act. And those four draft laws that we started looking at today don't violate? They're all committed, dear friends. Let's make sure we have one morale and one approach. I'm talking to the government. If you're speaking from this high rostrum, let's have one moral. Because it turns out that the President has observations about himself and the government, and there are three approaches to this question, and there is also in the leadership of the Supreme Council. We see now, and briefly if I say so, then the general conclusion I'm saying is that there's an MP's bill that's progressive and it's aimed at lowering taxes. Further delaying the adoption of this law will further aggravate the state of entrepreneurial activity in the State. And as far as it goes, to the end, to Law 2484. We're discussing two laws right now. As far as this law is concerned. That's what's supposed to be the transfer of damages just for the tax year, not for the tax district, as it is for today. This would prevent tax payers from paying for the damage caused by the introduction of entrepreneurial activities during the year. The limit on the amount of income within which it is possible to offset the damage, with 40 percent, will not allow the damage of past periods to be extinguished again. That's what this law will do. So I call for the first law to fall down, the MP to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u194	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich, please, Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u195	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill is clear. I support the offer of a profile committee and colleague of Carmazin. Taking this opportunity, I would like to put this issue into a broader context. The laws that we are discussing today have been promulgated by the government as a means of increasing revenue to the budget. I would say that this is, on the one hand, a copy of the government's work, and on the other hand, the bills have novels that contribute to an increase in corruption. And that's why they're unacceptable. But I'd like to ask the government if he's out there looking for funds to fill the budget. I'm sure he's not there. If you want, I'll tell you absolutely free where you can find the funds to fill the budget. First of all, it's a significant decrease, and even better, it's a tax disposal. Tax evasion now accounts for 14 billion dollars. The rate of increase in income tax is 700 million dollars per month. The government plans to grow the wetlands for the next year. The Supreme Council of Government is writing it down every year and instead of the government and the State Tax Administration taking extraordinary measures to fight undernutrition, they're offering us these bills. Tax policy’s main problem is not just the high tax pressure but the uneven distribution of taxes: some pay intolerable taxes, others with no tax pay. This is the government's job, where to fight and where to look for money. The other one. Most businesses in Ukraine hide profits, hide state-owned enterprises, hide state-owned enterprises. Once again, the government does nothing to prevent profits from being hidden. And then there'll be income taxes and there'll be an increase in revenue to the budget. The third is the energy supply. There's a huge shortage of revenue in the energy budget! And once again, there are certain interests, lobbying is neither the previous government nor the previous government, and I see, and this government doesn't want to work to take the money into the budget. And the fourth is privatization. At all times, the government assures us that it is not possible and that the State Property Fund cannot be increased by privatisation. That's not true! In Ukraine, much of government property is owned outside the privatization process, outside the law. And once again, there is no fight against this, so that it doesn't. And the conclusion. The government now tells us that the budget should be real. He means what? In order for the budget not to be strained, so that it does not have to be strained and to leave the funds instead of mobilising, leaving them for the next presidential election, leaving them for other needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u197	The main task of the government is to mobilize financial resources for the budget. This function is virtually impossible for any government to perform and should be put to rest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u198	Thank you. All right, we're done here. Minfin, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u199	Thank you, thank you. I would just like to remind Sergey Anatolyovitch Teryochina, who has always consistently acted and acted for equal treatment of all forms of property, but noting that he did not say anything that he envisaged to be removed from state-owned enterprises in addition to the payments they pay 30 percent, billion and 800. Sergey Anatoliyovich didn't say anything, so I want to say, back to what I've been proposing to the National Deputy of Assadchev, a request to take a real look at the proposals made by the government. As to what the government was offering and agreed to, well, the previous government agreed with what was proposed in the previous law that the President had rejected, I want to say that on these four pages, which are set out here, this is not, as they say, political issues, but the issues that are being raised that are losing the budget. This is the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u200	Thank you. Yes, Teryohin, one minute. This indicates that we have reserves of cooperation between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u201	Frankly, six years of working with the dignitaries gave me a lot of knowledge, I hope they do, too. And I think that the two deputy secretaries of the state will still support this bill, which is being passed by the committee. Regarding taxes on state enterprises. Alexi Ivanovich here expressed himself, but not as he should have expressed himself. According to the management theory, any enterprise that owns a public or private enterprise pays dividends to that owner, if the owner wants it. So tell me, why does NAC, let's say, put 800 million in the holding and not in the budget? Why doesn't a dividend pay such a profitable structure as "The Shrine," why do these managers, who are appointed to their posts, among other executive authorities, do nothing to make part of the profits, such as dividends, give to the owner, namely the state? We have provided for such a right in our law. Moreover, we will ask you, when you adopt the budget, to provide for mandatory payments by such monopolies in the form of a return on the money that the State has invested in their dividends. So I ask once again on behalf of the committee to support our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, the consideration of the two bills has been completed. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion during the vote. We agreed to listen to the State Property Fund now. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE No, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have a deal, I'd like to say again. Dear colleagues, your will, as we have determined. From the very beginning, we agreed that the broadcast would be until 3:20, right? There's going to be a live broadcast and we're going to be able to do it. Come on, State Property Fund 45 minutes. 45 minutes to consider this matter. The committee proposed 60. I don't think there's any people in the room right now to vote. Please proceed with the procedure of Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u204	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we do not mind listening to the report of the Keeper Foundation, realizing that this question may take more than 45 minutes. But the point is, each of the deputies is focused on the needs that shape his work schedule. I have a meeting with representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in about 30 minutes. I have to be there, but I've got a different one, and I've actually stayed here, even ignoring the need to say something about people's concerns today and being misinterpreted or inadequately explained by the media. I think I'm entitled to this because I have voters I'm meeting without using an audience like a radio or anything. And I have the opportunity to explain my position, the position of my colleagues, there is no other position. So when we make a first-hour deal on Friday, we have to have "Rizzle." And let's listen to the head of the holding fund on Tuesday or after the "Virgin" today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u205	Please, calm down. This morning we agreed on how we would proceed. You agreed on your own, now others say -- you agree with others at the same time. We said the broadcast would be. So let's, let's say, Your Honor, I'm going to propose, we're going to go to the discussion, and Alexander Alexandrovich will speak in the discussion, and he'll talk about his application, and we'll go ahead and we'll keep going. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u206	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u207	Sit down, Alexander Mikolayovich. Please don't scream, calm down. Please sit down. Have a seat. So let's make a deal: now we're spending an hour on "Vast" and then we're continuing our consideration of the State Property Fund, and then we're continuing with the Attorney General's information issues and all the questions that were planned before. Let's see who's staying in the session room after that. And I suggest you publish the lists. Please explain to those who signed up for "The Different" because it's not the result, it's not the job, it's just the political position. National MP Puzakov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u208	Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I've been approached by a working group of the Kirovograd Academy and Production of Blind UTOS. Their specialized enterprise produces filter elements. It was a powerful and only specialized company after the release of filter elements in Ukraine. The special equipment for production was not produced, and the company was making out of its own individual drawing of nonstandard equipment and thermal equipment. In the early 1990s, in Kirovograd and Kharkiv, air filter elements began to be released, thereby dispossessing the work of disabled people. In Ukraine a filter boom began, producing them in every area. To survive in today’s unregulated market, the blind had to expand their production range, and they are now producing 30 kinds of filter elements. But the trouble is that a similar range produces a business where healthy, visionary people work, taking jobs from people with disabilities who can produce only such, not very technologically complex products. Obedient, perfectly healthy people who are capable of loving work should not take away work from the disabled in the sight of the first and second groups that they have been doing for several decades. The demand for filter elements in Ukraine is limited, and thus, with the unwarranted appearance of such a number of their manufacturers, the sales of the products have fallen to zero. They work between 1 and 2 hours and only 1 to 2 weeks of work. The invalid's salary is 15 dollars in actual time. Is it possible for the blind and the blind to live for such money? The company UTOS has specialized, has accumulated manufacturing experience for years, has developed and implemented dozens of technological tools, allowing a blind person to produce quality products. And that's why it's almost impossible to change the profile of production right now. The blind business is unable to compete with the visually impaired producers, and this has shown life. So I'm coming out of the proposal to support a disabled company called UTOS, so that, on a national level, it's a legislative way to set up a list of products that would produce only blind enterprises or grant a temporary license for the single-person release of their products, the filter elements. And please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, consider this as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u209	National Deputy Seminouk, prepare Demjochina. Valentina Petrovna, please. Alexander Alexanderus Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u210	Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I've been specially delayed in order to appear in the Miscellaneous, because yesterday's news shows on central television, on all its channels, have distorted the essence of what happened yesterday in Parliament. Having no other ability to explain to people what was going on here, I asked the faction for permission to speak today at the Miscellaneous. First. The conflict that took place yesterday was actually in Parliament, caused by Bank Street, and you know what this institution is in Kiev. And the general reason for this conflict is to try to break Parliament, to demonstrate the power of power, to confirm the many statements on this point that have already been made: the power is unmovable, powerful and capable. Showing power to demonstrate responsibility for personal sins, including criminal, senior officials, is not afraid. All of this is possible if there is no working situation in Parliament, if there is no consolidation, so the majority rape by forcing the vote and for what some or many deputies disagree with. The compromise between factions is necessary in Parliament, of course. And this compromise is possible, but this compromise is possible if it's in the middle of Parliament, not in the office of the President of Ukraine, because it doesn't need this compromise because it's inconvenient because it's in the power of the cause and the purpose that I've just mentioned. And it's not even about the head of the National Bank of Stelma. It was an excuse. But there is a very serious reason, for it is a position that is nowhere in the world that is taken into account in political bargaining, in the pursuit of a common political position. There are no objective reasons, and that is what everyone in Parliament knows. Since the bank’s two - and - a - half - dollar reserves have increased in the years of management by the National Bank of Stelma, the bank’s currency reserves have remained stable, which has not been observed in most post - Soviet countries. And the rate of refinancing, and accordingly the commercial bank's credit rates have gone down three times, the rate of refinancing from 24 percent to 7 percent. Thus, there was no objective basis for this bid to be placed on the market, on the condition that there was, or there was no departure from office. Moreover, the President had just submitted twice for release without even arguing, and then forced Stelmach to write a statement, and this was evident even from the fact that there was immediately a third representation of the President for the release of Vladimir Seminovich. That is why we could not allow such abuse of substance or abuse of Parliament. What's been going on and on is all nonsense. I've heard that one of the MPs who protected the President was drowning in shoes and factions, we don't have much, we'll buy him some. But the point is that it was a forced conflict and there was nothing so terrible that it allowed tears to be spread in the central media.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u211	People's MP Demyohin, get ready for Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u212	Respectable leaders of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! The motivation for my statement today is based on concern about the quality of the basic document of our economic and social life. It is this document, the State programme for economic and social development, which we do not yet have for the next year. We considered the draft programme twice on the committee, and twice, to put it mildly, have been criticized. To be frank, there is essentially no programme and there is a set of activities. Needless to say, the programme is the most important mechanism through which you and I can influence the development of the State as a whole and each area of activity individually. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, was reminded that an urgent action programme should be developed. To consider a separate programme of such urgent activities is to have two programmes in the State, one of which will not comply with the Ukrainian Constitution. In this regard, I would like to highlight your attention to the following. The existence of two programmes would mean that there would be none. The existence of two programmes would create a legal conflict related to the uncertainty of preference between the activities of those programmes, and there would be a blurring of responsibility. Two programmes seriously violate the principles of a systematic approach to planning and ultimately the management of the country's economic and social development. We cannot achieve systemivity within the same programme. Indeed, the updated Government has the right and unique opportunity afforded by the Constitution of Ukraine to declare and make legitimate its plans to lead the economy and social life of Ukraine. Very little time has been allowed for these activities. I would like to propose a sufficiently rational and clear solution. It is necessary to focus on bringing to a high-quality level the only programme, the Constitution of the State Programme for Economic and Social Development. An important structural part of the public programme should be urgent, which would naturally result from the systematic planning methodology. The most important activities should be the concentration of force on several main sectors of the country's economy, such as TEC, metallurgy, construction, aviation. In terms of investment and innovation. After all, it is time for the declarations to reach the social dimension of the programme, the first part being the payment of savings under the Reservoir, the provision of normal salaries for teachers, medics, the housing of veterans and youth. Sources for this are the privatization programme until 2008. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u213	National deputy Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, prepare Harmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u214	Mikola Shershun, Plainish, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, regrettably now in need of a return to the problems of the people and territories affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I don't want to comment on the inappropriateness of the expenditure planned for next year's real needs, because we're betting as much as we have, but I would like both the Supreme Council and the government to do everything they can to make sure that the funds in 2003 are in place in full, not like this year's. The state of financing the ecological recovery of areas is particularly worrying. For example, only 128 thousand dollars or 6 percent of budgeted funds were allocated to the Plains for this year. The same is true of financing health care. But it must finally be understood that by not financing the path of ecological recovery, the state is presuming that it will pay off the benefits for life, of which the debt to the Plains alone today is almost 70 million. In addition, people living in a polluted area have lost hope of a normal development in the region. So today, the Ministry of Finance may have had to review the unknowable priorities of financing only specific articles of Chernobyl spending, since the failure to finance the debt, re-leverage and limeland will necessarily result in a social and economic downturn because of the accident of the traditional activities of the population — agriculture and forestry. Instead, no alternatives have been offered during this time, so it is extremely urgent to initiate and support us, the National Deputies, the creation in these areas of profitable investment zones. This would be able to solve the problems of employment, significantly increase the volume of local income, and then the main thing is to find additional and today the only cost of curing polluted areas. But this is the perspective. And today I want to address the Prime Minister of Ukraine. In the Plain region, only 160,000 of the 2 million 450,000 have been funded in the direction of health care. As a result, there was a debt for medical supplies and medical equipment purchased for the hospital. Dozens of them are 12 children waiting for surgery on the heart, aorta, brain, and various cancers. We MPs have a lot of problems to solve, but the worst thing to see is the eyes of the mother who came to the reception, begging to fund the operation of her sick child. Dear Victor Fedorovich, everyone is said to have gone through the lower installations, so I have to look to you sincerely for a solution to this very important question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u215	National Deputy Garmash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. To prepare Joseph for Winski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u216	Garmash Galina, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'm addressing the voters from this rostrum. The theme of my speech is "Ukrainian Justice". The authorities, more and more, have acquired signs of junta, juntas in Ukrainian, meaning the alliance of oligarchs, high-ranking State bureaucrats and power structures. First, illegal decisions to ban protests, demonstrations, picketings. More than that, the destruction of tent towns of Ukraine without Kuchma, the rise, Ukraine!" who have appeared in Ukraine as political prisoners. The amendment of the Constitution, the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, this junta with machine guns, shields and depths meets the people's deputies in the Presidential Administration, does not give the people's deputies air. It's about simple deaths. Here's the chronicle of the latest junta feats. Cercassy. The printing of the Cercas Communion of Cercas, where the opposition newspapers “Grani”, “A summary”, “People’s Justice” were printed. The local police, the prosecutor's office, are conducting mass interrogations of members of the "Resurrection, Ukraine" campaign. Virtually all the offices of the Socialist Party have been externally monitored and telephones are being listened to. Kharkov. There is a moral terror against the student of the Harkov Academy of Urban Affairs, Igor Bibik. For the third month, the representatives of the municipal administration of the interior of Major Sitnikov-Buzko have been questioning him, parents, neighbours, asking the same questions: why Igor participated in the action “Recurrence, Ukraine!"? Who guided him? Who financed it? And it's like that. On 19 November, he was forcibly taken from the institution for questioning. It appears that a circular from the Ministry of the Interior has come to answer 62 similar questions. The same situation in Lviv with young socialist Sergei Schlaruuk, who has been called to police and prosecutorial questioning for the sixth time. And there are dozens of such examples of young socialists. Kiev. The Office of the Prosecutor of the White Church, Brovarov, Kyevo-Svítosinsky and other areas, under various pretexts, has been called by the leaders of party organizations at the BSS to provide information on the protests. Lugansk region. The Luhansk District Courts prohibit the holding of protests in September and then apply administrative penalties to its participants. Zaporozhye district. Immediately, two Zaporozhye District Courts banned the action “Putin, do not give Kuchma your hand” during a visit by the Russian President. The so-called independent court found that the members of the Sozparija Kuznetsov, 9th Street, Gajduk were guilty only because they had participated in the meeting with the people's deputies. You will ask me: Where can I find the truth? How can you protect yourself? In any case, I can only say that we can turn to God. Even those who have to stand in the service of the law are shamelessly violating it. On several occasions, the Regulatory Committee has considered the question of co-joint deputies. One typical example. In violation of the Constitution, the Ukrainian People's Deputy Act continues to combine the MP's mandate with the activities of the President of the Supreme Council of Justice and the President of the Odessa National Legal Academy. Fewly, the Kyiv Court of Appeal refused to accept the statement by the President of the Supreme Council that the mandate of the People's Deputy should be terminated early. The Regulatory Committee would have to do almost investigative work in the office, look for the court's decision, and the deadline had expired. Finally, on behalf of the women of the people's deputies of Ukraine, I would like to express our contempt for the people's representative of Surkis, who raised his hand yesterday to the fragile woman of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko. And if the men of the people can't respond to these actions, we can stand for ourselves. Hunta won't make it! Surkis is a disgrace!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u217	National MP Winsky, get ready for Carmazin. Please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u218	Vladimir Mikhailovich, is an unpleasant news to you, and Julia Timoshenko will speak instead of Winsky. I just wanted to have words, and I want to thank both Mr. Winski and Pavlovski and the Little One who gave me the word, and I can speak for nine minutes. Dear friends, I have only returned from the city of Neteshina Hmielnicki district, where we were with Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz, and I can say that society, people, average citizens do not fully understand what is happening to us on the mountain, in politics. They both lived and lived after the elections on March 31st, living in the worst way and seeing a way out of their plight. And that's why I wanted, first of all, to use the microphone to give them knowledge of what's going on in society and where the way out of this is not a very good condition that we're all in. And I want to start by saying that two or three months ago, the whole of Ukraine went into a fundamentally new phase of our political life. What is it? If three months ago officials such as Kuchma, Kynach, Azarov, and if the clans had used them, they would have found understanding and used them for their own good. A few months ago, the situation changed dramatically -- and the clans themselves, their leaders, and became officials, became their own power. Medvedchuk took office as head of the President's Administration, and no longer knows who rules the country: Kuchma or Medvedchuk, who is the second. Janukovic, who is the head of a powerful daughter clan, has already become Prime Minister himself. All positions of government ministers are clearly distributed among the three clans that exist in Ukraine. Today, unfortunately, the situation is indeed critical because they have been building the country’s entire life for the sake of their own personal interests. Question: What to do in this situation, what to do after the coup d'état? Of course, we launched a September 16 campaign that brought almost all political opposition forces together. And we have tried and tried to unite society in order not to accept this terrible situation. Sometimes says most, or representatives of most, that action, "Rise, Ukraine!" It doesn't give anything at all. That's not true. To this action Kuchma planned to go to the third term, today he is no longer going anywhere, but he is advised on how to give his successor power over time. The other one. There was a judge in Ukraine who was acting as a judge who violated Kuchma's 11 episodes of criminal activity. Full isolation of Kuchma abroad. The complete isolation of Kuchma in society, because society doesn't even support this President by 1 percent. In such a situation, he certainly cannot be in office for a long time. And we, in unifying all our efforts, all four opposition forces in Parliament: the Communists, our Ukraine, led by Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenk, the Socialists led by Alexander Alexander Moroz, the political force that I lead, we all have a clear commitment together until spring: to take Kushma out of power, and we will do so. He won't have stability for one day or an hour. It is enough to abuse all of Ukraine for many years. But despite the fact that they are as weak today as ever. We have to protect the last of our barricades, I mean, the National Bank of Ukraine. The National Bank, which, by the will of President Kuchma, has also been placed in the environs of its surroundings. Today, one of the people around Kuchma is his son-in-law, Pinchuk, is claiming to be his man, Sergey Tihypco, to be the head of the National Bank. I mean, it's not that Sergey Leonidovich is not an expert, he's a normal person, and most deputies respect him. But it's different. And I put that situation on the Conciliation Council yesterday. A week before the Stelmacha vote in the Supreme Council, I was invited by one of the heads of the National Bank to meet. And yesterday I told everyone who attended the Conciliation Council about the substance of this meeting. The point of this meeting is that one of the heads of the National Bank gave me the original documents of what they were preparing to do with the National Bank. The first document is the decision of the government, the decision of the government with which China came to the National Bank. This decision states that the National Bank is supposed to simulate 3.5 billion dollars of additional funds and, by some procedure, conduct these costs. The second document I saw is the Commission's decision on securities, which is the government authority that gives NAC Naftogazu's trading house the right to simulate bonds for 3.5 billion dollars. All other documents continue to describe how these costs will move. 3.5 billion dollars is going to be drawn by the National Bank, which is an issue that's going to damage the stability of the bracelet. On the other hand, a 716,000 - dollar - dollar trading house released an empty, unsecured paper bond for 3.5 billion dollars. All Ukrainian commercial banks will be forced to purchase these bonds and then sell them to the National Bank under their commercial bank guarantees. This is the destruction of commercial banks, because 20 percent of the value of these bonds at least these national banks can reserve, they have to reserve living and living assets -- it's the destruction of our banking system. Further, debts are artificially created in front of the House of Commerce. That is, some people bought credit debt for 3 to 5 percent of the nominal, that is, the debt of a trading house to certain commercial structures, and that 3.5 billion dollars will be paid to a certain entity from the House of Commerce at nominal cost. So 97 percent of the volume of the show is going to be spent real money. Where else will this cost go? You realize these guys don't need bracelets. They're about to go to the conversion market. And that means that 700 million dollars from the National Bank's currency reserves will be invested in these commercial structures during conversion. This is a significant decline in the national bank's currency reserves. And no one thought about it when they thought about it when they signed these government documents that were happening to our banking system. The bracelet will never hold. And I was shown three more projects for similar operations that the National Bank was offered to do. And so, not the question of Stella, but the question of our life with you. Most of the time, there are bank managers, and most of the time, there are managers of powerful businesses, mines, and so forth. We don't understand that as a tool, we're all going to be used, and then the interests will be absolutely clear and straightforward. Who's behind this? The trade boom, NAK Naftogaz, led by Mr. Kiselov, who was on the list of Social Democrats in the twenty-ninth issue. [[United]] It's all Surkis and Medvedchuk operations. And that's why he hit me in the front of you yesterday and hit me in the back, because Surkiss couldn't just hold back his zeal for putting all this information on the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u219	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u220	And the last thing I want to say. We can be the majority and the minority, we can be the opposition and the powerful factions, and we must always remain citizens of Ukraine and not surrender the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u221	Finish up or I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u222	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u223	I'm reading to the Pavlovsky National Deputy that you can pass on the word, but not more than two times. That's for the next time I'm just giving information. National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u224	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! It's a shame that today, when we talk about issues that are going to be dealt with in the "Different," it's not really a matter of difference, it's the fate of the state. And what Julia Timoshenko said today, we raised these questions yesterday, speaking here with a megaphone, I was talking about this 3.5 billion. But the National Securities Commission issued a permit for Naftogaz of Ukraine. How can the criminals of this commission continue to sit in a government bed today?Oh, my God! They need to be banned forever and ask Mr. Piscoon to see if the cause of the killing of some of the members of this committee is precisely that. And we need to look at whom to take precautions regarding criminal responsibility. In addition, I'll tell you that the Ministry of Finance is not improving borrowing optimisation. On the contrary, he uses the specified area for his own purposes. Yes, Euroinvest. allowed through the government, because of Minfin's hasty lending through the bank. The FBI is $260 million under 11 percent of the loan. Foreign consultants involved. One of these, which is paid, is a relative of a high - ranking government official, a very high - ranking government official. The monthly reward for debt settlement is one and a half million dollars for Naftogaz, and that's 23 million dollars for people to put in their pockets. And to the transparency of power, to what we're talking about, we have very transparent power. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! Today, there is a fourth famine with the help of a budget sequencer, made solely by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, who was released with the phrase "for official use", Svetoslav Mihajlovich, with such a graph, the Minister's orders are issued. They're not challenged by the Public Prosecutor's Office, even though they're completely criminal. I asked a question about the attraction to criminal responsibility. Along with budget cuts in the fight against AIDS, with cancer of 55 million, for the fight against tuberculosis -- 55 million -- and Ukraine dies every day -- think about it! Look, please, at the decree of the President of Ukraine about what? On ensuring the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Publication is not subject to publication. The heads of the Constitutional Court, the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u225	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u226	I'm done. If those decrees were to be completed. Everybody's got a high-ranking job salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u227	Turn off the microphone. Please, Odynik, the faction of our Ukraine. It says that publication is not subject to publication. Why do you publicly announce it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u228	It is also written for the use of the ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u229	Well, I'm asking you to let your colleague do the show. For the first time, the man is almost speaking in the rostrum, so let's give him a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u230	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", yes, the hero city of Yelanec. Dear Chairman! Deputies! You know, I signed up for last Friday, and I wanted to make a statement to protect our peasants, our largest part of us, we're exhausted, but yesterday's events in this room, I'm even more, I think, I'd say they're even more worried about me and there's this one question that's happening, and why did it happen yesterday? You know, the thing is, I actually like to ask, and I asked more than 100 people, why it's actually happening. Among them, I asked the deputies of various factions, and each one spoke his own way. One part of the people said that the guilty Supreme Council Head, who had done very well, had done it democratically, but he lacked determination. The second says that the guilty president, who is the guilty president, is because it is very convenient for the President to eat his fellow MPs against one another so that they do not unite and say: “No, enough is enough to rob Ukraine, enough is enough to shame it all over the world. The third part was, of course, supported, unfortunately, this part of the media that's responsible for the opposition because they don't want to, they want to do something and so forth. I think that the opposition is the only thing it wants to do, it doesn't want to be able to privatize the National Bank. In addition, there are other thoughts. And I want to tell you that these thoughts, everyone has their place and maybe they're faithful, but these are all touchy, touchy-feely. The main thing, in my opinion, is that we have very imperfect laws, laws that everyone reads in their own way. See what happens: we have read these laws, which have already destroyed agriculture to the ground, have already left thousands of people without land, without food, without material possessions. And what happened yesterday? Yesterday was a simple situation: each group reads the Rules in its own way, and each one is right. I'm sitting, I'm young, I'm perhaps a parliamentarian, and here I am sitting and listening: and this right, and this right. And I would like to address today all the MPs, the MPs, regardless of factions, the MPs who are sitting in the hall today, the MPs who are listening to me, even the deputies who are coming to the Supreme Council in general just to vote, to ask for a single request: let's treat our work the way all the normal people do, let's work, work on the laws, and create laws that can't be read differently. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u231	I can tell you, when there are differences, you have no doubt, look at the head, it's always the right thing to do and there won't be any problems. Catherine Samuelk, a faction of Communists, has the word. Get ready for Nightshade.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u232	Honorable voters, respectable Hersons! And in my speech, I would like to raise a question, one of the painful issues of society is the consequences of reckless reform in Ukraine's agri-industrial complex. During meetings in Hersonian, and in half of Hersonian areas, I have public reception, and the more important thing is the trickery, the deception of peasants with cunning plots. There are courts everywhere, people are judging with a new mastery that uses their own desire for profit and legal ignorance of people, they're renting 30-40-50 years of land to questionable subjects, and not even Ukrainian citizens because of the right people. In 90 percent of households, people get nothing but unworthy waste and at a cost of money, just like high - quality grain. In some cases, they are deceived into notarial offices, gift - forming, low - costing, and so on. How could it be that the earth is no longer practically in the hands of peasants who give nothing to the people in their possession? All precious things are already laid down, sold, committed. On you, peasant, land, don't get anything, work with nothing, but taxes have to be paid. Our peasants can't even stand on the stock market to get cheap money because you own the land! It's such a big word! People today, the village is practically destroyed, and we have to admit it. People in poverty, with invaluable wealth -- our black lands, our land, are beggars today. I, along with my colleague Lechchenko, and others, initiated parliamentary hearings on this issue. I was impressed when an agrarian faction in the Supreme Council voted against it. I think that's what they're doing to track down traces of their own crimes, their own experiments on our peasants. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am officially addressing you and asking that you give a protocol commission to the committee of profile so that we have the next parliamentary readings out of the ordinary -- serious analysis, serious decisions and serious consequences for those who have led the village to ruin. Should we evaluate where our land went, who collects the barrels, where the property disappeared, where our animal farms disappeared? And finally, give people an answer how to save the village, how to save people. And I also asked that in the session room at these hearings, not the people who are going to lie, they should sit here, but the ones who are in pain in our village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u233	Shufrich Nestor, a replica. Please, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, it was a faction. Well, let's not be tolerant, but I want everyone to be equal. Please. A nightstand to prepare for the performance. Just name your last name, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u234	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. From the rostrum came information about the involvement of the candidate in the National Deputies, a member of the list of SDPU(o) parties in the Supreme Council, Mr. Kiselov, who actually has the 29th number and is a candidate in the National Deputies. Today, he is leading the trade gas of Ukraine. The information that was now distributed in the hall did not say the only thing that the bonds they called cannot be transferred and sold to third parties is actually being used as a loan from NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to commercial banks. The only request is to help NAC under 3 percent of the year. That's all. And we can't leave one of our main sectors today without the support of at least commercial banks if they agree to it. And that can't be forced. And once again, I point out that bonds cannot be used in any commercial equipment, because this is a separate provision for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u235	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine. Get ready for Andrew School. Is there no nightstand? Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u236	Dear voters, radio listeners, distinguished fellow national MPs. In fact, not many of us are left for the most important, perhaps discussing issues that are given to the members of the Supreme Council when it is possible to talk about differences. And, of course, here I would like, first of all, to stop at what's troubling right now, at this time in Ukraine. In view of the fact that the regime in place in Ukraine is unable to provide virtually nothing, even the provision of heat. Today, there was a parliamentary request for inadequacy of the warmth of Ukrainian citizens, but I want to talk about the eerie fact that took place in the territory of my district in Siberia. People were forced to stop the train movement. The Thrussak-Kiyev-Moscow train was stopped for one reason: lack of gas, lack of heat in the apartments. The boilers were not warm because there was no gas. Population accounts have been made, listen up, by 96 percent. Then, for 4 percent of the unpaid, the entire population of the district of Samburi and Sambura were excluded from the heat supply. This is the famous situation that is now taking place in Ukraine. And when we talk about these isolated facts, I don't know what that single fact is called, when a person dies of a chill, when people are organized to lie on the rails to stop the train and get attention. This happened for some technical reason, someone, somewhere, didn't count, they didn't have a qualified calculation and a redistribution. They tell me there are quotas. Which is why there's quotas, there's no quotas, there's no quotas. There are living people, they're not provided with heat. Living people who are most likely suffering from the cold, hunger, and usurpation of power by the existing regime. That this is not the clearest evidence of what was said here yesterday, that some laws were not passed, that some good regulatory legislation had not been adopted to save the population of Ukraine from the state in which it is now. Now we have a simple fact. People are driven to the streets by cold in their own homes. I'd like my speech to be taken as an official request. There's a prosecutor, there's a current prosecutor, there's a former prosecutor. I want to know what responsibility will be borne by those who freeze in the apartments of the people who paid for it, and the residents paid for the services that were to be provided to them. They're freezing, they're going out, they're blocking the movement. Of course, they have not yet frozen to such an extent that they come to Kiev and cover the roads. But before you make them, the warriors will come here and finally be convinced, they'll wipe out the existing regime that makes them die in their own cold dwellings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u237	Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists, is preparing Groszev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u238	Dear colleagues! This statement from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was prompted by parliamentary hearings last week on the status and prospects of Ukrainian culture. It was much but not the essence of a culture that grew out of the collective consciousness of the people, their mentality. And what happens to them, that's practically not what we're talking about. Meanwhile, a study of the Russian demographic disaster carried out by a member of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences, the head of the laboratory of systematic health studies by academician Igor Gundarev, concluded that the epidemic of mortality in post-Soviet Russia was the result of the effect of the so-called x-factor, with which the scientist linked the imposition of historical and cultural aliens to our society and people of spiritual values. According to Igor Gundarev, the western type of thinking that is in the minds of our human being is contrary to his morale-emotional genotype, which is traditional to our people in collective mentality, and the extinction of the nation is a specific reaction to the denial of our spirituality. Given that such demographic processes are taking place in independent States throughout the post-Soviet area, there is reason to claim that these processes are the payment for the transition from Soviet civilization to Euro-Atlantic, from the perspective of a Soviet person who was the master of his own State to the model of an atomized person, which he professes, the so-called human values. This bitter truth about the price we pay for the transformation of our society, for the change in the vector of social, political and socio-economic change in the post-Soviet space. In fact, since 1991, reform in our Ukrainian conditions has been primarily an unauthorized and disguised way of social engineering on the minds of the people. More precisely, manipulation of the minds of the people in order to transform them from a collective people, when one for all and all for one, into a congregation. One person, each one for himself, only one God for all. That is what the secret purpose of the progressive is. the European choice that has been pushed forward. No authority has been given to the Government and the President of Ukraine for the spiritual cultural reforms of the people to change their mentality. Let us bear in mind this as well as the fact that such activities are not only anti-national but also anti-civilizational. That is, it is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u239	Finish up. National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u240	Dear colleagues! The Socialist Party of Ukraine, not once or two in this room and not only the Socialist Party of Ukraine, spoke of the system of power. which is in Ukraine, extremely cynical, extremely deaf to the needs of people. I'll just give you two examples. Last time I spoke from this rostrum, I said that there were problems in Chernobyl that should be kept in mind by the authorities. In honor, one such detail. People who protect this area today don't get paid. And he said that if they failed to do their duty, what could happen there would not appear to be a small part of the world. That power must stop! No! No! A blank fax containing the following reply on this subject: Yes, there is debt; yes, there are problems. Not a single word about what measures the authorities are taking to change. I hope to receive an answer, not a statement of facts, but what the authorities specifically intend to do to prevent a possible disaster. Another question about Chernobyl. I asked the commission to go there. I was sent to say no, it's not necessary, because there's an interdepartmental commission on the President's orders. I've seen the poster that hangs there, the big picture of our President and the tape below, saying, "I'm taking Chernobyl's problems under my patronage." So what kind of patronage is this? It's the power and the President's own compromise, it's going to ruin everything and, of course, it's going to have to change it. A second example of this power. You know, the whole of Ukraine knows how they make fun of the family of our leader Alexander Frost. Thus, there is no warmth for all Ukrainian citizens to hear, and today there is no warmth in his home where he does not live. The question is: To what cynicism, to what barbarism can this power come? Can we go on with this? That is why I would ask, the Attorney General is present here, on this account, because he has received such an announcement, that the Office of the Attorney-General should consider it. There are constitutional rights of citizens to housing, and that is not the case! And I'm asking you to take this case under your control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u241	People's MP Malinowski, get ready for the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u242	Honorable Leadership of the Supreme Council, Honorable Colleagues, Voters! We have a noun today. It's power. I'm talking about the same thing. I would like to point out a few facts of gross violation by the local authorities of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy and the Status of Assistants. Fact number one. The Bilocerk City Council requires me and my assistant, whom I have appointed, the deputy of the city council of wheat, to give the decision of the faction of the Social Party that I am fortifying the White Church as a deputy. There is no such thing in the law, but it is required. Therefore, I believe that the actions of the executive committee of the Biloczerk City Council, on behalf of which Melniczuk spoke as deputy head of city, are contrary to the requirements of existing legislation, such as articles 22, 25 of the Labour Code. History has a sequel. Without a doubt, wheat was brought before a court of law. And you think what's the solution? Rightly, the court did not satisfy our case by referring to article 7, paragraph 1, and article 28 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, where there is no other reference. So all normal norms are cynically violated. It's something else. The fact is that wheat in the 2002 election was the candidate for the post of city head, sharply criticized the inaction of the acting authority, whose representative was once again appointed, I stress, by the head, not by the chosen one. This is a court of law. What Is the Answer to the Court? It's okay, there's no violation of the law. That is why I am asking the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine to give a proper assessment of the actions of the President of the Biloczerk City Court of Sanin, the Head of the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Neciporenko and the judge of the Biloczerk City Court of Makarov; to the Attorney General of Ukraine to assess the facts of the gross violation of my rights as the National Deputy of the Republic of Ukraine and the rights of the MP of the City] for wheat under article 351 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Other facts. The thing is, I'm a listed deputy, and I've got my assistants all over Ukraine. Other facts. Zakarpatsk district, Rahiv district Local authorities, well, they're doing a lot of work to my assistant in the Rakhiv district of Prys. Cherkas region, Smila. Well, there's no way that one of the Odessa railway stations in Smyliy Jermolovich, well, he can accept the fact that Ponomarenko Svetlana, who is a socialist deputy, is not in her jurisdiction. I come from this high rostrum to such woeful leaders, don't be afraid of us socialists, or use our capabilities to solve the problems of your region. Oh, I'm sorry, I assure you, we're going to change the system of power. Those who break the laws today will be accountable to the law, and the one who covers it, and personally the President of Ukraine, will also be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u243	Stepan Cloud, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u244	The cloud, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko, the Party of Fatherland. Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! This rostrum has caused me to worry about what is happening in Ukraine today, and these processes that are taking place are leading to a rapid pace towards the establishment of criminal authoritarian dictatorship in Ukraine. And this is greatly influenced by today’s critical situation in the judicial system. In particular, in such an important constitutional body as the Superior Council of Justice, which under article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine has extraordinary powers to influence the situation of the judiciary and the prosecution system, because it submits to the approval and release of judges, it violates the conduct of judges. It also investigates that there is no compatibility between judges and prosecutors. Today, the situation in the Higher Council of Justice is a grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the law on the Higher Council of Justice and a gross violation is being carried out by the Ukrainian national deputy Sergey Kivalov, who is illegally and illegally in charge of the Supreme Council of Justice. You see, it can have extremely negative consequences that will lead to even more destruction of the system of justice, and it opens the way to an unhindered establishment, as I said, of authoritarian criminal dictatorship. The national deputy of Kiwalov, in grave violation of article 78 of the Constitution, of the law on the Higher Council of Justice, and of the law of Ukraine on the status of the national deputy, holds an illegal position as head of the Supreme Council of Justice. But it wouldn't be so scary if most of the members of the High Council of Justice didn't. That is why I am addressing, including the voters of the distinguished city of Odessa, who were elected by the national deputy, Sergio Kiwalov, unfortunately made a bitter mistake, to initiate, in addition to everything else, a procedure for recalling the national deputy Kiwalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u245	National MP Melniczuk, please. You're calm, dear fellows, it's going to be a big overture. Let's not. People's deputy Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u246	Dear National Deputies! I was approached by a group of the largest companies in Ukraine to produce panch and sock products - the Žitomir factory "Ukraine" with a request to bring to you Ukrainian legislators a huge problem of unfair competition. This is about the need to protect a domestic manufacturer, a slogan that is often proclaimed in this hall, which is unfortunately still extremely relevant. Judge for yourself: in the internal market, and this is not just about Zitomirščina, there are so many contraband junk products with the counterfeiting of the "Ukraine" brand that the Žitomirski buyers have come to question the realness of the known brand. Of the 30 companies that exist in Zitomir, making stockings and socks, only three registered in the State Standard are allowed to manufacture from sanepidemstances have only nine. Hundreds of millions of couples come to Ukraine with counterfeit trademarks, and a fraudulent buyer makes claims to a local manufacturer. Instead, the products of the Zitomir trade mark Light Walk are made from the organic raw material of the highest species. The company fights for quality, releases about a thousand 300 articles of various pantyhose and sock products. The factory produces 12 million pairs of socks, about 36.6 percent of the total production of these products in our country. "Easy walk" is registered in the State Register and protected by the Criminal Code, and so far only on paper, because the company's management has repeatedly been called upon by the Antitrust Committee, the Consumer Protection Authority, but it has been required to specify the full co-ordinates of the fraud and even its address. The property of quality goods from Ukraine, the Ukrainian factory, is extremely high. They're more expensive than they are, and they're not so often bought anymore, which means that because of the deterioration of the competitive environment, the factory was forced to shut down production and, as a result, the Winter Pancheka lost 20 percent of its sales this year, which is a 1 million-dollar underperforming budget. "In 10 years at the state level," says a group letter, "no active light industry development programme has been adopted in the state, which is why all businesses in this sector are experiencing the same challenges. They find it difficult to work with energy suppliers, water suppliers, communications companies whose high tariffs literally destroy individual industries. So the producers of Žitomirščina, the labour teams of the 7 light industry companies, are in favour of creating a level playing field for all subjects of manufacturing. They sent a request to the state authorities to make a nationwide association of employers who produce sock-painting products, asking them to protect them from unfair competition and inefficient imports. I would like to point out that this is not only about the survival of a particular enterprise, but also about the security and prosperity of the region, because Ukraine is one of the biggest taxpayers in the area, the biggest contributor to the budget. What, then, do our parliamentarians, Zitomirsk and panchishki expect from us? Long ago at the time of adoption of a bill that would set the standard for those who pay their taxes honestly and fix all their financial transactions and those who trade in markets often counterfeit, inefficient products without cashiers. Their introduction would put transparency in a situation where every sale will be fixed. So I'm asking you to support and vote and prepare a bill on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u247	Time's up, year. From Mihovich's procedure. From the place, please, Ivan Mihovich. We agreed, the MP Mihovich withdrew himself from his speech during the final discussion of the bill and asked for a minute out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u248	Thank you, fellow believers. Today, we were forced to consider a number of government-provided bills mostly of a fiscal nature. Many attempts have already been made to create negative, unsatisfactory conditions for the operation of subjects in the special economic zone of Carpathians. My colleagues have made changes to the law, but it is not considered for a long time. And today it is said that his hands have not reached him. But the previous laws that are being considered today contain dangerous rules, both for this company and for many others. So I would like to ask for a negative consideration of Bills 2484, 2486, 2077 and others and to support Bill 2310, which will be of great importance to our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, we agreed that we would continue to work. If there is no objection, let us turn to the next question. Dear colleagues, something out of the procedure. How is this national MP? National Deputy Karnauh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u250	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine The presiding officer, considering that the report of the State Property Fund is a fairly large issue, and the hall is not entirely overcrowded, I would suggest that today I complete the consideration of the matter that we started with the information of the Attorney General, then speak to the committee head and thus finish the work today. And the report from the holding fund is scheduled for Tuesday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u251	People's deputy Slabenko. Dear colleagues, we will now continue to work. We agreed, and now new initiatives are emerging. Let's be polite to each other in keeping our agreements. All of it. Please. So you don't want us to listen to him at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u252	Sergey Slabenko, 19th constituency, Volodymiro Wallinsk. I would now like to draw the attention of a respected society to the next thing. I signed up for the performance, and for today I was forty - one in this presentation. This indicates that we missed a speech that week, and most of the people's deputies were unable to speak today and talk about the problems that exist in the districts or in those bills that they would like to support. And what's more, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that at this point, twenty people are already registered for the 20th number. It's going to happen again. So I would like to point out that somehow I would like to give the floor to the issues that exist in the constituencies. It is today that I would urge attention to the city of Novo Volinsk in the constituency and to the critical state of financing the mining city that exists in Western Ukraine. Although it is said that Ukraine is different, believe me, there are problems in both of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u253	Dear colleagues! There is such an offer. All the questions, the problems that violate the national MPs who have spoken, we send appropriate requests to the authorities, including those MPs who have not been able to speak, are 22 national MPs, I ask you to give appropriate letters, we'll prepare a commission, we'll send them. Practice, it's always that we don't have enough hours. Let's make a deal, we'll take more time. I'm announcing the report of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, please. The rules are thus proposed. The committee offered 10 minutes for the report, if there are 5, 10 answers to the questions, a committee report, five minutes' reports, five minutes' answers, five minutes' answers, a report, and an answer to a question from the Special Monitoring Commission, five minutes' worth of questions, 20 minutes' worth of discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u254	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u255	We have already discussed the proposal, and we have agreed that after a variety of issues have been discussed. Please. Dear colleagues! Then another procedure must be voted on. We agree that 60 minutes is for consideration. Please, this is a profile committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u256	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'll shorten my speech to the minimum. You've all been given a report by the Ukrainian State Property Fund, and there's quite a lot of material here, with tables, digital material. You could or you could still get to know him. I will briefly address the problems that have arisen in the implementation of the State Privatization Programme last year and the main results. As a result of the foundation’s work in 2001 in Ukraine, it changed the form of property of 1,658 public property and 4,373 municipal property. The sale of property and other revenues directly linked to the privatization process in 2001 received 2 billion 227 million dollars, representing 37 percent of the budget’s planned task. What I'm saying is that despite such a small percentage of the implementation of the State Plan, this is the most coming in absolute terms throughout the years of privatization. The rent of government property in 2001 received 80 million dollars at the planned annual cost of 52 million dollars. The Kharkiv Regional Disaster Management Fund lists 5.5 million dollars. It was listed in 2001 for the State dividend budget of 74.5 million dollars at the planned annual rate of 200 million. In order to implement the dividend plan, the Cabinet of Ministers has decided to release the dividends of 2 equity companies: the Shrine for 148 million dollars and the VAT for Titan for 19 million dollars. On January 1, 2002, there were 2,392 shares held by the State. They account for less than 50 percent of the government's share of less than 1.5 thousand with a government share of more than 50 percent of 377 shareholders. To the statutory funds of the holding companies and state shareholders, 320 stocks of open stock companies have been transferred. The total amount envisaged by the investment-sales contracts between 95 and 2001 is 7 billion dollars, which exceeds the budget's coming from privatization for the same period. The total investment already made by buyers is 3.3 billion dollars, including the total investment made during 2001 of 484 million dollars and 47.8 million dollars. During 2001, the fund carried out 6,000 verifications of the performance of the terms of the sales contracts, a drink of the weight of the contracts, with 17 per cent of the infringements established during 2001, the lowest since the implementation of the control of sales contracts. As a result of fines and pennies, four million 425 million and a half thousand dollars were collected from poor buyers. During 2001, the main proceeds of privatization were the sale of 6 oblenergo, Zaporezium Aluminum, the Hartzi Pipe Plant, the VAT "Autocraz", the Uzhgorodski "Turbogaz", the Lviv Bus Plant, and others. The main causes and problems encountered in the implementation of the State Privatisation Programme in 2001 were, firstly, the inadequate financial and economic situation of privatization objects, the burden of many of them with debt obligations, the application of bankruptcy and sanitation procedures, which significantly reduced the investment attractiveness of the objects. Among the most common methods of braking and obstructing the privatization of individual attractive objects is the way to bring lawsuits. According to a court decision last year, the results of sales of items totalled 260 million dollars. Third. The use of illegal shadow privatization methods is increasing, including high-end government property accounts with creditors. Unwarrantedly large remains the number of public - held stocks to date. The main problems that have arisen in the implementation of the State's privatization programme, the State Property Fund has tried to implement the new privatization programme for the next six years, which is now being submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers and will be considered shortly in the Supreme Council. At the same time, we have filed a law in the Cabinet of Ministers on the reprivatization of property, which has been followed by privatisation procedures, which provides for new mechanisms for the return of property to government property in cases where enterprises are not operating and are causing damage to local budgets and the state budget. This mechanism allows us to solve the problems of enterprises that have gone through certification or market options. I'm short.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. On the board, please. There we go, you've been out for six minutes, 14 minutes we'll be asking questions and answering questions. National MP Slabenko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u258	National Deputy Slabenko Sergei, electoral district number 19, Volodymyr-Wolinski. I'd still like to understand. Today, we are considering a question related to the implementation of the program by the Maintenance Fund. In your opinion, what is the biggest obstacle to holding the Fund today in carrying out its tasks?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u259	The biggest obstacle is that, unfortunately, we don't have as many liquid enterprises as we think we do with potential buyers. These are business units that today show net profits and have the interest of potential buyers. So for today, the State Property Fund has been working with so-called insolvents for the second year, we're putting out five, ten times the same packages, at the same time, on state enterprises and enterprises that aren't being privatized, there are processes, let's say, illegal alienation of state property, which reduces their further value when they're sold. It's these problems that I've been trying to briefly express in my report, and we're going to solve through a new privatization programme. It's the biggest painful problem today that we're getting a bunch of stocks and possessions that nobody's interested in anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u260	Vitaly Shibko. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u261	Vitaly Šibko, Socialist Party of Ukraine Alexander Mikolaiovich, I have this question: Is there a State Property Fund register, how many state-owned enterprises have been transferred to the administration of all commercial structures, and is there any analysis of how their obligations are being fulfilled regarding, well, how are these enterprises being rehabilitated, or are taxes being paid and so forth?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u262	Of course, there is such a register. But in contrast with the opinion of many, including national deputies, we have only six. Six businesses are now being transferred to commercial management. All of these businesses were transferred to the management of another corporate management agency headed by Taranov, and most of these companies have already been able to break contracts, but there are legal problems that I'm not going to stop. Why? We can do the rest. In the near future, it's the President's order, and we'll be filing documents in the Cabinet of Ministers to break all the contracts that exist today. But I want to tell you again: there are only six of these businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u263	Victor Petrov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u264	Thank you. Alexander Nikolaevich, in Vinice City, a wine cellar factory is destroyed with the help of a new owner after the acquisition of the stock control package. The year passed as they became masters of this package, every quarter came your commission and confirmed that the terms of the contract were being fulfilled. Although the terms of the contract are not fulfilled. After interfering with some, people have now begun to receive wages, and practically, the factory has not been working since June. Two weeks ago, I was sent under the signature of Vladimir Mikhailovich, and a request from me was sent to you. So far, I haven't received an answer from you, although there is a very difficult situation at the factory. I received a reply from the Public Prosecutor's Office, from other organizations that dealt with the problem. Why do you respond so much to the problems that exist with the enterprise and the request of the people's MP?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u265	I've already signed the answers to this question. I've been doing this myself. We'll keep doing it. I mean, at the moment of selling this, the packages, the company was in such a financial debt state that the new owner, by fulfilling those terms of the contract, couldn't solve all the problems right away. We're taking personal control of this company, and together with the ministries, we're going to solve the problem. But if there's any breach in the sales contract, we'll tear it apart. But it's just that the situation there is really, really complicated, and we're all the answers and questions, I'm personally ready to meet you, and we're going to work together to solve the problem of this company. I agree with you. That's a big problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u266	George Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u267	George Manchulenko, Chernovets region, 203 district, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter, you remember how many copies were broken in Parliament of the previous summons when a law was developed and adopted on the specifics of the privatization of the Shrineman and it was said that this law would allow for the implementation of part of the shares and that it would be a great deal of revenue to the budget and so on. The law works, with the Shrimper, preparing for privatization, in fact, with privatization, there's a situation that's not quite clear. I would like to take a close look at this particular problem. Probably more likely to Vladimir Mikhailovich’s question is about the law on the holding fund. It is said that there are many problems in the work of the foundation, and so on, not transparent processes. So in order to bring it all together and capture all of these questions that are always coming up, I think we should still go back and take this law on the holding fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u268	So, it's "The Shrimp" situation. Privatization of this object has a specific character because it has a separate law. This law provides for a commission that is created by the Cabinet of Ministers, which deals with all issues concerning the privatisation procedure for the "Silverman". It is headed by Rogový Vasil Vasilovich, who was Vice Prime Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers. All decisions are taken by the committee. The fund is the executive structure that executes them. In preparation for the Reaper's sale, my personal opinion is that we've lost our time. You could've sold it to Squirrel in the past year or the past year. Now, indeed, the conjuncture, both political and external, is not good enough for the sale of this object. And the commission's decision was to move it and sell it to the government. But I think it's one of those things that can give a pretty solid budget. And certainly, the Supreme Council and the leadership of the state must make a political decision to sell it. Because as long as it shows net profits, but with the experience of other businesses, I have no confidence that it will continue to happen. Regarding the State Property Fund Act. Several times the Supreme Council passed this law, the veto was imposed. Now in the Supreme Council's ruling on my report there is a mandate to prepare a new text of the law, we'll, I think, do it in strict terms, submit it again to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u269	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u270	Fucking Communist faction. ..................................... And now I'm asking you, as of November, after the illegal alienation of the Cherka Regional Property Fund from Crystal-S. And only the request came to you -- literally two weeks later, I get the answer from you that you admit that the decision. The court, indeed, ruled by the Cerka Regional Property Fund, wrongly overturned the decision. This decision is followed by people with their wages, debts, and so forth. You're giving me a receipt again. Please, this isn't the first time. You, as head of the State Property Fund, should not write notes, but send them there. On the spot, to meet with the deputy, to see, to figure out and make a judgmental decision, not to listen to what is written down from the regional wealth fund. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u271	I'm taking your point, I'm going to take this enterprise into personal control, because maybe I haven't been informed of completely objective information. I'm ready to meet you, and this is a question to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u272	Mikola Rudkovski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u273	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you a few questions. First. What the State Property Fund did when there was a massive privatization of high-end enterprises in the Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk region through bankruptcy. We can see that there are hundreds of millions of profits made by the State Treasury when these objects were alienated from the State. Several power stations were privatized there, which could not be privatized at all. Why the State Property Fund sat there and kept silent, seeing that hundreds of millions of dollars were privatized to government property in the course of legislation. And don't you think it's necessary to return it to state property? In Chernigov, this was done in this way, and at no cost was sold the hemvolocene, and the Chernigiv Radio Plant is now being sold, other businesses. Is it not appropriate to draw conclusions and not rush to privatize, to sell everything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u274	Thank you for asking. I don't agree with you that the State Property Fund was silent. The fact is that the bankruptcy procedure is in no way related to the fund and does not require any reconciliation, even from the notice of such actions. Last year, I personally raised a question with the President, and there was the President's initiative to impose a moratorium on all of these exclusions. For the first time, we raised the level of debate on this issue in the past Parliament. And we've been initiating legislative changes all the time, and we're at the Supreme Council. There are now attempts to stop this moratorium so that the same events continue. We are firmly opposed to ending the moratorium until the bankruptcy procedure has been changed. In our report, both in the report and in the new privatization program, we are again focusing on these problems. But I want to tell you again. Today, under current legislation, no bankruptcy activity in an enterprise provides for any reports agreed upon with the State Property Fund in Ukraine. Unfortunately, this is true, and responsibility rests with the foundation because we seem to be responsible for all the state property in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u275	National MP Simonov. I'm just asking for a very brief, distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u276	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I have already written several letters to Alexander Mikhailovich about the Ternopil Combin Factory. You remember this epepoch. There is an illegal transfer to a structure created under the auspices of the Cabinet of Ministers, 24 percent of the shares, illegally. If they were to help the combine factory, fine, God is with him, as they say. But this structure was created by the Cabinet of Ministers, and it took over, and I'm basically disrupting the combine plant. In Soviet time, I'll tell you what, 450 cars were coming down from the conveyors, now only 50 a year. What do you have to do to redistribute, take back this stock structure, put it back on the free field of redistribution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u277	I fully agree with this problem, and when I report to the Economic Policy Committee and the committee's draft decision, it's that all our holding companies are created by government decisions, we need to immediately deploy packages to either businesses or to sell them. This business is transferred to a holding company that does not do anything for the companies that took it, but only creates problems for them. I totally agree with you, but it takes either the Supreme Council's decision, or the Cabinet of Ministers. By the way, the President has repeatedly given such orders to eliminate these holding companies, including this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u278	National Deputy Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u279	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Gregory Kaletnik, European Choice Group, 15 constituency. Vinegar. I sent you a letter from Alexander Mikolaiovich, but today I cannot help but take advantage of the opportunity to communicate with you in person and to draw your attention to such a problem. The State Property Fund, along with its former management of the Winnitzin observatories, offered the opportunity to privatize the structure of the Gniewny Sugar Plant. It's one of three factories that not only has new equipment, it's also technologically capable of processing raw sugar. And so today, this factory is cut out, cut out, stretched out, and new owners are selling it as a scrap metal, with the opportunity to make money on it. I'd like to ask you to use your legal rights to end a terrible situation where people are deprived of jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u280	Thank you for asking. I wrote this object down. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u281	National MP Borschevski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u282	Borstevsky, Communist Party of Ukraine, Dnepropetrovsk oblast. I am interested in the state of affairs on a particular site. The Petrovsky Metalworks Plant. There was a very difficult situation there today. Workers are ready for strikes and other actions. As you are now assessing the situation in this combination, the fact is that the package belongs to the control State. Petrovsky's plant.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u283	I'm familiar with the situation in this factory. This package has been in commercial management for a long time. We've broken the deal by decision of the government, and now we're making an order. A special group has been created. My first deputy was on the move, and we will continue to deal with the situation. But this object, this enterprise, has really been in such a state of financial difficulty that it cannot be resolved so quickly. This facility is under the control of my personal and management of the Cabinet of Ministers. I think we'll settle the matter in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u284	Karnauh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u285	Your Honor, I have two questions for you. Have you passed on the shares of Naftogaz Ukraine to the consortium? And the next. Talks follow. The stakes in the WAT "Krukrnafta" are being prepared for sale between "Privacybank" and "Ukrsibbbank". Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u286	A package of shares is not included in any consortium at all. There are no decisions, no ideas. That's the first one. And if you talk about NAC Naftogaz, there's actually lots of shares there, and it's been done a long time. And according to Skrnaft, there's really an offer for the sale of a packet that now belongs to NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, Ukranafti, it's there, this project, on display, and it's going to be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers. But there were no decisions, no discussions on that subject. I think Boyko gave us premature information on this subject. I'm not sure that this decision will ever be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u287	Thank you. Sit down, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please, from the Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property, and Investments, Mr. Anatoliyovich Demjokhin. I would ask Valentina Petrovna to make a deal with the committee and determine. But you went together, saying that everything was arranged for you there, only to listen. Wasn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u288	Respected leaders, respected people's deputies, the report of the State Property Fund on the implementation of the privatization programme in 2001, which is under consideration today, demonstrates an increased level of mutual responsibility between Parliament and the executive branch. Although two years had not been reported. The organization of consideration of this issue required the insistence of both the Committee and the Special Monitoring Commission on Privatization. In five minutes, I will give a summary of the draft order proposed by the Committee. In order to complete the picture, it should be noted that a further draft decision of the People's Deputies of Semenyuk, Kirichenko, Savitsky and others had been issued on the Statehood Fund's report. The draft was also considered by the Committee, where its introduction was supported. It should be noted. That the two projects available are largely not contradictory. A significant difference in evaluation is that the Committee considers it possible to approve the Fund's report, but that work is insufficient. A group of people's deputies, the Special Commission proposes that the report be taken into account and that work be considered as insufficient. It is important to note that, in carrying out the public privatization tasks in 2001, the Fund did not ensure full income to the State budget from the privatization of property. The State Budget Act provided for privatisation revenues of 5.7 billion people. Grieves and 200 million It's a stock dividend. According to the reported figures, income was in fact 2.2 billion, i.e. 37.4 per cent of the plan. The low level of governance of State corporate rights has prevented the State from carrying out the task of dividends. The report does not provide an analysis of the effectiveness of privatized enterprises in terms of income, dividends, budget payments. It appears that the Fund does not have sufficient ownership of the performance of the terms of the sales contracts. For example, in 2001, there was a clear trend towards a significant non-compliance, such as investment, with only 65 per cent of implementation. The measures taken in the course of treaty violations were insufficient. The activities of the household management fund, as in previous years, were largely limited to rental management. A fund of over 1,800 shadow leases, not agreed with privatization authorities, was found to be around 300 illegal prisoners. However, the impact on offenders has not been assessed. As a positive conclusion, it is important to note that the management of the fund, and this should be from the report, and on the committee, we have discussed, understands that and how to change the activities of the fund, on which to focus our efforts. Under the guidance of the Fund, a six-year State privatization programme has been developed and a more cautious and sectoral reform-coordinated process of privatization of the most important economic complexes has been introduced. These were the main circumstances in the decision to approve the Fund's report on the Committee. What should be the focus of the effort? For the purposes of pre-privatization training to increase the market value of the enterprise, to achieve the maximum depth of sale of facilities in privatization to accelerate the sale of remaining shares by shareholders, to improve the management of State corporate rights, to improve the contractual work, to counter the application of disqualification schemes outside the privatization law, to prevent the reduction of the public share of property in the statutory funds of shareholders by artificially increasing its statutory funds. The Cabinet of Ministers is invited to submit projects on the State Property Fund, draft laws and the State privatization programme within one month. It is also suggested that the Government consider the operation of holding companies whose activities are ineffective. The above is the basis for the draft decree on the report of the State Property Fund. The Committee requests that it be supported by a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u289	The question to the reporter is, are there any respectable colleagues? None. Please, thank you. And Rodion's are questions, dear colleagues. Here's a question. National MP Mikhailo Kuzmich Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u290	Did the system fail?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u291	That's what I hear. You tell me and the reporter will answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u292	That's my question. Commie faction, Rodionov. I have a question for you, well, first of all, because you're a specialist. What part of property in Ukraine has already been privatized completely and definitively and irreversibly? That's the first one. And the second. Your view, well, that privatization does not give rise to the economy of Ukraine is clear now. Is that what you think it is necessary to do in terms of privatization or non-privatization to make the economy grow in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u293	Well, let's start with what part of the final, irreversibly. I don't think there's gonna be a person in this country who can answer that question on the basis of irreversibility. Why? Because, well, we're in the process of, first of all, completing the roster work, yes. So, anyway, we do have the data bank final. For example, we have classified information for the Ministry of Defence. And there are enterprises that we've been looking at recently for privatization. And on the basis of finality and irreversibility, the issue is still complicated by the fact that I think the law on reprivatization will be passed. And that law will still regulate those interest rates. Now, if you'll excuse me. Well, you know, the first one is hindering a very low investment level in the country. Climate. It's not climate, it's simply no comparison. You understand that instead of being loving to an investor, we don't twist his hands, so, starting with the courts, all the powerful, so to speak, our bodies are all involved in the privatization process. And of course, if we haven't held a meeting in Skrnafta for almost three years, and not because Aleksandr Nikolaevich doesn't want to, he wants to, but because the Cabinet of Ministers is interfering with this process. This is the only business, one of the first to release American depository receipts to the stock market. And you understand what assets an enterprise may have, what growth may be after the meetings are not held, no dividends are paid to shareholders. Thus, in order for privatization processes to go and have a serious impact on the income of our budget, the first must be removed from the participation of all the forces in the privatization process. There are courts. A law on the property fund should be adopted, where rights and obligations would be clearly stated. And we must determine when we are listening to the Fund's report, on what issues. And, you know, if, for example, the Moser oil refinery today is on sale in Belarus for 700 million dollars, yes, and we all probably didn't sell for that. Here's the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u294	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Have a seat, please. The co-report invites the head of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the privatization of Valentin Petrovna Seminyuk. Please, Valentina Petrovna. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u295	Dear colleagues, the number of privatized enterprises is increasing, and the cost of their core assets is shrinking. The situation is not better with the employment of the workers. If 3.6 million employees were employed in privatized enterprises in 1999, by the end of last year they had dropped by 1 million. In 2001, the decrease is 12.7 percent, and in 2001 it is already 10 percent. The conclusions on the effects of privatization are based on a group of macroeconomic analyses by the Harvard Institute for International Development, which is not provided for by valid legislation. The production of high technology in privatized enterprises is not available from the report. In doing so, chapter nineteen explicitly states that the State Property Fund is governed by the German Government’s privatization guidelines in Ukraine and the recommendations of the advisory group on privatization set up at the initiative of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. In particular, on the issue of the privatisation of the energy industry in the identified recommendations, it is proposed to increase for consumers the price for electricity transmission within the cloud after privatization from 0.4 US cents to 2.5 cents per kilowatt of electricity. That is, five times, thus providing income to foreign owners. The commission also found that the fund had accepted the cable terms set out in a contract with foreign advisors that had been provided with services from the privatization of six energy - generated companies. It provides for a fee of 4.2 percent for the sale of each object for what is called successful privatization. But what a success it is to be talked about when Hersonoblnergo’s stock advisor sold 112 million dollars at the original 111.5 million dollars — that is, only 500,000 — was overstated and paid to counsellor 4 million 633 thousand dollars. You can see a similar situation in the comparative tables that we gave you before. Besides, I want to say. The principle of privatization of enterprises by strategic investors does not ultimately solve the problem of non-participation in the privatization processes of offshore companies. And the cases got worse, and they're specific to the definition of the owner and the buyer. I think these conflicts are. So 36 percent of the state stock of the North Mining Coal was sold to a Ukrainian metallurgical company for nothing. Ukrisimbank and a listed company, 90 percent of whose shares belong to the same bank, were admitted to the competition. Unacceptable to participate in the competition, the company filed a lawsuit with the court of commerce, which gave rise to the approval of suspending the competition. The Court of Appeal quickly annulled it, allowing it to sell a package of shares before considering the substance of the matter. However, there was no time to wait. The foundation worked very quickly. One day he got a court order, held a competition, and made a sale deal. I think at the next meeting of the commission we're going to calculate the real damage, especially since we're working with the Attorney General's Office in this regard. However, for reasons of failure to implement the State Privatization Programme, there is also the fact that the State Property Fund in Ukraine has been alienated not only by the State Property Fund but also by three other authorities: the Ministry of Defence through Ukrespecexport and its subsidiaries, as well as by the structural units of the Ministry of State Tax Administration, the Ministry of Justice through Taxation, the Ministry of Judicial Decisions through the Ukrespecst created by it, and by the holding companies that have unlawfully held state shares in statutory funds. Thus, from the privatization of the Ministry of Defence enterprises, the State Budget was projected to reach 15 million in 2001, 30 million in 2002. But I didn't get a penny. The list of military facilities proposed for implementation, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of 26.08.2001, includes unfinished construction, which violates the Law on Privatization of Unfinished Construction. In fact, this function should be performed by the State Property Fund. During the hearing of the Fund’s report, representatives of the State Tax Administration and Easter were heard. As the DPA's tax return showed in 2000, property was realized, I repeat, as respectable comrades, to pay attention to 1.8 billion dollars. In 2001 it was 1.3 billion. At the same time, when asked by the representatives of our commission, what was the residual value of the real estate, the DPA could never answer what its real value was. At the meeting of the commission, the representative of Minsk could not at all reveal the scope of the structure. Yes, in the Donetsk region, VAT’s commercial properties were illegally alienated from a soda factory worth 10 million dollars, which was under arrest by a court of law. Just mention the forced alienation of five Donbasenergo thermal power plants at the sum of 207 million bracelets at the remaining balance point. Notice, 1 billion 71 million dollars! Moreover, it is also possible to note the "nou hau" privatization of state property in the so-called control packages of strategic companies by holding companies established in accordance with the President's decree. Such an alienation mechanism was used by cartilages in fact by Poltava, Orgeniekieden, and marganic mining gears were only used for 57.1 million bracelets. But I'd like to draw attention to the fact that the budget for this alienation has not come. A similar situation with Nakom Naftogaz in Ukraine, where Ukrgasservis Chevelinski, Ukrgazvozvodek, was estranged. The holding company’s automated relays, without agreement with the State Property Fund, were alienated from the shares of all the subsidiaries that were and were part of the holding company. The Watt Stock Control Package of the Berszak Electrotechnical Factory, which was sold to natural persons in general. In the absence of time, I will not stop the entire list of illegally privatized property and damage to the state, but I cannot help but mention one of the most valuable. As a result, three strategic enterprises were to be privatized free of charge. This is the one that some in this room have already heard, and some may be directly involved. And here's the reason for that. The stockholder company Ukrnaftoftproduct was transferred to the statutory fund, including the stock control package of strategic ventures of VAT Eximnaft Product, Crimnaft Product, Kyivmovestnaftof Product, transferred the shares of the listed companies as collateral for 3 million dollars. Look, $3 million, I'm sorry! Take conditions that are notoriously inconvenient and without any possibility, and certainly intend to bring them back. It is clear that the loan is not returned, and the control package of 3 companies that are strategically important to the economy and security of the state has in general been alienated. As stated in the report of the commission, which was created by Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, I quote: "In the midst of the alienated products of VAT companies, "Eximnaftoftproduct" is valued -- pay attention! - 840,000 bracelets, which is a unique trans-shipment terminal with a productive capacity of 21.5 million tons of oil and petroleum products per year. The estimated cost of similar enterprises abroad is at least $1 billion" is the end of the quote. It is quite logical that the question arises if the state is suffering billions of damages, who is to blame for these services. Who, then, will appreciate the actions of these ministerial servants, or will they be held accountable? With this question we asked the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, but our specific request and the specific question the Attorney General answered, by the way, after a second request. Do the actions of officials contain the signs of crime provided for in article 364, 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code? The deputy of Karniakov's Attorney General's Office has sent this, and I quote the answer that is being sent to the commission. "There is no basis for resolving the criminal liability of officials." That's how we protect our national interests. A stolen bag of grain is considered a criminal responsibility, and the nation’s billions of damages are not. Perhaps this can be explained in a word: corruption. As an example of corruption’s intentions, and more loyally, a way of distorting the law by means of an instructional character or by means of legal acts should be cited in a case that was actually carried out by our commission. In May of this year, the State Property Fund issued an instructional letter on the creation of subsidiaries, effectively repealing article 140 of the State Privatization Program. I mean, I allowed decisions to be made to create subsidiaries, and as a result, equity assets that were privatized had been reduced, and the value of government stock packages had not been underestimated. Yet, even at the request of our commission, once again, this instruction was cancelled. I say this in order not to forget, parliamentarians, about our control not only of law enforcement, but also of the adoption of regulations or letters issued by both the State Property Fund and members of the executive branch. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm done. I will say that, under such conditions, neither the state privatization programme nor the state budget can be met and pensions, salaries and the return of citizens' savings are impossible. In Ukraine, there is a free distribution of property between a group of close - ups, and the next robbery and redistribution are imminent. And the first signal's already gone. At the time of the privatisation of the Crooksnafts. And to the end. To date, the privatization of state property in Ukraine is characterized by such problems. First. There is no law on the State Property Fund, and this is where my colleague talked about it. There is no law on the administration of public and municipal property, the law on reprivatization. There's criminalization through the gaps in legislation. The other one. with privatization of objects of strategic importance for the economy and security of the State. And finally, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We did a detailed analysis of the State Property Fund report at the meeting of the commission, and we distributed it in this session room. I think it would be interesting for the deputies to look at the material that was distributed by the special review committee. I realize that the State Property Fund has not been reported in a long time, and the special control commission is even more. I think we're going to report quarterly, and more importantly, we're going to propose changes to the law. I want to say that today the privatization that goes through other ministries and departments needs to be regulated by legislation and put within the framework of legislation that should not be as it should be today in our Ukraine. I'll point out that the commission worked on a lot of other materials, and we'll hand it out. The commission found that work was insufficient, even though I offered to find it unsatisfactory. But I believe that an assessment of privatization issues will be given directly to our electorate, to our people who see what is the result of privatization and the result of reforms. Without changing the system of power, of course, we cannot talk today about the fact that the law on the State Property Fund should be legally defined, to know its values, not as we see in Ukraine today, that it is a permanent intervention or the State Property Fund, or the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u296	Will there be questions for the reporter? Please sign up. Lighten up. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please. Next Radionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u297	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. I'd like to ask you this: do you know that it was the State Property Fund, along with the Attorney-General's Office, that the Attorney-General then asked the question of the return of "Ukranaftoft", "Simnaftoftou", "Krimnaftoftou" and only because of the criminal decision of the Supreme Economic Court, which was made before May 9, May 7, as if the circumstances had been discovered. I'm saying it's a disgraceful decision. And don't you think about going back to that question and initiating a return to that question and writing a separate paragraph to the decision that we're about to make, because this is a billion-dollar question, you know, actually about a billion people's deputies behind it? Did you know that this is a group of Andrew Leonidovich, the national deputy?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u298	Yuri Anatolyovich, the commission knew about this. And you heard from my report that we were also addressing the Attorney General's Office and you heard the answer we made. I've literally met with the Attorney General's Office this Sunday, with the Attorney General, and I've made a similar request, and I think we're going to look at this issue together at the board meeting. But once again I want to say that without the adoption of the law on reprivatisation in Ukraine there is no order. We still have to consider that there should be a legal document to handle this. make a return through legal procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u299	Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u300	Commie faction, Rodionov. Valentina Petrovna, I have this question: privatized enterprises are former Soviet enterprises that have thousands of people working on, now a lot of people are always asking, they've been caught, there's some small part of them, they're asking, what's it doing, what's its effectiveness in terms of what's happened? [[Thousands!]] And in the report, we're used to the old reports. There's an analysis of what was, what was, what was the profit, what was the loss, what was built. There's nothing to know today. Is there any way to clarify this question? What can people say? Indeed, there were 10,000 cases and 500 people working in this privatized enterprise. And where is this efficiency, what is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u301	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the second one. When we considered issues on the State Property Fund report, we agreed and recorded in the commission's decision and in the decision we made to structure the State Property Fund's report so that we could pray for the effectiveness of privatization. I think the State Property Fund is going to do that, and what's more, the decision also provides that the State Property Fund will now register state property. If we adopt a law on municipal property, we'll pass the law on. then there will be a duly approved register of utility property. The register of treasury assets is maintained at the State Property Fund. As for efficiency, I think the citizens themselves see the privatization that is today. Basically, when we even considered these issues at a board meeting, what we see is that cost-effective businesses that worked and were competitors in the external market, they were basically driven to privatize through the right people in order to destroy our competitor. I can call the Balakli cement plant, which was privatized with the help of Mr. Tihypak, today, in fact, destroyed and our entire field of cement production has actually been destroyed. This is also noted by the relevant services, which in fact was for the destruction of a competitor in the external market. The second way to privatize is to redistribute between the clans, which is often done here in the hall. The fourth way is really to look for an efficient enterprise. And there are cases where an enterprise is privatized, it works, it keeps a working group, it's maintained accordingly, and the legislation on pay, the standards of work, and so on, and it doesn't have to be rejected. So it is necessary to draw conclusions on each object separately. I'm not talking about the negatives that are not just about privatization, but about the alienation of property today, especially the military-industrial complex, because of the distorted or issued Cabinet Order 1919, which is included in privatization, not in privatization, but in alienation, of entire property complexes, and this is actually a violation of the Privatization Act. So they sell it for nothing, and no one knows what it's worth. I don't speak anymore, and I've called the figures, according to the Tax Administration, when privatization takes place, and this is especially true of socio-cultural objects that have been handed over to the administration or to use, and managers forget that using it is not their right to use it. And now the State Property Fund is going to be doing inventory, and we said at the board meeting, "Inventory of those socio-cultural objects that have been transferred to property that can't be privatized, it needs to be passed on to the territorial communities." I think that's what we're going to do. Gennady Andryovich, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u302	Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u303	I'd like to ask you again, Hennady Andriyovich. At the Special Monitoring Commission meeting, then we'll figure out why the Rules and the score were so, we predicted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u304	Please tell me, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u305	One second. We predicted a report, information from the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Justice. I'll ask. There is a representative of the Tax Administration, let him also answer questions, perhaps a few minutes of reports of alienation, and so is Easter. This is the commission's decision, and I have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u306	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. The commission made its proposals, we'll move. Valentino Petrovno, first of all, should refrain from making the assessments that you are now giving to officials regarding their involvement in some illegal act. Please, and with respect to the same deputies who are not in the hall. You don't have to do that. Let's move on to the discussion. Calm down, please. That's all. Nothing, nothing, just calm down if we're all responsible people here. Valentina Petrovni Seminyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u307	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. The control committee authorized me to speak. And what I said about the cement industry was officially announced at a special committee meeting. And that's what the representatives know, regardless of political views, and that's what all the members of the appropriate committee know. If you need the right material, I can present what we have on the committee. Besides, we need to know our heroes. And fear nothing. That is why there is still a time limit in the speech of the chairman of the special commission. Let's not silence him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u308	Okay. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is Hinsburg Olzi Petrovney, the next Carmazin. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u309	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine," the Party "Vitiate Defenders", "Solidarity." Ladies and gentlemen, let's ask ourselves, could the Maintenance Fund be in a position in which it works, and I remind you that there is an auction today for its position. Today, the result is a competition between the two factions of the SDPI(o) and the initiatives about who this fund will belong to and control over it. Could the fund normally exercise its authority under these conditions? Obviously, it was difficult for him to do that, but I would call the program an objective one, but I would call it a privatization program not as a privatization program, but as a real thing, you could call it a progressive property transfer program of the state of Ukraine of the Russian Federation. That is what we see today when we look at the list of objects purchased. In terms of methods of privatization, legality and illegality. In fact, what's going on, including after we lost our property in the gas transport consortium, where the question of $30 billion is, the estimate is this, this is the dissolution of the state, and we don't have to let that happen. You remember that the people’s deputies who took part in the discussion of this issue were handed out documents with the heading “Mystery. ” The Russian Federation is in charge of our property, and you, the deputies who have been authorized by the people of Ukraine, are given a document that you have returned immediately. And then there's nothing that's actually going on. This is how we destroy our people and the fourth famine. I'm addressing officials, the Privatization Control Commission, I'm addressing the Attorney General. Stop what is happening today with privatization through the courts. Here's a letter from the Centralite factory. These are the people, their signatures, Holy Michaelovich, these people who turn and say, "2.5 million is in debt, only 69.9 ownership of the state's decision-making, the judge is selling.".. That's how it's handed out, other property. Black Sea Sailing. We've spent how many years of our lives. Where did the property go? How did you report for him? No one's reporting. They've created offshore companies that seem to belong to the state. Never an offshore company belongs to a state! So, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's important to write in a regulation that's not insufficient, not unsatisfactory, but a failed job is the first. The second thing is, there are alternative ways of privatizing, and they are now ruling, and not actually the State Property Fund is running the privatization process today, but is run by the Bank's Street. Let's recognize it really as it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u310	National MP Slabenko, non-factional. Get ready, Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u311	National MP Slabenko, non-factional. I thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for your attention, but I would like to point out once again that I'm in the faction of "Our Ukraine" where I've been sitting, and the second circumstance that ideologies don't change. And I'd like to start by saying, let's now get back to the question of the terms of privatization in 2001. First. Which there's an investment. In this state. Or even an investor who could put money here could make money in this country if he came here. If he does not come, they will come accordingly. the answer to the question, and where does the schemes come from, because under such conditions only legal persons or natural persons can work in this State, who can manage valid legislation in such a way that this privatization takes place right below them. Accordingly, I would like to draw attention to the question that I have just highlighted. And the Holding Foundation found that he had a large set of questions. This is the question of the methods of various privatizations by which property is derived and of the inequities that remain in our state today. I'd like to talk about a little one right now. an enterprise. It's kind of small, but it's strategic for the city of Novovolinsk. The Open Shareholder Society is now owned by the state. More than 50 percent of the stock is not sold. There is an extremely large set of issues with the property on his balance sheet, which is both unfinished construction and part of the social sphere. So for 10 years, legislation on privatization processes was being developed, and conditions were being created that such enterprises today cannot find their new and effective owner. And so I'd like to stress again, we can argue a lot today about how much it's the holdmain Foundation that is to blame without assessing how much the system of government of the whole state has motivated such privatization processes. So I think that under these conditions, the holding fund did what it could do. And putting everything on one person's shoulders is wrong, and accordingly I fully agree with the conclusions made by the relevant committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u312	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please. Get ready, Petrova, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u313	Dear colleagues, the state of affairs that we're considering today, I'm going to try to show you on just one example, but it's very typical. As you know, in 1996, a state-owned shareholding company called the Bread of Ukraine was created in 1996 under a statute approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in the same year at number 1375, and I am doing so to be heard by our Attorney-General, because he will have a formal address to this event, as well as, since 2001, at number 240, it is part of the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine. According to paragraph 31 of the statute of property that is not subject to privatization and transferred to the statutory fund of the company is state property and is not subject to alienation. This document falls under the so - called specific enterprise called the Buzov Elevator, which is located in the Dnipropetrov region. Thus, according to paragraph 4.2 of the statute, now a subsidiary, the Buziové elevator of property was transferred to the enterprise only to the operating office, that is, the ownership of the elevator of the subsidiary was not transferred. But contrary to the above - mentioned child enterprise, it is considered bankrupt, property belonging to a company, or state, is being alienated, and property is being sold at no cost to a firm. A deal was made with this firm without agreement with the company, and I think it was with the State Property Fund, where the parent company was accounted for. And by decision, this enterprise today is declared bankrupt by the arbitral tribunal in Dnipropetrovsk. Still, it follows that there is a whole series of laws violations that are now taking place in our country. So the trade in this property is, and although the prosecution is protesting this trade, the court, in the Magdalena region, is obliged to approve the notary, that is to say, issue the relevant documents. And then there's more ignoring what's going on. So in this example, I would like to look at some of the problems. First. The objectivity of the court’s proceedings regarding the alienation of State property and compliance with the requirements of the law. The other one. Notary activity in the certification of contracts for the sale of such property. Third. Persistence in defending the State's interests in protecting state property and using all possible legal measures to do so. And here's the surprise of the position of the Foundation, and today we've heard a report from the head of the Property Fund when he says that I'm not being warned, and I'm not at all aware of what's going on. But you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, are entrusted with what is said to be the protection of property, and at that time you do not know who is being handed over and who is being sold. This raises the question: Why is there a Property Fund in the first place when it is stolen in front of its eyes while it is a statistician? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u314	National MP Petrov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u315	Victor Petrov, U.K.A. Company, Vinnitsk district. That's not what we're looking at today, comrades, the question of the report, "What did privatization give us?" It is therefore necessary to report here, not to the Head of the Detainee Foundation, but to report to the Government, both the President and the First President and the Second President, in order to tell the Ukrainian people directly that privatization is the greatest deception. And if today we are going to privatize the strategic sites of Oblenergo and so on and so on, and yesterday the President has already agreed that, at the eleventh anniversary of the Ukrainian skirmish, he said that we should privatize certain railway facilities, so what is it that we are asking? I do not think Vinnica is different from other regions of Ukraine, but there is no enterprise in the Vinnitz region that would have been better employed after changing the form of ownership. A sugar factory is purchased, a nearby sugar plant is purchased to be cut into scrap metal. And we're all looking at it and pretending to be implementing some kind of privatization plan. What happened to Vinnick's headgear? That's the factory where over 10,000 people worked. Human beings. A year ago it worked 3,000. And today, these people have been thrown into the streets because they have been privatized by such barbaric methods as have occurred. So let's not pretend that this is all going according to plan, that privatization has given something. I don't want to blame the State Property Fund, he has such powers, he's doing what he's told. But I believe that we must decide today when there will be a day of voting, a day of hearing the Cabinet of Ministers, a time limit and determining what privatization has given her, where she has gone, who has become the master of these strategic objects, and rightfully, in vain, Gennady Andreevich, you protect, when the committee heads speak, those names that are called. Let's say to the people, in Vinnice they bought a seed factory, only three seed factories for all of Ukraine, and who bought it, even the district administration of the year couldn't find out who bought the plant and with whom to solve the issues from where to get the seeds. That is why we must have a very different conversation today, in a very different direction, not to listen to the State Property Fund, but to listen to the Government and see whether such privatization should not be conducted or conducted. With regard to strategic sites, such as energy, machinery, mine, of course, this cannot be done. As for the bakery, the bakery, the shop, let it be privately owned, the loss will not be in the state. But the fact that they privatized six skylights, and now they're trying to privatize the Shrimp, and you're shocked that you should have done it sooner, you couldn't have done it at all. Putting a relationship in private is a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u316	Yes, the time taken to consider this matter is exhausted. So what other proposals are we going to have? Yes, we will. about the decision. What is one question? No, no, we've got it now. And then we have the Family Code. Everything will be fine today. Decisions will be made with consideration. National Deputy Yeshchenko from the procedure. Now, now. We have a desire to speak out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u317	Fucking Communist faction. I'm talking to you. Mikolaiovich, to the Property Fund, however, Vladimir Mikhailovich, when the materials are being prepared, should still be analysed. Now, I support our distinguished MP, Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić, who asked us a question, why didn't they present us with materials to compare how the enterprise worked before privatization, and how did it work today? Because that's what the voters who ask us these questions are interested in, because we see in places where privatization is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u318	Thank you. That's basically a good suggestion, but we've already dealt with this question twice, and if we wanted to have that information, it would be important to offer it. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Information from the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of prosecutorial supervision in the area of the fight against organized crime. I'll remind you that we're looking at this in the context of the report of our profile committee led by our colleague Stretovich. Please, up to 10 minutes for information, up to 10 minutes to answer the question as to how we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u319	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. First of all, I would like to say that I will definitely take a record of today's session concerning the privatization of public property objects, and the prosecutor will check the legality of the issues on which the national MPs have raised today. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply convinced that everyone here understands the importance of discussing the issue of combating organized crime. Even more obvious is the need to take decisive steps to strengthen the rule of law and order in the State. I should be honest to say that we still have enough gaps in our work to oversee the enforcement of laws by the authorities that carry out search-and-seeking, knowledge-based and pre-trial investigations into organized crime and corruption. That is why the College of the Attorney General of Ukraine gives special attention to these issues. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, the public, the interested persons, is constantly informed about the work and the state of law in these matters. I would particularly like to inform you of active cooperation with the Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Already in the current year, the state of legality in the fight against organized crime and corruption has been reviewed three times at meetings of the General Prosecutor’s Office’s College, district attorneys, coordinating and well-known councils, including hearing reports from managers of the relevant departments of the IMF and the BSS. Under the direction of Michael Alexiyovich, such an extended meeting was held in Santa Claus. I am sure that in order to overcome existing problems, it is essential, first and foremost, to develop the concept of reforming internal affairs. Thoroughly prepare a new version of the Prosecutor’s Law in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the international obligations of our state. We are almost finished with this work. Reports by law enforcement officials indicated some disturbances in the fight against organized crime and corruption. To be honest, it doesn't always match the reality. As you know, the state’s criminogenic situation continues to be complex and tense. This is evidence of this, as indicated in the November 29th plenary meeting, as well as many other facts of criminal corruption that take place in our society. I assure you that all the facts discussed in this discussion are checked in the Attorney General's Office and the necessary response measures will be taken. Concerns some of the powerlessness of law enforcement agencies to combat crime, their inability to identify those responsible for the crime in a number of cases, and to bring the matter to trial. First of all, this refers to unsatisfactory results in the fight against crimes in the field of economics and authorities and government, the organization of the detection and investigation of deliberate killings. The other day, I visited the Odessa region and came to a clear conclusion. The situation there in the fight against organized crime involves investigating a number of criminal cases, including the disappearance of Tatarchuk, which requires immediate intervention in the direction of law enforcement. In connection with this case, on December 6, this year, criminal murder was committed. On my instructions, a group of experts from the Attorney General’s Office went to other areas to handle the situation and respond adequately. Recently, I was brought to the disciplinary responsibility of the prosecutor of the Donetsk district for failing to ensure proper supervision of the criminal investigation into the murder of journalist Alexandrov, and his deputy in the investigation was transferred to another area of work. We are invited to cooperate in this criminal case with former officials of the Donetsk district of Solodun and Serbia, who have repeatedly reported to law enforcement authorities about the relationship of individual officials with criminal authorities and their groups. These facts are now being scrutinized. And this is far from the complete list of facilities used, especially in cases of irregularity by special departments in the fight against organized crime. In the current year alone, more than 2,000 applications and complaints from civil servants from departments, 39 of whom are found to be well - founded, have been filed and prosecuted. The expansion has been in violation of the requirements of the law for the conduct of search and search, search and removal of items and documents. Clearly, these violations do not go unnoticed by appropriate procuratorial responses. As you know, according to the results of the review of the appeal of the national deputy Sevkovic to the actions of the members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Ukraine under the arrest of the citizen of the Russian Federation, we are immediately pending the consideration of the matter before the Supreme Council has brought a criminal case against the fact that there has been a breach of official powers that is currently under investigation by the prosecutor's office in Kiev. We are also investigating and investigating a criminal case involving the abuse of the civil service staff of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine during a search in the premises of ZAT "Energy Standard" in Kiev, where two bags of white powder were removed. In this criminal case, the Attorney General's Office was detained from particularly important cases of the Ministry's GDR, and the question of choosing a precautionary measure of arrest is being resolved regarding it. In general, In Ukraine, nearly 500 internal affairs officers were drawn to disciplinary responsibility by our initiative, i.e. 1 out of every 10 employees. Another eight have been prosecuted for crimes committed by them in the service, and cases have already been brought to trial. A number of such criminal cases have been committed by the prosecutor’s office over the past few months, and they are currently being investigated by the central prosecutor’s office. For example, this is a criminal case involving an organized criminal group, more than twelve people, including four police officers in Kiev, who have committed more than ten murders and kidnappings of citizens, so-called "Workers' Case". A preliminary investigation is also being conducted in the case of HBOZ officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev, who, in excess of their official powers, illegally detained citizens and used violence and special means. In this case, decisions have been made to detain these fellow workers and they are now in search of them. For example, in the current year, 32 criminal cases involving police officers were filed only by Kiev’s Attorney’s Office, 15 of whom have been prosecuted and tried for crimes. I think after what you've said, you understand our position in upholding the rule of law in the task force to fight organized crime and corruption. A balanced human rights policy, uncompromisingness and principle and orderliness -- all of this falls under the responsibility of each of the heads of law enforcement and other state bodies. It is no coincidence, therefore, that, according to the Office of the Attorney-General, in November of this year, the management of the Navy has been called upon to disciplinary responsibility by nine heads of the district of WHO. Of these, 3 have been reduced in office and 1 has been warned of part - time service responsibility. Also announced were three bullies for the U.S.S.S.S. My position here is clear: the prosecutor's office will continue to use all the powers available to the mouth. and the warning of violations of the law in the activities of the underdogs and, in the necessary cases, in order to bring those responsible to the statutory responsibility. All the way to the crime scene. At the same time, I will stop at some other problems that can only be solved by your direct participation. First of all, it is the need to urgently update existing legislation that regulates the fight against organized crime, since most of its provisions are outdated, do not meet the requirements of today, and sometimes conflict with other legislative acts. In particular, Ukraine’s law on organized legal foundations in the fight against organized crime, which was adopted in 1993, was effectively unlimited in powers and responsibilities of organs specifically designed to combat organized crime. I mean, the special departments of the Ministry of Interior and the Security Service of Ukraine and other bodies involved in this fight. I mean, all the other law enforcement agencies. As well as the bodies entrusted with the obligation to promote special divisions in such a struggle. This is the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine. In turn, this leads to duplication and parallelism in the work of the last. That is why it is urgent to make appropriate changes to current legislation by providing for a clear delimitation of powers and responsibilities of special departments and other government agencies that fight organized crime and corruption. I've got a minute. Huh? Yes. Thank you. In this regard, I inform you that the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine is currently working on the development of changes and additions to current legislation on the fight against organized crime and corruption. We have made our proposals for this matter to the Supreme Council's profile committee. At the same time, I would like to point out that such work requires a careful study of the situation in Ukraine and the international experience of legislative work. This approach gives us reason to believe that there are special units in our country to combat organized crime and corruption: GIBHO, MSA, Gubgos, SBU - needs to be reformed. In recent times, violations of the requirements of the law have become possible primarily because of the lack of adequate safeguards in the current legislation for their compliance with the law, especially in the course of operational and search activities. Under such circumstances, it is necessary to clearly determine the competence and authority of these departments in the law, to make them more open to the prosecutor’s office and to control them by the legislative body. I'm sure everyone is surprised by the information about the absence of organized crime groups in some areas of Ukraine. At the same time, the organized group recognizes two minors who agreed to remove the hat from the passerby. It's said to be two different things. It seems to me that special security in latent, or hidden organized crime, and it also needs to be handled by special latent means, they need to be regulated by appropriate laws, taking into account security assurances for the employees of these departments. It is therefore necessary to develop an electronic monitoring system for the activities of criminal groups, to use new electronic technologies, and modern technology. There is also a need for a solution to the issue of the creation of an interdisciplinary centre of legal information and statistics, which can include responsibilities for the collection of primary information on crime, the work of law enforcement agencies to combat crime and to maintain the rule of law, the conduct of one single state criminal statistics, research into public opinion, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by noting that the implementation of these proposals will enable the State to create the right conditions for effective countering organized crime and corruption. I look forward to fruitful cooperation on these issues with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the Committees of Profiles and with all the National Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u320	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the answers and questions. As we agreed, 10 minutes of answers and questions. Put it on the board, please. National Deputy Lechchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u321	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Saint Nicholas, please tell me, does the Attorney General's Office really consider the serious capture of the part of the Ukrainian administration's premises as a crime by a group of organized criminals because they're still terrorizing national deputies? And the second question. Please tell us, how do you feel about whose greater authority in the city of Kiev and in other cities or groups of organized Bosnian-type criminals with princely conduct, or the administration of the local council or local council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u322	With regard to the criminal case, which was violated by the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office regarding the seizure of the premises of the Ukrainian President's Administration and the radio broadcaster, such, indeed, cases are, and the Attorney General's Office continues to work on it, because, I have already reported this at the Supreme Council meeting, there were relevant reports, statements that we have responded to them in accordance with current legislation. After the investigation is completed, I'll tell you how it's going to end with this case. But I can honestly say that the case is being investigated, carried out, the charges have not yet been brought against anyone, that is. We plan to work with the people's deputies in such a way that, given their employment and status, we invite people's deputies to show, if necessary, they come, they show. Well, we don't see any interference with the investigation yet. On the second question of the city of Kiev. I have already said in my report that not only in Kiev but in other areas of the fight against organized crime are we fine. But believe me, the law enforcement agencies and the cities of Kiev, and the law enforcement agencies of Ukraine, are taking all possible and necessary action, everything they can do, and most of the time it's decent, honest workers who are loyal to a small wage fighting organized crime and crime. And we're working on it. Well, of course, it's impossible to overcome it, as it is in the whole world, but something has to be done and done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u323	National MP Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u324	George Manchulenko, Chernovets region, 203 district, faction of our Ukraine. Mr. Attorney General, I have a few questions for you. First, how effective is the work of the coordinating committee to combat crime with the President of Ukraine? And is there any point in the further existence of such a structure? That's the first question. The second question. Today we are looking at a rather painful problem in our society. This is corruption, organized crime. Clearly, the tragedy that occurred with Gongadze did not go unnoticed by a variety of corruption. You said that when you were assigned to this position, that you would report, literally in six months, the completion of this investigation, or so far as the results of the investigation of this resonance case, that you could already give us some information. Next, you're talking about the reorganization of GUS, MSC and BSS, and I totally agree with you, but maybe we should look at the BSC in a completely different way and take away the BSC, not its own functions, but make it a clean information service without GUS. I'm finishing up, one question, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Recently, an IL-18-D Air Force of Ukraine was sold through a child enterprise called Ukrespecexport, Progress, for $144,000. Do you think it's necessary to respond to the Henprocurator or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u325	Yeah, a lot of questions. Of course, if I'm confusing something. Why? I could say that, in principle, it's a coordinating committee. I agreed, in principle, with Michael Alexiyovich's opinion that there is a coordinating body on this issue is the Attorney General's Office and the Prosecutor's Office on the ground, and there is also a Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to combat organized crime. So maybe today we can do without that committee you were talking about. And you can totally do that because it doesn't get worse because we have something to do. The other one. Well, in Gongada you probably watch a press conference, I give them often, and my deputies. We're working. Yesterday, there was a meeting with Krueger where we worked on this issue, and what we might say is that the rest is the secret of the investigation. When will this matter be revealed? Of course, everyone is working on finding the killer. You'll hear and see.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u326	IL-18.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u327	Yeah, then it was about reforming the U.B.I. and other special divisions. It's a very difficult question, it's impossible to give up this system completely today, because I already said it's special organs, but it has to be separate legislation. which should regulate their activities and very clearly write out their search and search operations. So it's a plane. Well, after Il-18, I wrote it down, and I'm going to figure out what this situation is, Il-18.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u328	Georgi Korniyovich Kruchkov, Communist faction. Please turn on the Microphone of the People's Deputy Krüčkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u329	Dear Svetoslav Mikhailovich. In Ukraine, the entire industry of the Black Sea Sea was destroyed. In 1993, an investigation into the case of known persons raised the question of the illegal recalculation of more than a million dollars abroad of the son of the then president of Ukraine. I've been asking MPs six times over the last three or four years to report how the case is being investigated. I absolutely don't want to interfere in the matter in fact, I understand my place as a national MP, I only wanted one -- after all, when will this work be done? A year ago, then Deputy Attorney General Obikh Mikhailo Sergiyovich announced that the criminal case had been committed. Six months later, I returned to the Attorney General’s Office asking to know how the matter was going. I was told that it was very difficult, or repeated, what was reported four years ago. I wanted to contact you with one. Can I ask you an official MP's request to answer, could there ever be a dot in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u330	Thank you. We're really investigating this case today, it's got lots of episodes, this case. This applies not only to the son of the former president of Ukraine but also to other high officials. The case is being investigated, it's now being studied, the necessary versions that we're working on are being worked out. And I think, of course, you'll turn around, but I think the outcome of the investigation of this case will be known because we're moving and we're working on this case. I just know this case, I've been giving it instructions recently, studying, written instructions. It's not working, it's moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u331	National MP Anatoly Rahansky, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u332	Anatoly Rahansky, 4th European constituency, Hard Ukraine. Mr. Stanislav Mikhailovich, you know that in the legal field of unfulfilled commitments by Ukraine to the Council of Europe, there remains an unfulfilled commitment to the transformation of the role and functions of the Attorney General’s Office. I have just returned from a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly Committee of the Council of Europe, and there, on the committee, they raise questions about when this commitment will eventually be fulfilled. I would like to hear how the work on the transformation of the role and functions of the Attorney General's Office is being carried out in order for us to fulfil this obligation by at least April of the month? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u333	Thank you for asking. The situation is the following. In principle, the Office of the Attorney General, we are prepared to transform the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office law into international and European standards. But today it's been a matter of change or a new criminal procedure code. The Criminal Procedure Code is the standard of living of the law. And it's going to be very difficult for us to adopt a new law on the prosecution first, and then decide what this prosecutor should do in the prosecution and in the investigation. Therefore, at first, it would be desirable, or at the same time, to adopt the Criminal Procedure Code, the Prosecutor's Office Act, and to amend the Constitution. That would be perfect. Because if we're saying that narrowing the functions of the prosecution's investigation doesn't mean that the prosecution shouldn't be investigating at all. This means that, on the contrary, it should activate its prosecutorial supervision of the legality of the investigation, as in all the developed countries of the world. So this is a very serious question. We have a working group. Leading this working group, Hennaday Andrievich Vasiliev. We've met before, we've worked, we've been experts from the Council of Europe, we've worked with, we've come twice. And we've found an understanding of this, and that's why the issue of reforming the prosecutor's office into the European system is happening, but that depends on how other laws are going to be drafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u334	Thank you, Holy Michaelovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Out of procedure, please. National Deputy Grzezhev from the procedure. Then Samofal of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u335	Vladimir Mihajlovich, such an important question that we are considering today, and he is interested in many, including our voters, I would like to extend the answers to questions for five minutes in this regard. That would be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u336	We agreed on that, but there was a possibility, you should've said that it would buy you more time. I'm interested in the bills that we need to consider, and you're no less interested. Samofalov, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u337	Samofalov, Party of Regions, MEP group "European Vibor". Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question. This is the last time that it was a day-to-day question about the Attorney General's report, the first time we were taken out of here, and we were drowning, and shame, and all that. Today, with the importance of such a question, we have invited the Attorney General here today, with a mass of resonance cases: the Gongadze case, the Bank of Ukraine, and so on and so forth. There were 40 people in the hall today! Do you forgive me, does it make sense or not? Perhaps when you see such a situation in the hall, you should not ask what you should not hear, nor should you invite the prosecutor to these things. Because he spent the whole day with an official who was supposed to handle the case. Do you understand? We have a lot of yelling, you know, left and right about what we should do in power, and when it comes to practical things, there's no reason for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u338	Alexander Frost's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u339	I think it's perfectly legitimate for Samofal to ask such a question. But the question is to him. So where's your faction? Let her sit there and ask questions. And here's another issue that's a very challenging question, for example, what it's about. Gongadze. Today, people are being misinformed by television. I'm sorry, stupid arguments from the prosecutor's office, the attorney general's deputy. He's joking that you see, Gongadze came out, fell down, his head ripped off. It's not a joke, it's a diagnosis! So the question is whether a prosecutor can be asked or not. You're supposed to be watching. Asks the MP a question for two minutes. You have to bet in a minute and there's plenty of time to answer other questions. That's what this is about, when it comes to procedure, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u340	Alexandre Alexandrovich, National MP of Samofal Replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u341	MP Moroz asked us where our faction, the MP group, was. I answer, Alexander Alexandrovich, our group voted unanimously for Piscona's comrade, she trusts him, they're just giving him an opportunity to work today. Do you understand? That is why we do not have questions about him today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u342	Dear National Deputies! I would ask the honourable national deputies and Alexander Alexandrovich not to accuse me of violating the Rules. So all I would do is turn off the microphones of the national MPs. I'm trying to be tolerant. And we agreed, I am deeply grateful to Alexander Alexanderovich for your approach. But as you asked, you did, and now you wanted to speak. Everything can't be done right now, Alexander Alexandrovich. Well, I'm telling you, you don't have to look for a reason to blame them where they don't exist. Dear colleagues! Is there another suggestion to consider the bill? Please, Onopenko. Can a national MP come out of the procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u343	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to brief you on making changes to the final provisions of the Marriage and Family Code. You know that since January 1, a new marriage code is due to enter into force, the Family Code and the new Ukrainian Civil Code was due to enter into force on January 1. When we worked on these two codes, the section on care and care, we moved from the Family Code to the Civil. If the Civil Code had entered into force on January 1, everything would have been in place, but it would not have entered. Thus, the section on care and care falls out in general and does not deal with these problems. So I'm introducing a draft change to the corresponding chapter in such a way that the old positions of the former Family Codex are in effect. That's the problem. So I would like to ask you, when the vote is over, to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u344	Borschewski, by procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u345	Nevertheless, I would like to support my colleagues that very few answers and questions have been answered to the Attorney General. In fact, the problem of combating organized crime as corruption in the courts today remains as important behind the brackets. This problem, which is now the only one, may be the most important in the fight against organized crime, corruption, that remains beyond the grasp of our consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u346	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u347	I want to answer that question. The Committee on Legal Policy prepares parliamentary hearings. We will come up with this proposal for a session of the Supreme Council to consider the state of judicial reform in Ukraine, including the issue of corruption in the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u348	Thank you. Your Honor, there is no objection to the National Deputy Onopenka in connection with his proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u349	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-13-m0.u350	Dear colleagues, then let me thank you for your active work, for your patience, and for calling the meetings closed. Monday we have the Conciliation Council, we have a week of work. We'll start the plenary session at 10 o'clock on Tuesday. Thank you. And without a break, yes.
