ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please take up jobs. Raisa Vasilovna, who is there for joy without permission, is doing something. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:31]] Registered -365 There are 365 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Batech's Tetjana Dmitrovna, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrovna, Diminian Peter Petrovich. Let's welcome them and wish them all the best. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for applications, messages and suggestions, and in the meantime, I'm going to call in the questions that have come. Please record. Please explain to the board who signed up for the performance. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Paul Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the gasification work of the city of Ovrók Jítomirsk, which is linked to the zone of radioactive pollution. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:05:19]] For-97 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Movchan, Durres and others - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of the premises of the All-Ukrainian Information Centre in Sevastopol. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:48]] For 128 Decision taken. Sergey Slabenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying status of persons with disabilities with individual means of transport in Volinsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:06:15.]] For 133 Vladimir Puzakov to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction of the surgical corps of the Kirovograd City Hospital of Emergency Medical Care. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:06:41]] For-154 Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on deliberate delay by the Attorney General’s Office and the State Tax Administration of Ukraine in the objective investigation of conditions of laundering abroad 150 million U.S. dollars through Private Bank correspondent accounts. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:07:15]] For 122 Decision taken. Deputies - Lucenko, Steckov, School, Nosenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of financial discipline in VAT "The Shrine". I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:07:43]] For 112 Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal actions against the issue of State-owned land rights by the head of the Ukrainian Rural Council and the head of the gold-bearing regime of the Cherka region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:15]] For 121 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on violations of the requirements of effective legislation and on the existence of corruption in resolving the question of the abolition of the "Schlah" market in the holiday area of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:48]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Grigory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the intentional dismissal of the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service from considering a parliamentary appeal to verify the export information from Ukraine to Israel. United States dollars. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:25]] For-129 For - 129, the decision is made. Jury Solomatin to Kyiv City Head Alexander Omelchenko, a parliamentary request in connection with the improper execution by the Voice of the regime in Kiev of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Act of Ukraine "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and the exceedment of powers in the investment of ATZT "Bancommunity", I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:08]] For-103 For 103, the decision is made. Please give us a list of the names of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, prepare for Rahanski. For half an hour, my dear colleagues, I ask you to abide by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u2	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, after the adoption of the Constitution in accordance with the Transitional Regulations of the Constitution, we had to adopt a whole series of bills that would go into the development of the Constitution. In particular, the basic principles of internal and external politics, the law on local self - government, and laws on the judiciary. Recently, at its meeting, the Special Monitoring Commission held an extended meeting with representatives of the MPs, the heads of the District Committees on Privatization Control. The most painful question that we have been asked by members of the district and district councils is the adoption of a law on municipal property. And what I want to say is that today, on the board, in detail, when we do a study on privatization and enforcement, we clearly see that the absence of a law on municipal property is causing the expansion of state property. The Law on Transfer from State Property to Public Services provides for the transfer of the property and the administration concerned. But the law, which is not available, allows, first and foremost, without binding an appropriate regulatory base, to stretch the property. Today, there is a trend: kindergartens, boarding houses, health facilities are transferred to communal property and then privatized, and privatized outside privatization laws. Privatization through the Specialist, through the Tax Administration, is being carried out accordingly. This is the situation today with an appropriate property complex called Atec in Kiev, a hospital in Odessa. I think I'm going to be speaking at parliamentary hearings today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to address you. We're making a plan of work. We should take a clear look at the legislative documents that should go into the development of the Constitution, and the primary ones should consider and adopt in this room the basic principles of domestic and foreign policy, the Law on the Management of State Property Objects, the Law on Communal Property Management, the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the Law on the Fund of State Property. I'm not calling all of this by accident, because since 1994, I've been proposing in the hall and adopting the Law on Reprivatization. And literally a few days ago, I saw a very interesting document signed by Mr. Medvedchuk. At his own time, he strongly opposed the adoption of these legislative instruments and, in particular, the Law on Reprivatization. Today, he supports it. I hope that when the law is passed, when the factions vote on Thursday, they will support the proposal and accept the appropriate document. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking you from the commission and from those members of the district councils that we had at our meeting. The Law on Communal Property, on the administration of public property objects, is considered to be the first priority, so that we can clearly identify the property that is in the local communities today, and so that people’s deputies know what they are managing and what they are responsible for. And that's the first thing that's going to make it possible to save the country's field and obstetric points and provide adequate funding so as not to blow up the network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u3	Anatoly Rahansky, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trug Ukraine". Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u4	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, Trudova Ukraine. It's an interfractional compound called Deputat Chernobyl. A statement by the deputy faction of political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs, "Trudova Ukraine" on ignoring legislative acts on the priority of social development in the village. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Despite the warnings of sociologists, many public appeals, the rural situation is getting worse, the village is deteriorating, and the rural population is declining. At the same time, the legislative requirements for solving social problems in rural areas are being ignored. In accordance with the President’s decree, the Ministry’s Office of Finance for the Construction of Social Infrastructure Objects in the Rural Region provides for the allocation of state-owned capital investments of 30 percent of the total. Or about a hundred million dollars. In ten months of this year, however, only one third of the village’s infrastructure has been funded. Even worse, the village’s Chernobyl construction program is being implemented. There is also a very tense supply of drinking water for the rural population, especially in southern parts of the country. As you know, in the rural area, social buildings are now being transferred to the communal property of local communities, reformed farmers. However, the maintenance and maintenance of these facilities requires considerable funds that are not available. Unfortunately, the government ignored these figures in the 2003 budget. And thanks to the budget committee, some of them were included, but not all of them. We therefore consider it necessary to anticipate in the 2003 State budget the necessary expenditure for the implementation of the Government’s rural social development programme. A single article will allocate $35 million. to drill artesian wells at the expense of the congregation for geological exploration. Define funding expenditure for state-owned programmes approved by the relevant laws of Ukraine. Set up funds for the implementation of the Chernobyl construction program in the village. Also, anticipate the cost of paying off debt on social payments to black people. The deputy faction of political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs, "Trudova Ukraine", insists on the new government taking full account of the above-mentioned proposals for the 2003 budget project. Begging, fellow MPs, to support this appeal. In our view, this will lead to more fruitful cooperation between the parliament and the government of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u5	Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u6	Please give the floor to Mr. Timoshenko, National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Special Investigation Commission, Valentin Sergiyovich Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u7	Valentin Sergiyovich Zubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I understand that, with the appointment of the new Prime Minister, the problem of the establishment of a majority and a minority in Parliament has been resolved. Congratulations to both the President and those who put the problem in front of the hall and solved it. Actually, I wanted to pay attention to something. Normal parliamentary work is beginning. And I think that, between us here, we should not speak the language of emotion, without, let's say, individual feelings of respect or disrespect for the opposition or the opposition, we should speak the language of numbers, facts and arguments. Today, the issue of budget adoption is being discussed actively. And so it has happened that there is much talk and more speculation about this problem today. This is where I'm supposed to be, I've seen him, my countryman, a respected man, a national MP, a majority representative, the president of the stockholder society of the Novokramator Engineering Plant. We were with him, he was in the district, and I was there because he was also from Kramatarsk. And here he is, holding a meeting of city business leaders, giving interviews and the media, speaking to business leaders and saying that we are doing everything in Parliament to make sure that the budget is balanced so that it is socially oriented and so on. And here's the opposition in the number of four factions, calling them, doing destructive work. They have yet to find an income of 6 billion rubles and block the work of the Supreme Council. At the same time, they are tasking themselves, and six billion require some of their incomprehensible goals and objectives. Think of it, my friends, the speech is given by the Director-General of the largest business in Ukraine, the person who must be responsible for each word. But every word in this case is a cynical lie, because the opposition is constantly claiming here in this room that there is money in the budget, that in parallel with the official budget we have a shadow budget, that today the opposition is proposing to reduce the financing of the public tax inspection, reduce the financing of the President's Administration, reduce the financing of the district administrations, reduce the financing of the Attorney-General's Office and these money -- billions -- give those 6 billion to children, poverty, doctors, teachers and so on. Yes, Georgie Markovich, and you're in the newspaper in the Eastern Project interview that's exactly what I can show you. You can't lie so shamelessly and cynically, because, once again, we have money in the country. It is for this money of the shadow budget that new cars are purchased for the Cabinet of Ministers, and there is a massive construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u10	in Conche-Zaspé, Desertwater specialty for civil servants. I stress the need to ensure that the money budget is allocated to children, doctors, teachers, the social sphere.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u11	People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block. Prepare Lukyanenko. Well, now that it's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Please calm down, I'll say a few words, and then you'll be exchanging lines for the previous speeches. I'd like to make two points here. In the first place, I would normally like to stop political prisoners as signs, speak from this rostrum, and tell them that the main sign of the political regime in Ukraine is the presence of political prisoners in Ukrainian prisons. So far, it's been confirmed by a prosecutor's request, a prosecutor's request for maximum terms for boys who sit on the 9th of March, from 3 to 10 years. That is, the prosecutor has clearly carried out the tasks of the existing political regime and requires maximum punishment for people whose guilt has not been proved, as the prosecutor has pointed out in his statement. But I would like to make this a broader issue. The issue was now under consideration and the issue of combating terrorism would be voted on. Here is a strong confirmation of how the anti-terrorist law is, of course, necessary, but will be used as an important influence on the opposition. In its time, the president of Ukraine, Kuchma, disappointed that there was no real terrorism in Ukraine, said that after the events of September 11 in the United States, it was fashionable to look for domestic terrorists, speaking in Chernivsky in October 2001, that terrorists were in Ukraine and that these terrorists were participants in the events of March 9th. The same terrorists were later referred to as other participants in the "Ukraine Without Couchma" campaign. That's what terrorists will be called "Resurrender, Ukraine!" And any opposition will be qualified in the light of the fight against terrorism. Likewise, these boys, I stress once again that they are sitting in March 9, whose guilt is not proven in the trial, and I am convinced that the judge will confirm this by his completely objective judgment. Nevertheless, their actions will later be marked with the help of our adopted law on the fight against terrorism. It is important to remember that the adoption of penal laws in the totalitarian regime must be very careful, very cautious, whether there is a phenomenon of terrorism in Ukraine or not. You see, you can also pass a law on the fight against the tsunami. There are no tsunamis in Ukraine either, we do not go out into the open ocean. But there are no boundaries and no boundaries in the tsunami, and laws to combat it must be announced, but there must be a clear study of the existence and likelihood of a similar phenomenon in Ukraine. Of course, this law is necessary, but there is a need for a clear standard of implementation and application, because the thoughtless copying of Russian laws or laws of the European Union only leads to apeing processes rather than following the true manifestations of democracy. I'm sure we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u14	To resolve this issue, positive and political prisoners will be released, and the law will be adopted in its proper form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u15	People's Deputy Skudar, faction of Ukraine. Turn on the microphone from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u16	I really didn't expect this to be a performance, because we all know how the Supreme Council works this year. The first six months didn't work because there were elections. For the second six months we are not working - the real sabotage is the four factions that do not vote even on social issues. It is absurd: when one of the factions is speaking, it is from the Quartet, according to a specific law on Tuesday and Wednesday, and no one participates in the ballots on Thursday. Moreover, according to the budget, on the first reading when we received it, it was the real conspiracy when we added 8 billion to the budget that Kabmin offered, and those 8 billion people had to be filled. How do I fill it? How do I balance the budget? At least someone was here. I want you to know, gentlemen of the Quartet, our citizens need to know how sabotage works, how the Supreme Council works. And I'm not giving up any of the words that were written in the newspapers of Kramatorska. If necessary, it will be written in other newspapers, but you, Your Honors, should know that we must be responsible for what we have come here to do. And whoever's been here for 10 years, sitting there and already creating a personal job, he should also think that sooner or later it's going to be over. I am confident that there will be a time when the Supreme Council will have both a constitutional majority and regardless of the demagogues who speak here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u18	It was three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u19	One minute for the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u20	Regardless of them, the Supreme Council will start working, and I'm convinced that's what's going on here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u21	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u22	They're trying to put a shadow on the knitting we're gonna stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u24	Positions. And don't give in to your provocations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u25	All of it. Please finish. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you not to disturb or accuse each other. Let's work. I'm asking you to calm down! People's deputies don't blame each other for telling lies. All the national MPs are telling the truth. Please, National Deputy Leukko Lukyanenko, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u26	Lukianenko, Ukrainian Republican Party, please give the floor to a member of the Ukrainian Republican Party, Omelchenka Grigorija.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u27	Gregory Omelchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u28	Omelchenko Grigory, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Dear colleagues, you can sum it up. If it used to be from the President's mouth that the state is ruled by oligarchs and clans, it is not his words, not mine, if in Ukraine virtually all have been criminalized and shaded, and corruption has infiltrated all the authorities of the government, it is not my conclusion either, it is the conclusion of the guarantor of the Constitution, Mr. Kuchma, that today is clear: in connection with the last appointments in the government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the new Prime Minister and it is very good that the vote has been nominal, and it is very good that, for Yanukovich, I have personally spoken to the leaders of the Presidency here, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and his deputy, with which I welcome you all. So the human resources revolution that the President has been conducting all of his conscious or unconscious life during the leadership of the Ukrainian state has led us to have all of these problems that we have today. This is an appointment to the Presidential Administration of persons who have been tried before, now it is the appointment of a prime minister, formerly a judge. We have with you to look for the next President of Ukraine, who would be no less than three times a judge, because the next President can't be a judge twice as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Second, there's a war going on and the fight isn't with President Kuchma, it's not really there. I'm not going to say that it's a political impotence, a corpse and so on, I'm not going to use those words. There is a war between the two superpowers for Ukraine, for its territory, for the distribution of spheres of influence and for the continuation of human resources policy, who will be our next president, who will be Parliament, and whether we will remain as we are, some residents in Ukraine, and not become a nation, a Ukrainian people who can solve their own internal problems. Dear friends, however it may be, most-minority, but the hall is a small island where there are some principles and principles of democracy, freedom of speech, and perhaps unification and resolution of college issues on all the problems that exist in the state. Volodymyr Ivanovich, you have a personal request, and you don't have to vote for it: let's hear in December the report of the Attorney General, the information and information I have led the Interim Investigation Commission on the results of criminal investigations into the murder of journalist George Gongadze, Igor Alexandrov and other resonance crimes. Secondly, I ask you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to hold a closed meeting in December and to listen to the interim commission of inquiry that we have created in Iraq and in the illicit arms trade, to invite here the President of Ukraine, all the heads of the force ministries and departments, members of the National Security Council of Ukraine, and to speak openly. And I'm there, and I'm going to tell you in this closed session, and it's already confirmed, it's not just Iraq, it's not just Iran, it's not just North Korea, it's not just China and so on. And in a closed session, we're going to make a decision, and maybe we can convince and convince Leonid Danilovich Kuchma himself that at this closed session, he's going to write an application for voluntary resignation, and we're going to hold presidential elections for the term, we're going to make changes to the Constitution, and we're going to hold parliamentary elections on a new proportional basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u29	National MP Bespali Boris Jakovic. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u30	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, on Thursday, we made a wise decision to protect you from robbing subscribers, and I emphasize that all kinds of phone calls and phones — both simple and mobile. That is to say, it was forbidden to collect additional money for incoming phone calls. Since then, however, interested lobbyists have made a furious cry in all the media to gain the President’s veto. Since performances tend to protect the profits of multibillion-dollar operators, I have to take further action to protect consumers in order to try to prevent this veto. The argument they're using is economic: they're going to be budget losses. Let's figure out what we're going to lose, what we're going to lose. In fact, operators lose billions, which means that all people really lose a few million. Who's gonna win? Once again, ordinary citizens - users of communication, which are the same billions that no one can reach, are left with. So it turns out that the budget doesn't get a few million, but citizens keep a few billion. So what's wrong with that? Next. In Ukraine today, mobile communication and communication in general are in decline. It is not surprising, for one who receives a lot of light money is not interested in developing a branch in such a way as to provide quality services. For example: Spain 40 million people, along with babies with 32 million mobile phones. And it's not the most developed country. The next aspect is legal. They say there's a bill in there somewhere. Well, first of all, I don't agree that we're interfering with tariffs at all, because let the tariffs be set at any rate. But I'm addressing and asking you to draw the attention of the Antimonopoly Committee to the colossal monopolization of this area. And I think it's time for the tender to invite those telephone operators to Ukraine who will be able to provide quality services on a global basis, where nowhere in the world is there a separate extra payment for incoming calls. And I'm also pointing out that the same lobbyists and mobile operators, for example, agree that they do rob people and promise to stop it in a year or two. So essentially they recognize ours with you, colleagues, right. We've been giving them six months in the bill, that's a good time. And yet I hope that, given all the arguments that are available and that this protects millions of consumers in Ukraine, and this law will be signed, the anti-monopoly committee please correct the text of my speech as a parliamentary address. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u31	National Deputy Terrence, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Get ready for Kenzior. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u32	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, friends, journalists! I'd like to draw Tymoshenko's attention to this issue from the Yulia Block. During the day, a number of problems arose in connection with the relocation of Ukrainians from the Netherlands in 1944-1946. Subtle to Ukraine. And unfortunately, that question was removed. I mean, it was a parliamentary hearing. I understand the warnings and those of colleagues who were afraid of this issue and thought it might have caused some tension with Brother Poland. I would like to point out that this was primarily about not finding out any relationship, but only about the problems that have arisen in these people who have moved to Ukraine. It was about solving social issues, about a simplified cross-border, finally about the cultural problems of a unique cultural layer, such as Lemkishte. Today, they have neither their cultural associations nor their newspapers. Sadly, this question was removed. I want to say that Poland has solved this issue. Not only did the mouths of Kwasniewsky apologize for what had happened but they resolved the question: They gave the land to the Poles who had been displaced from Ukraine. We are even afraid to listen to this question. And here I'm absolutely in Parliament to say to everyone that I'm very respectful of, unfortunately, missing now seems like Refat Chubarov, who stood so clearly for hearing about the relocation of the Crimean Tatar people, and he's done it. We Ukrainians, unfortunately, have some kind of cost-effective complex. We're afraid to even talk about it. And this set of costs goes up and that's the question, and it's either, let's say, Rusification, let's say we can give away all the gas lines, but we're afraid to even talk about it. Finally, dear colleagues, there is the conclusion of an independent scientific expert department, signed by Mr. Matsuk, where he writes unequivocally for these issues to be addressed in Parliament, so that this would be done, you know, by listening at least as a minimum. And that's why we have to listen to that too. I think it's a problem at all. Not only the Ukrainians who were moved from Podlesh, Helmish. And how many Ukrainians return to their homeland from Kazakhstan, Siberia. We're afraid to even talk about it. What's coming back from Tajikistan, from other hot spots, where Ukrainians came out as a result of some kind of conflict. This issue must be in Parliament and it must be a cost-effective package that must be eliminated and eliminated from Parliament. I very much ask you personally to conclude, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to clarify my position, to clarify the position of Yulia Timoshenko's Block and we gave this word to the electorate and when this question will stand on the Conciliation Council, to listen accordingly to what I have just said. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u33	People's deputy Kenzior, please. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u34	Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Ukraine is in a lot today. at a very disturbing and responsible stage in his life. We are going through another time of government formation. This is the 10th government during the existence of an independent Ukrainian state. Each of us has already analyzed, as it were, the composition of the government of the part that is already approved and the candidates who will sit in the minister's chairs in the very next few days. It was understood that the very behind of the formation of a new government, and its composition, we are obviously following the approach of presidential elections. We see in whose hands power is now concentrated in our nation. And if you speak figuratively and perhaps very coolly, today's formed team reminds me of a specialnaz that should storm the next presidential election, that is, take the Presidential Summit to ensure this victory. If the idea of appointing the head of the Ukrainian Tax Administration instead of Azarov Sergio Medvedczuk, the younger brother of the head of the Ukrainian Administration, is fulfilled, then it will be a definitive proof of what I am saying. Someone, and the Levites know very well the activities of the younger brother of the head of the administration. This is a man who cries, not a place, not a head of the Tax Administration, but a criminal lava. And if such a person is appointed to such a high office, the methods and means used by this man in the region of Lviv will no doubt be transformed, transformed, implemented within the entire Ukraine and image, a portrait of the Ukrainian government, a team that goes out during the preparations for the presidential election campaign, will be finished. So, the honourable voters, first of all, I'm addressing them, Ukraine is really going through an extraordinary time, and it's going to be going through a difficult period of history, and if we're careful and with warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u35	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u36	We're not gonna follow up on this team, we can lose all that, a little bit, but what we've gained over the last 11 years of independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u37	National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u38	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I want to draw attention to only one problem, namely the innovation process, because without it, Ukraine can never be admitted to the European Union. The point is that Europe has acknowledged that the best professionals in Europe are preparing Ukraine in the field of technology and technology. But the problem is that it's been about 10 years, or in some areas 20 years, no textbooks have been published for, like, technical institutes. And the problem is, not that they're in Russian, but that they're just out of date. Today, government priorities are: textbooks are still being published for the school, and for the higher school they are not being published at all. Over the past year, the debt of 2 and a half million dollars has not been allocated to the higher school textbooks for this year. So how can it develop? Well, she'll be on this old luggage for a few years, and then she'll fall. So I'd like to ask you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to form my statement as a protocol commission to the new government that we should pay attention to this aspect, namely, to fund the Ministry of Education and Science just for the production of textbooks for higher education. Because, you know, the previous government has created a paradox like this: on the one hand, there's always talk about the innovation process, even the Prime Minister of China, Seminozhenko and Heinz have published a book about the innovation process, and on the other hand, this process, the innovation process, it's not strengthened. So I'm very much asking you to define my statement as a protocol commission to the government, to put it out immediately, immediately, because these manuals are in the publications, you just have to issue the funds so that we can support the image of our higher technical school in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the time spent on public speaking has been exhausted to announce requests, statements, messages, and suggestions. Relevant assignments will be given in connection with the issues raised in the presentations. And now we're going to work according to Wednesday's schedule. I'm announcing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2002. Reporter, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Ukraine Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksut. Please. How long do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u40	In seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u41	The point is, the minister is not here right now, is the secretary of state. Please. I received a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers requesting that the State Secretary speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u42	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on September 27, introduced a draft bill of Ukrainian law for amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2002. The need for this bill to be passed is due to the fact that when the budget is implemented this year, you know that the cost of privatization was approved in the amount of 5.8 billion. That's right. It is now clear that such an amount will not be received in the current year. Since privatization comes, they are envisioned as a source of funding for budget deficits, the government is offered within the amount of under-recovery by 2.4 billion. In order for the Supreme Council to increase the ability of the government to borrow funds in the internal market while increasing the state debt threshold and thus ensure the normal implementation of the budget this year. So it's not going to be ideal, but it's going to be able to fund the most necessary social costs, first and foremost, to finance regional transfers, to provide funding for protected articles, and so that's the way out of this situation that happened with the implementation of this year's budget. If such a decision is not made, another option is simply to reduce or underfinance expenses. In the government’s view, this is the worst way out of the situation, and the government has proposed such a decision. Moreover, today is the end of the year, and in fact, the money managers have made a commitment this year, and they need to be repaid so as not to create a loan debt in the following year. Taking into account the above, it is proposed that funds be replaced by domestic borrowing instead of privatisation revenues. In doing so, it is proposed to change the national debt ceiling from 12 billion 790,158,1,000 dollars to 159,8240, 9,000 dollars. In the current year, the Ministry of Finance has taken steps to secure planned external borrowing budgets and is working on a budget implementation mechanism in case of non-invention of funds from the World Bank. When considering the draft law in the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, this bill will be reported afterwards. It is planned to channel part of the revenue from the additional domestic government loan to replace the state’s external lending. In our view, this is unacceptable, since the corresponding amount, which is about $250 million, will reduce the ability to borrow internally, thus reducing the possibility of budgeting and funding the most priority articles. Moreover, since the Cabinet of Ministers project was being submitted in September, we now have practically the end of November, and we have been counting on long - term loans. The request for a vote will allow the government to apply both to the long term and to the medium term. [[tomorrow this proposal will be submitted accordingly]] I'm going to remind you that middle-term borrowing is a five-year loan. So on the verge of that, we don't create problems in the coming years for the budget. Dear national deputies, the need for adoption of this bill is precisely prompted by the need to complete the budget year and finance the necessary protected articles. I'm going to say that there's still about a billion and a half to pay off transfers of local budgets. This and helping families with children, this is a grant, it's a subsidy. Today we get just a lot of calls from you to the Cabinet of Ministers asking you to fund and make the most of the necessary capital investments, and to pay off the debt where it came from. And unfortunately, we sometimes have to write that we can't. If this decision is taken, it is not yet a loan, but it allows the government to do it, and it still needs this law to enter into force, to place it on the market, and so on. It takes time. Therefore, the request that tomorrow, when voting is possible, be accepted as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u43	Please, five minutes to ask. Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. Nosenko is invited to attend. Get ready for Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u44	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Please give the floor to Deputy Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u45	Enlighten the MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u46	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Anatoly Arkadyovich, in fact, there is no way to reduce the financing of social spending. Although the Ministry of Finance is already doing so. So answer two questions. First. How much did the income of the budget increase due to high growth rates in 2000 for industrial and agricultural production and GDP as a whole? And the second. How much did the income of the budget increase from the fact that peasants were taken and collected at no cost, and traders were increasing its implementation abroad to nine million tons or up to twelve million tons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. Honourable National Deputies, on November 19, according to a decision of the Conciliation Council of the Cabinet of Ministers, provided the Supreme Council with information on the state of implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget in 2002. I'm just going to say that there's a document, and there's a detailed answer to, let's say, that ratio of growth of the budget. I'm going to say that, in general, under the structure, the budget's income went up to 18 percent last year. This is a very high increase in income. While we had practically deflation this year for most of the year. And you realize that lowering prices is a reduction in the budget's income. And this growth is very important. In part, it was achieved by means of certain decisions, such as the suspension of the use of promissory notes when imported into customs territory and so on, as well as the organizational arrangements of the government. But at the same time, the budget approved for this year has set such a revenue table that unfortunately we cannot implement it under the state budget. That's why I have a request. When we look at tomorrow's budget for 2003, we have to really look at things, that's how much we can actually put into the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u48	Thank you. Next Deputy Konovaluk, faction of Ukraine. Get ready for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Dear Anatoly Arkadyovich! You've already reported professionally enough about the situation that has arisen with the implementation of the budget this year. If we were able to listen to the government after 9 months of budget execution, we would really realize that the reasons that are now there are, first of all, unrealistic justifications and approved state budget indicators. There are two questions. Please answer me. Technicalally, the government will be able to place domestic loans. That's the first question. And for those factions that are now more focused on strengthening social protection. What they will have if the Supreme Council doesn't approve of these changes tomorrow. Because we already have a voting experience in the Supreme Council when we could vote on these changes a month ago and now reduce the social tensions that have arisen in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. First. Is the government going to make it technical? Of course, with every day that brings us closer to the end of the year, the ability of the government to make technical loans is shrinking. That's why I asked you in my statement tomorrow to make this decision, because there's still going to be a bill signed by the president, and then we have to go to the market and take this money. But to this day we feel that this is still possible. Why were we talking about the possibility of medium-term borrowing? Because there is now a government decision on the possibility of a short and medium term. As far as the long - term is concerned, this mechanism is more complex, so technical issues will be complicated. And the second question. What happens if this decision is not made? Well, the answer is very simple. Today it is possible to predict with sufficient probability that the budget will be implemented this year. If this decision is not taken and the government is unable to borrow money, this amount of money will not come into the budget. So that's not going to cost you money. This, I say again, includes protected articles, since we financed not only protected ones but other articles, because otherwise the state cannot live. You need energy, you need some minimal repairs, and so on. If the decision is not made, it will create a problem in the regions first. I mean, in the constituencies and I think this is going to apply directly to the majority MPs. So once again, I want to point out that the adoption of this law is not yet a loan. It's just a right, it's an opportunity for the government to work. Or we can do as much as we can show the actual technical procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u51	People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u52	Thank you. Kirilczuk, Yulia Timoshenko faction, Volin. Alexiovich! We know that those debts or the state budget defaults, even with the information you gave and distributed to the MPs there are only about 80 percent of the organizations -- NAK Naftogaz and Energoatom -- are two state institutions, two state employees. For example, they're about 3 billion, that's almost the amount you're going to borrow, they didn't add up to the budget, even though they didn't have 100 percent of what they had to calculate. So where is the reason why they're acting like this with a mass of Mercedes and not paying for the budget? That's one side. And the other side is the same reason. The media announced yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u53	Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u54	I already gave you half. The other half.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u55	It's been a minute, second minute's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u56	You took just as much from me as I did. This is a violation of the criminal case against the Ministry of Finance and some other organizations that violated the prosecutor’s office and announced to the media yesterday that money was being misused by the state. Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u57	As for paying taxes to NAC Naftogaz, Energoatom. In general, the government has done everything possible to increase the revenue from these organizations. However, the real situation of the accounts, especially the consumer and the financial situation of today has not enabled the full payment to be paid to the budget. There are different reasons, I don't want to go into the details right now, maybe this is the very subject of the budget implementation issue, and let's report it when we report on the implementation of the budget this year, but in general what the government has been using, they are marginally possible. With regard to further improvements in payments, the government, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration works today, but unfortunately, let's say, it's not possible to apply to NAC Naftogaz all the forms of compulsory tax collection that can be applied to others, because of the specificity of the product that this enterprise releases. So I'm going to take your point about the growth of the wetlands, but let's actually look at the things that. So in a month, we can't fix this, and the budget needs to be done. As for the second question, I honestly can't comment on yesterday's news agencies. Obviously, with this, you need to, well, see in more detail the materials that are there. But I want to assure you that, well, the Ministry of Finance in its work does not allow the same things that were announced yesterday. And in particular, you have to look at the materials and look at them specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, just sit tight. Please, National Deputy Assadchev of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Budget Affairs has considered the bill to the government and wishes to report on the following. This year, there was a gross violation of the legislation on the budget system, on the budget and government, in spite of the Budget Act, as early as the first half of this year, 1.7 billion were cut off from the budget's income and was calculated for external debts, which he had no right to do, because the budget was deficit, not surplus. So he created an artificial surplus. He did not address the Supreme Council as to what he would do. If he did that in the first half of the year, believe me, the Supreme Council might have found a better or wise solution to this problem. This did not happen, the government probably thought it would catch up with this surplus over the course of the year, nor did it happen. And at the end of the year, the government came with a huge, actually, sequester. Who saw the findings of the Court of Auditors yesterday and looked at the implementation of the budget from nine months this year, there you saw that the cost of the Sequestre was nearly 5 billion. 28 billion. - it was supposed to be done, 23 did everything. Of course, half of them are social. So half of them are the ones that are going to be on loan. What does the government offer? The government now proposes to increase government debt, that is, to settle the issue through debt. Two-and-a-half billion. In fact, borrow from the internal market. So let's think about in today's situation, what percentages, and what tools can the government take on these borrowings? No one will even give him a long term, nor will they give him a medium term. Banks are just going to take advantage of that. What percentages they're going to take -- we don't know either. And the government doesn't tell us what kind of tools he's going to borrow. So if we make that decision, in exactly three, well, at most, six months, we're actually going to create some debt pyramid that's going to be back on the 2003 budget. Both the debt and the interest on that debt will have to be paid. Of course, the committee can't actually put the government's calculations on, if you'll excuse me, the entire population of Ukraine. So the committee disagreed with that approach. The only thing we've suggested is that if the government wants to take and increase their internal debt, let it reduce their external debt. So the total amount of debt should not go up. And I also want to say. I believe that in this situation, of course, we will not fix it this year, nor do we need to make a pyramid of debt; we have already lived with you in these pyramids. And we just need to take a closer look at the new privatization programme that we're going to consider, remove all the obstacles to this privatization process, and I think that, of course, asset alienation can greatly improve the situation, including in the budget already in 2003. In my view and in the view of many of the economists we've been talking to, this is the most reliable and best option. If we're going to the debt pyramid right now, believe me, ever, and I think it's going to go really fast, probably in 2003 it's just going to pop. And that's why we think we need to reject the government's bill. At best, you can accept the proposal proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Questions, not to increase the total amount of debt, but to reduce the amount of external debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for a coconspirator? Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Please put a name list on the board. Sergey Doroguntsov, faction of the Communists of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u61	Dear Valery Mikhailovich! Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please tell me, how is the budget being implemented this year in part to pay off the debt owed to your own people in the amount of 138 billion dollars already counted, although not given up, but about that amount, and how is the obligation to pay off the so-called medium term debt to those who can support the budget through securities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u62	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich, for asking. I understand that you're referring to debt to the people as an undervalued $132 billion savings, if I'm not mistaken. You know, in 2002, only 500 million was planned to pay off, that's a totally small amount, and of course, we're not going to solve this problem with such small amounts. Although I am deeply convinced that we must deal with this problem radically. Because even from an economic point of view, giving money to citizens is economically advantageous, it's even, you could say, one of the most economically advantageous investments. Because it's going to start moving funds, moving funds, and so on, you know, it's kind of an economic engine. Regrettably, the government has not been working on this problem. It is, indeed, serious, and we need to work hard on it. But the fact is a fact. As they fulfilled their budget, they fulfilled their obligations to the Ukrainian people, sadly. That is the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u63	National Deputy Kachur, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u64	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Valeriy Mihajlovich, well, they have traditionally referred to the fact that privatization is not carried out and cannot be carried out. And this has already become a tradition in the government. I want to remind you that this has not always been the case. When the government was privatizing, the planned indicators were carried out. In particular, I want to remind you that in 2001 it was only four months before privatization was over two billion dollars. Now, here's to the essence of this question. You've actually rightly noticed that the government today, going to artificial surpluses, has done things, well, for financing are practically catastrophic. Individual articles are funded at 9 months only 40 percent before the 9 - month plan, not before the year’s plan, but before the 9 - month plan. That's why I have a question. Would it not be so that by agreeing to borrow now, we will lead to the fact that the formal sequester will not take place, and in fact it will take place? Articles will not be funded; social articles are not traditionally financed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u65	Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Paul Stepanovich, distinguished colleagues. In fact, we can actually say that social articles will not be funded. There's not going to be a de jure sequencer. I am deeply convinced that the Supreme Council will never vote on it, and the government does not. But there's actually going to be a big, huge, even, I want to say, creditors' debt, especially on all social payments. As I said in principle, this may be the subject of a separate discussion at the third reading of the 2003 budget. But I'm deeply convinced that it can and is much better to go through privatization, alienation of assets than to take on the big debt commitments that will need to be made in three months, six months from now, to be paid back in full and with interest. In my opinion, this is going to be the exact wrong way.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u67	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear Valery Mikhailovich, I have three questions for you. Question one. We're looking for money today, in the budget, we've put an estimate of 5.6 bracelets against the dollar. To date, we have 5.3 in fact. 60 per cent of GDP is exports. If we take the machine, if we make it, I think we're just gonna go out on the amounts we're talking about today. That's the first question. Question two. Don't you think, as a member of the budget committee, that we made a mistake in adopting the budget code? Local budgets are now being met by a hundred per cent. We cannot implement the central budget, that is, we do not have, we have not created incentives to enable local authorities to implement the central budget. And last but not least, a prosaic question. Is that your prognosis? To what extent will social benefits be implemented, i.e. subsidies that today must be placed on the ground to address the problems of the poor in the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. They're very professional. I'll start with the Budget Code. You know, I've probably been one of the few people who made a strong statement against the Budget Code. Moreover, I introduced my version of the Budget Code, an alternative. Sadly, though, the Supreme Council did not listen to him. And local budgets have always adjusted their budgets for years. And I fully agree that some of the government's incomes must be tied up here in order for this to be a shared interest of both the state and the local budgets in the implementation of these taxes. That's the first one. As for that, you say we have deflation. Yeah, deflation. But it has a bearing on the reduction in debt service. That's true. But if you see the revenue figures of the budget, let's say the income tax is almost two and a half billion unsurpassed. So, believe me, it's not gonna cover up any credit for servicing the debt. And if you add 4.5 billion deficits here, the source of which was privatization, and actually it's done somewhere, I think to a billion, it's just not realistic. Of course, this source is certain, as it were, where overlaps can be made, that's not the amount. It could be 500 to 600 million, and there's actually billions of unsurpassed. And the third question you asked is incentives. You know, we're in the 2003 budget project for the first time setting up an incentive or a government tool, like working with state-owned, corporate enterprises. It turns out that the total profit of such enterprises is almost 11 billion dollars. We're practically not working with the managers of these companies, we're practically not looking at their gross costs, where these gross costs go, where they go, where they go, and why they go for these expenses. Although the state itself owns these enterprises. It seems to me that if the government were to work on this subject, at least, and the Business Act in Ukraine gave him this right, believe me, there would be no such sequester this year. Even in this regard, the government was virtually out of work. This is just one example.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u70	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Time's up. Dear colleagues! Reports and reports completed. No one signed up for the show. Then we'll assume that we've discussed this. Yeah? The Supreme Council, turn on the microphone Tsakchenka Alexander Mikolayovich. Then Lucenko. And if you'll excuse me, I'll read this information for meditation. On November 24, the Polish Federation adopted the country’s 2003 budget. The cost of the budget is $47 billion, $37 billion in revenue, $9.6 billion in budget deficit. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko. Then Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich, just in unison, read out the Polish budget of $37 billion and our budget of $8.6 billion. Poland and Ukraine certainly know the ratio both in the territory and in the population. But I wanted to ask Assadchev a question, but he didn't say it was time. By 1990, by 1991, the ratio between the wafer inside product and the budget was 1 to 3. Today, the ratio between the rolling internal product and the filling of budget 1 to 5.5. Who, then, does this money remain with if we are looking for it? I want Assadchev to answer, he understands that question, and it would become clear that today we could increase the budget by at least 2 or 2.5 times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u72	National MP Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! I think we are now witnessing an attempt by the government to escape responsibility for the budget failure and try to transfer its responsibility to Parliament. Well, it's going to look like this. We suggested a mechanism. Parliament did not support us, so let all pensioners, single mothers and so on complain about poor parliamentarians. In addition, Minfin is obviously very eager to restore the old times -- the PDP pyramids that have led to the collapse of the Ukrainian economy and want to re-increas at some of these costs. Question three. I never heard from a government official who would personally be responsible for the budget failure. Did he resign the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for failing to do so? Did Yusko resign for failure of the budget? Did the esteemed deputy secretary of state who informed us from the rostrum about the budget failure? Unfortunately, there is no such thing. That's why I think, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that all deputies, not just our factions, but we definitely need this in order to make an informed decision, as a minimum, information on the implementation of the budget articles as a percentage of the funding of the President's Administration and the Kabmin, and how few of the people are protected through subsidies. Then we will draw conclusions on the effectiveness of Minfin's activities, the government, as well as the methods that they suggested as if they were going to come out of the crisis with the very artificial and created ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u75	Taking this opportunity, Vladimir Mikhailovich would like to consider this a reference to you as a protocol commission, and ask the Court of Auditors to verify the efficiency of using budgeted funds to develop agricultural techniques and partially offset the cost of technology. As far as I know, these funds are not used for the purpose, but MinAPC is transferred to other articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u76	I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. National deputy Yavorowski and Assadchev
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u77	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina Dear Head, honourable parliamentarians! I would very much hate for this question that we are discussing today to be so orderly and inconceivable. No one's signed up for the show. This suggests that it is either a funny question or no one wants to talk about it, or it is so serious that we are not ready to talk about it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the situation is this: the press says that the new government will withdraw the budget at all. I can't even understand what I'm doing as a deputy right now and what I'm doing. Some kind of monkey job, we're trying to fix some terrible failures and holes in the work of the previous government today, and we don't know what's going to happen to the budget tomorrow. The second question. We keep blowing our cheeks that we're gonna cover some holes in the budget through privatization. For many years now, all of this has failed completely. So I'm already, and sometimes I think, and maybe we should pass a law that during this mythical, purely Ukrainian privatization, that we should either be among those bribes that go there, some state accounts, whatever it is, whatever it is we're going to cover up. Because, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am simply asking you very much as Head of the Supreme Council, take these processes under our control on our behalf. Will the budget be called off or not? Will we follow the work done by the committee? Well, there's something I need to find out, because for another year, we're just gonna get stitched up, you know? Once again, we blindly vote for the budget, and Ukraine will never get out of this terrible track that it's been in for 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u78	Thank you. National Deputy Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Alexander Mikolayovich, you know you're not just right about your question, you're absolutely right. But the thing is, the redistribution of the percentage of gross domestic product in favour of the budget has to be taken into account that we have, in fact, about 25 percent today is very, very little, but where else is the fraction? Does our tax law allow her to have it? Yes, it does. Is it possible to have, as you said, perhaps even more than 30 percent? Yes, it does. Where did it go? First, in tax holes. So the same VAT, you know what shadow we're sitting in today. Same customs: when they drive, they just give, excuse me, cash, and then it all goes to market at the dumping price. According to state enterprises, I told you today what the profit of the state monopoly is. We're practically not working with this, and we're not removing this revenue, at least a fraction, into the budget. These are all holes. That's the first one. And the second is a shadow hole that also reduces the reallocation of the gross product in favour of the budget. Of course, if this is a matter for both the government and parliament, of course, we can actually redistribute the gross domestic product more than 30 percent, but it has to be done. In fact, government and government are doing more than just making holes. So we have this redistribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will conclude our consideration of this matter. With regard to the decision, we will be determined in the vote, taking into account the discussion that took place. A replica? Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u81	I'm absolutely satisfied with the answer. Absolutely. So you and I can see where the national money is. So we see who's running the state then, knowing all of these positions that are listed in the schematics of Assadchev. So let's probably ask the President and the government that turned the same upside down today. Yesterday they were compromised, today they're already vice-premiers. They were released yesterday from the ministers, today the vice-premiers became. You can't do that either. Let's say that most of us have already chosen a leader, let's probably ask how they should put in a new budget, and the budget, I understand, will be new, let's not put in a budget of 8.6 billion. At least $17 to $18 billion. And then, they say, we vote -- and most of it, and the minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u82	Thank you. Regarding the considerations expressed by the Yavorowski People’s Deputy regarding the withdrawal of the budget. Dear colleagues, according to the Budget Code, the budget cannot be called off; it can only be deferred to a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers, but this will be a violation of the Budget Code. I think that's the position we should be standing in. That's the first one. The other one. We should probably. Looking for an opportunity to fill the income part of the budget. And the third. I was surprised to read in the information reports that the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine considered the Supreme Council's decision to adopt the State Budget for 2003 as a second reading that contradicted the Constitution of Ukraine and the procedural norms of the Budget Code. At least I have two questions to ask the Ministry. The first thing I think you can do is exchange information not through the press, you can go to the Supreme Council's leadership right now, the more you're not here to share notes with the press and involve society in our internal affairs. The second question I have is, who gave the Ministry of Justice the right to interpret the Supreme Council's decision? There must be a Constitutional Court. And I think we should work as state authorities as the only government. [[Applause]] I, my dear colleagues, do not say that to please you, but that we must move as much as the legislative body needs. I've already said, and I want to emphasize once again, if we have a revenue portion of 2 billion budgets, we're going to be reasonably dividing 2 billion. We need to look for ways to increase this budget, taking into account the social processes that are taking place in the country, and let us move this way. As to whether the government would offer to postpone our consideration, I had a conversation with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And there are now intensive consultations with the First Deputy Prime Minister of the Budget Committee in order to reach a single position. I think the best way to do that is to look for the legislative decisions that we have to make to make the budget real. That's all there is to it. I'm sure in the session room we don't vote down the income section anymore, it's going to be hard to get people's deputies to do it. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the subject of stealing our meetings. I'm announcing a draft Ukrainian Penal Enforcement Code. The reporter is National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, who is the author of this bill. The committee proposes the following rules: five minutes for the report, five minutes for the answers to questions, five minutes for the co-rapporteur, five minutes for the interview, and five minutes for the interview. 25 minutes. Signed by the profile committee, the manager. Up to seven, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, Our Non-Criminal Ukraine, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. On April 5, 2001, you and I adopted this new Criminal Code, which is now defined by the Council of Europe as one of the model documents adopted in an independent Ukraine. At the same time, the penalties imposed there did not find their proper reflection, and it was still impossible to beat the Penal Enforcement Code. That's why we, Yuri Karmazin, the national deputy of four appeals by Alexander Markovich Bandurka, were introduced by us and the Department of Execution, with a group of scientists, a draft of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code. I would also like to thank the head of the Department, the Department of State for the execution of the sentences of Volodymyr Anatoliyevich and the former head of Stanko Ivan Vasilwich, as well as a number of authors: both Sagittarius Eugene Lvivitch and Sevastinov, Trubnik, Palija, Farinyuk, Osaulenka, Varnajski, Homich -- who have taken an active part in the development of this very important document. This project is based on international standards for the treatment of prisoners, international treaties for the protection of human rights and freedoms, the concept of reform of the criminal justice system in Ukraine, approved by a government decree of July 11, 1991. It is based on the new Criminal Code. We were aligning the standards with that project that is currently being prepared before the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code, with other valid laws. We have maintained those standards of effective labour law that have been adopted in recent years and have justified ourselves in practice. In preparation, the goal was to create a single law that regulated all forms of punishment provided for in the Criminal Code. That's not what it used to be. This project is more modern, real and is in line with international standards, and it has undergone international expertise. It consists of two parts - General and Special. The General Part identifies basic provisions regarding the general principles of execution and punishment, the legal status of the convicted, the types of organs and the administration and control of their activities. In the Special Section, there is a specific order and conditions for the execution and execution of criminal penalties, the basis and order of release from the commission of punishment, the exercise of control and the supervision of persons released from places of deprivation of liberty, and also of persons released from the commission of trial. The draft Code implements well-known conceptual provisions on democratization, humanization, differentiation and individualization of the execution of criminal penalties, taking into account the current achievements of psychology and pedagogy. The draft Code was based on the priority of general human rights and freedoms, the establishment of a system of social and legal guarantees that ensure the legal status of the convicted, the order and conditions of punishment in accordance with public standards, while preserving those achievements of a system of executions that have been positively recommended. The project has a real and clear purpose and mission of criminal enforcement legislation that uses it to protect the interests of the person, society and the state by creating conditions for the correction and resocialization of convicted persons, preventing the commission of new crimes by both convicted persons and others. For the first time, the law defines the general and sectoral specific principles of criminal law enforcement. It is the irreversibility of execution and punishment, the rule of law, justice, humanism, democracy, the equality of those condemned before the law. We have taken into account the position regarding the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen, respect for the honor and dignity of the condemned. And that's very important, because today there are over two hundred thousand convicted. It is important to set up for those who are sentenced to be deprived of the will of the progressive system of punishment, a step - by - step change in the conditions of punishment, the application of the benefits, including the improvement of the conditions of detention, replaced by the resulting part of the punishment with a softer-term release. In principle, the new system of the colony’s structural divisions is designed to change the conditions of punishment for those sentenced to be deprived of their liberty. A new approach to the distribution of sentenced persons is envisaged. This question will be decided solely on the basis of a judgment of the court of the classification of convicted persons, taking into account the nature of the social danger of the crime committed. In principle, it is new to classify institutions for the execution of sentences. Now it's going to be predicted at the level of danger: the minimum, the average and the maximum, and for those condemned to the limitations of the will of the criminal-executive institution of the open-ended type. Convicted minors will be punished in special disciplines. The new is also the definition of the order and conditions of execution and punishment in the form of depriving military, special rank, rank, rank or qualification class, service restrictions for military personnel, public works, and the rest of them the restriction of will, the permanent deprivation of liberty. The colonies have introduced new democratic advisory bodies, the board of correctional colonies, and in correctional colonies, the pedagogical council, which have to make collective decisions on the most gross issues, change conditions, hold convicts, and apply the means of encouragement and solicitation to them. Real humanism fills with articles in the draft Code that regulate punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty for convicted women, especially pregnant women, women who have children and juvenile convicts. At the same time, we are predicting the establishment of colonic units of enhanced control to maintain persons who have shown a high degree of socio-pedagogical neglect, the drive to continue illegal behavior, and have not shown a willingness to self-directed socionormal behaviour. The draft Code also provides for the execution of penalties for all individual types of punishment. We are very pleased with our cooperation with the committee and we express our sincere thanks to the Supreme Council's apparatus, particularly the Nakove experts' office, which has made substantive remarks that we have taken into account, and then we've submitted a project to replace the one given with those additions. Thank you. I introduced the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u84	Any questions for our colleague? Is it? Please sign up, five minutes to ask. On the board, please. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Next Solomon, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u85	Dear reporter! The criminal case is certainly progressing in Ukraine. And how much will we need to increase the penalties for crimes if the dynamics that exist today continue? And for example, by 2010, how do you predict an increase in the number of punishments and places of punishment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u86	I thank you for the deep question. It's actually very serious. As long as we don't solve the socio-economic problems that are in society, it's going to be hard to answer that question clearly. In one thing, I'm sure most of those spoken of today at the time of the adoption of the budget law have to switch places with those who are there. And we will increase our seats only to those condemned to eternal willlessness. You realize that this process is hard to calculate, but in any case, the number of crimes depends on the socioeconomic situation, not just on the level of crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u87	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u88	Thank you. Thank you very much. Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, please tell me two small questions. First. Would your codex, which we are considering, contribute to an increase in the number of convicts and thus to the victory of the highest authority in the next presidential election? Because, as we know, all the convicts vote for him. And the second. You said we now have over 200,000 convicts. What if we take more of those awaiting trial, how many of us are in prison? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u89	In all, we have a slightly different number in prison, Your Honor Sergey Ivanovich, but it is balanced at 220 thousand, that is, in terms of investigative isolations. And the Penal Enforcement Code speaks only of the order of execution, it leads to logic, to compliance with the Criminal Code and so on. So it's a procedural code of nature, it won't in itself increase the number of convicts. As for not voting in the same way as you say, for the first time, public control is provided in article 23 of the Code. The second article states that without special permission to visit correctional institutions, they have the right to exercise control of the President, the Prime Minister, the Authorized Supreme Council, the Chief of the Council of Ministers of Crimea, the heads of the local authorities, the national deputies, and the deputies authorized by the Supreme Council of Crimea, the Attorney General, the heads of local councils in the territory of which they are located. So we're getting absolutely close to European standards and we're getting away from the totalitarian practice that was. If there was this codex, what was in these or 1999 elections, there would be no.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u90	People's MP Chelnokov, Communist faction. He's giving up the word. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u92	The First Deputy Head of the Committee is invited to the rostrum, the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legal Protection, Alexander Markovich Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u93	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, which is presented for your consideration, is designed to take into account international standards for the treatment of prisoners, international treaties for the protection of human rights and freedoms, the concept of criminal justice reform in Ukraine, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine five years ago. Indeed, the adoption of such a code, I can exaggerately argue, will be a breakthrough in the organization of execution of penalties at the level of European standards and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Codex project consists of two parts -- a general one and a special one. The General Part identifies basic provisions regarding the general principles of execution, punishment, the legal position of the convicted, the types of organs, the execution of sentences, and the control of their activities. The Special Section sets out the order and conditions for the execution and execution of criminal punishments, the basis and order of release from punishment, the exercise of control and the supervision of persons released from places of deprivation of liberty, as well as persons released from trial. We've been trying to implement the popular concepts of democratization, humanization, differentiation and individualization of criminal punishment, taking into account the current achievements of psychology and pedagogy. At the same time, there is an increase in the severity of punishment by people, criminals who have committed especially serious crimes. It is important to set up for those who are sentenced to be deprived of the will of the progressive system of punishment, a step - by - step change in the conditions of punishment, the application of benefits, including improved maintenance conditions, the replacement of an unspent portion of punishment with a softer, conditionally permanent release. In principle, the new system of the colony’s structural divisions is designed to change the conditions of punishment for those sentenced to be deprived of their liberty. The draft Code provides for a new approach to the distribution of sentenced persons. This question will be settled on the basis of a verdict for classifying convicted persons who take into account the nature and social dangers of the crime committed. The new bill defines the order and conditions of execution and execution of penalties in the form of the removal of military, special rank, rank, rank or qualification class, the service restrictions that the first reporter spoke of. Further development has been made in terms of humanizing the punishment regime, improving socio-economic security, providing medical care to the convicts, bringing them into line with the current requirements of working conditions and paying them. A specific content is the organization of educational influence on convicts, the work with which parents, other close relatives, representatives of public and religious organizations, charitable funds, and just authoritative influential people are involved. The colony has introduced new democratic advisory bodies, the board of correctional colonies, and the educational council, which have to make collective decisions on the most important issues of changing the conditions for the detention of convicts, as well as applying incentives and inducements to them. The draft Code of Criminal Enforcement was also discussed at a joint meeting of the Committees on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and the Committee on Law Enforcement, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, in other law enforcement agencies, he found support. We've been looking at three projects before, and we've come up with the one you're proposing. We ask you to support the project in the first reading, considering that there will be your comments and wishes that can be taken into account by preparing the codex for consideration in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u94	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Sign up and explain. Let me explain. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Markovich! Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please tell me, do you know this well, how many do we have in prisons in any foster care facility with tuberculosis and other terrible diseases, at least for tuberculosis?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u96	Thank you. In total, 232,000 prisoners are being punished today. Well, a member of the Department can say punishment even today. Tuberculosis is found in specially separated wards or in special treatment colonies. I think there were about 8,000 of them. Then this, well, figure changed, because some of them were just freed from the disease. What I'm saying is, if it were free, maybe it sounded like a paradox, this category was given as much attention as in correctional colonies, some treatment would go better. Since I had recently been in such a colony, I personally found that they were provided by medicines and medical personnel. Sadly, though, you know that this is a problem of a social nature, not a problem of correctional institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u97	National MP Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u98	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you a question. I've seen this project. There is an increase in the size of the area held in the correctional facility. And given that the colonies are now overcrowded, can you tell us what you see as an expert: what, if we do this law, if we adopt it, do we need to build just as many areas of correctional colonies instead of housing? Or perhaps it is necessary to adopt either a legislative act or to refer to the Supreme Council and the President for amnesty and special funding for the treatment of this particular category of TB patients. Well, that's a shame. 32 thousand. There are patients in the local area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u99	Thank you. The question is correct. Actually, the Ukrainian people could have done without prisons and without correctional agencies. We once had 288, and they had 560 thousand. A man. It's except for the special commands. Well, older people who do farming or construction know what it is. Colonies, settlements, chemicals, and so forth. Today, we have less than twice our size, and we have 144 correctional facilities somewhere. Maybe I'm wrong about a few things, maybe they can clarify that. In general, we are going to reduce the number of prisoners who are sentenced to prison by introducing new types of non-custodial punishment -- public works, fines, conditional sentences. In general, we do not need to build or expand colonies with the adoption of this law. And the fact that we need to fund them better is, of course, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u100	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u101	Mr. Ambassador General, I would call you that, and I keep thinking about that question. We have in Montenegro one colony where there are penalties for high-ranking militia acts, there, and so forth. Well, I know, I know. He had as a national deputy. Do you not have information? We may not be ready, and intuition and common sense indicate that soon there may be a large body of high - ranking officials in prisons. Are we ready for this action, as you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u102	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, high-ranking, you say, militia acts are serving the same punishment as all other Ukrainian citizens, on the same grounds. In fact, there is a colony in Chernigiv district where 510 former law enforcement officials are serving sentences today. I don't think we're gonna need it. On the contrary, we clean up the ranks of law enforcement agencies so that there are as few as possible candidates for places of imprisonment. Today is a special operation called Clean Hands, which is good at promoting preventive work. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u103	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. The report is closed and the discussion is closed. The decision will take place on Thursday. The draft Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies is being announced for consideration of the reduced procedure, a new edition. Please. We finished the discussion. We're moving on to the next question. This question is over. So 1017-2 is a draft of the Ukrainian People's Deputies Act, a new edition. The committee proposes the following procedure. For the report, 20 minutes. For the co-report, 10 minutes, and for the answer, 5 minutes. The reporter is Gavrís Stepan Bogdanovich. And Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich. Dear friends, we have an urgent discussion, a 1284 hour speech in the past. They insist on discussing it. Please explain to me who signed up for the last question - 1284, please explain. Sergeant Sergey Ivanovich, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs who listen to the projects in good faith and will not play a decisive role tomorrow, when there is a vote, those who will vote don't know what's going on here, except on the radio. I'd like to say the following. Back in school, I was taught that in a bourgeois society, in a bourgeois state, and more in the world, and now we're joining up as we stole a loaf of bread -- in prison, like a million people stole, go to the ministers. You know, I'm convinced now that it's true. And I would like to say that I will support the project that was proposed here today in relation to the Criminal Correctional Code, essentially a code that is procedural. But that's the question I'm worried about. Two young people under the age of 30 in Hotov were cut off by an aluminium cable that was 85 feet [11 m] long, and note 85 bracelets. [[This is a specific example.]] The district court gave them the measure of imprisonment for six years in the camps of the strict regime. People are good for 85 bucks. The damage was, in fact, inflicted on the guard’s face, and they paid a thousand dollars for it. How can we be condemned to such a degree of punishment? They will eat more than 85 bracelets a hundred times in prison. And where he didn't go, you can't find any advice or any truth. I've already taken care of one of them, counting on our humanity. He even approached the President, and while this was happening, a 27-year-old boy who was on condition of being guilty, who, in fact, was not guilty of anything, died of tuberculosis. That's why I asked today. People are good! We need to move on to other means of crossing or warning violations, or punishment, to act more economically. Let them pay not a thousand dollars for this aluminum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u105	Finish up. Dear colleagues! A review of the Ukrainian Criminal Code has been completed. As for the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote, or tomorrow. Dear colleagues! I'm announcing a draft law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. [[new editor]] There is such an offer. We have two reporters, one co-reporter. The total is 45 minutes per 15 minutes for the interviewer's answer and 15 minutes for the interviewer's report and the answer to the question for the co-rapporteur. We agreed on an agreement board that we would listen to this issue in an informative way and not discuss it. A total of 45 minutes. Please, calm down. If you want another procedure, let's vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't want to, but according to the Rules it's supposed to be 45 minutes for any question. So I tell you again, 7 minutes on average every reporter speaks, then answers the question. And so comes the co-reporter. From the procedure of the People’s Deputy of Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u106	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, an extremely important question that is of great interest to both politicians and the people today. There is a procedure defined by the Rules. If you want to change it, you have to vote in favour of changing the procedure, not the way you say it. So I suggest that if there is a decision by the Conciliation Board, you put it to the vote. If the Supreme Council votes in favour of a change of procedure, then it will be as decided by the Conciliation Council. If this is not the case, the Rules should be discussed, as provided for by the Supreme Council Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u107	Colleagues, so that we don't get into long conversations right now, we'll go according to the Rules. The question is set at 45 minutes. So what I'm saying is, five minutes -- every reporter and co-reporter speak, five minutes answer the question, and 15 minutes answer the question. Is there no objection? Then that's how we do it. Besides, I suggest you don't take a break and work. Is there no objection? All right, 45 minutes to deal with this. National MP Klukkowski, please. Turn on the microphone of Klukkowski, the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u108	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we can do it at all - without talking about putting it to a vote tomorrow. We can talk at all without a report, we can do anything, but there is a Rules. And if you want to listen to the report, you don't have to turn it into a circus. Because from such a difficult question, five minutes is not a conversation. Let us approach, if the matter is serious, seriously; and if it is not necessary, let us remove it from consideration. Because to transform the issue of elections, or the realization of the constitutional rights of the people into such a thing, you see, by going through a ceremony, it really doesn't do the honors and parliaments.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u109	What's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u110	Under the Rules, at least 10 minutes to report, and all the rest, let's get out of here as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u111	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u112	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! We, I just want to go back to what we are discussing at this session, and we have given our colleagues the opportunity to finalize these bills, so the logic of my reasoning coincides with what Vladimir Mihajlovich proposed. Let us give the rapporteurs the greatest opportunity to report on this issue, to ask questions of answers, not to hold discussions. I signed up for the discussion, but I propose to all those who sign up for the discussion, I think we will not change our position. Let us take a closer look at this issue so that tomorrow we can decide by vote, since we have already discussed these two bills once. They've finished them. We will simply clarify some of the nuances that have been identified in the finalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u113	People's deputy Matvienko. People's deputy Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u114	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we're wasting time on the procedure, we're done with this. Seven minutes, we agreed, the reporter will report, and eight minutes will answer the question. After that, the report is five minutes and five minutes, the answer to the question. Three speakers were enrolled. Let's let them speak, and we would have finished this question a long time ago, we're now discussing, I think it's irrelevant. Let us consider the question. Put the risk below the entries and consider the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u115	I'm announcing a draft Act on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[new editor]] Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish Prepare Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. I ask you, within 15 minutes, questions and reports are limited.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u116	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! The electoral model of democracy is the state of political life, by which the state authority is exercised on the basis of the principles of the broad and real participation of citizens, their unity in the formation of state policies by the formation of higher authorities and the observance of fundamental civil and political rights. The experience of many nations in the world shows that one of the central places in political processes between civil society and the state has problems in creating electoral legislation, an adequate state of social relations. This experience is not unique in determining the optimal type of electoral system and belongs to the nation. However, for post-socialist countries, the dominant trend is to move from majority systems to proportional or mixed electoral systems. For 80-90 years, almost all of these countries have passed new electoral laws. From the former socialist countries of Bulgaria, Bosnia, Herzegovina, Estonia, Latvia, Moldova, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia have proportional systems. Of the 15 member states of the EU, there are proportional systems in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Holland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Finland, Sweden, and elections on a proportional basis are held in multi-managing constituencies. There are mixed electoral systems in several countries. This is Greece, Italy, FERN. But the proportional choices are also taking place in a number of multi-mandate regional districts. The existing mixed electoral system in Ukraine has a series, from our point of view, of major shortcomings. In particular, it does not contribute to, firstly, the real political structure of Parliament. Rather, parties of a parliamentary type are mainly elected by parties and political groups, representatives of financial and industrial groups or circles or executive authorities. The other one. It unobjectively reflects the preferences of voters because of the existence of a proportional electoral component of a rigid type. In the case of a closed list of voters who are deprived of the opportunity to make the election directly for candidates in the national parliament, the principle of direct electoral law is nullified, and there is no real connection with the electorate. Third. It gives you the ability to use an administrative resource that distorts the results of citizens' will. Four. It does not match the world’s trends in the evolution of electoral systems in the direction of increasing the proportional component. It facilitates the passage to Parliament of small and often political marginal politicians who use the ranking of the leader of the electoral list or the direct resources of the executive branch. Finally, the direct link between the electorate and the national MPs on the political party lists is lost. Appropriately, parties in parliament fail to implement their own electoral programmes, making it impossible for them to have any personal political responsibility to society, especially in the new parliamentary elections. We need to move to a model that suits national interests to the greatest extent. The Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the fourth vocation of 10 bills that envision a change in the existing electoral system. All available options are essentially the model of a proportional system to be selected - with a single multi-mandate district or with several regional districts with preferences or a rigid proportional selection system with closed lists? On the return of Ukraine to the majority system of the 1993 model, no one today insists not only on the session hall but also on political forces in the country. So now we have two basic concepts of election systems. The first refers to the introduction of the existing one in the mainstream mixed system of the model proportional system, and the second reflects the signs of European proportional electoral systems with a common personality and simplicity for the Ukrainian electorate. I am working with the Ukrainian National Deputies, Julius Yooffe and Gregory Dashutin, to draft a bill that is a compromise between the proportional and majority electoral systems that are implemented in an existing mixed system. This model is a classic proportional system used in European democracies. This law introduces a new system of election of Ukrainian national deputies, the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - 450 national deputies - Ukraine is elected for election lists of political parties in a state-wide multi-national constituency constituency on the basis of a proportional representation. For elections, Ukraine is divided into 450 technological district constituencies. Each political party, the subject of the electoral process, is drawing up a list of 450 authorized representatives of the national candidate party with a number of the technological district in which its representative will hold a pre-election campaign on behalf of the party. The right to distribute parliamentary mandates to those parties for which no less than 5 percent of voters on a national scale are devoted. The party’s mandates, which have not overcome the electoral barrier, are distributed in proportion to the winning party. In this case, support in the districts of the various parties that have not been given a mandate, but have received a significant result, will not be lost, and. synchronously correct party positions, taking into account the will and sympathy of citizens. The turnout of the MPs from the party list and the bloc is determined by a higher percentage of the voting party in the constituency, which is represented by a specific authorized party by a candidate in the MP compared to the result of the vote for the party in other constituencies. [[block]] [[block]] Thus, a large part of the shortcomings of the existing proportional electoral system will be removed because the candidate in the party list will be identified not before the elections, but by voting for a party by a constituency in the territorial districts. The advantages of the proposed model. First. A fairly rapid and real political structure of society is taking place, and the subject of the electoral process is exclusively a political party. During the election, there is a healthy domestic competition, and the electoral process will take place, based on the authority and influence of each candidate in the national parliament, who will be identified with a particular political party, its program. Political elites themselves will be the foundation of national political parties. There will be a road to parliament for unknown politicians who use election list leaders' ratings. Use of money, administrative resources, and other resources is no longer possible. Party factions in Parliament will be formed by parties that have a real national character. Thus, the election of the model will really lead to the creation of a parliamentary majority based on the winning parties in elections or coalitions. The other one. I'm done. The system will contribute to the characterisation of the election, and directly selectors will determine the composition of the passing part of the party list. This will allow the principle of direct electoral law, which is enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine, to be implemented and foresees that all Ukrainian national MPs are elected directly and individually by citizens. The opening of the elections will increase. Citizens will have the opportunity to make a free, conscious choice of a national party that will represent an authorized party. There will be a real opportunity to control the activities of the parties directly by the electorate. Third. One of the main advantages is the simplicity and clarity of use, the objectivity of the principles that determine winners. And the fourth is the introduction of this electoral model, which will facilitate the passage to Parliament of six powerful national political parties. These will be parties already ready to conduct a political dialogue, to make political covenants. It is also important to remember that there is no best electoral system, all of which are compromising decisions that result in a social balance. The electoral legislation that lays the foundation for the parliamentary process depends on both the ability of politicians to effectively represent the interests of citizens and the accountability of their electorate and the quality of the elections. Clearly, the debate on this issue is a general discussion about the political system reform in Ukraine, and it must be linked to its basic concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u117	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich. The report is complete. Any questions? There's a question. Please sign up. Let me explain. Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Stephen Bogdanovich, please tell me what you're predicting in your project is the impossibility of the process that took place in this Supreme Council, when the MPs for whom the people voted, I specifically call it, say, in the "Our Ukraine" bloc at Yulia Timoshenko, in the Communist Party have been tricked, forced to move to other factions, so today they don't represent the people who voted for them, and they keep the parliamentary mandates? In my view, it is immoral, it is unprincipled, it is disrespectful to the electorate and it is no longer an option at all. How do you propose to get out of this situation in this project? And how do you respond to this fact, what do you do with it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u119	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyevich, for the wonderful question. I'll call you at least four ingredients that will ensure sufficient openness, transparency of elections, and at the same time allow voters to freely make decisions about sympathy for one or the other political parties. The first and most important thing is that the model itself will initiate an organization in Ukraine or powerful parties, and the most powerful political blocs that will become already after the formation of a serious, political power that will prevent any influence, a serious influence by the state authorities, because this can lead to a major conflict in the next between the authorities and these political blocs that will win the elections. The other one. We're talking about political parties being forced to delegate to the lists of the most influential representatives, and generally the representatives from the regions, unlike the existing model, where this principle can practically fail. And so there's going to be an appropriate compromise between, in fact, political leaders, including those who influence the territory of one or the other constituencies, and an authority that can't be actively and so, let's say, responsiblely influence the election as it can be in another election system. Third. We changed a whole range of court procedures and introduced extremely serious control by political parties and, in fact, their representatives for the elections. So the whole series of novelties that we've proposed in this bill allows us to talk about that the next election will, of course, take place at a completely new, fundamentally different level where the administrative resource cannot be used. It should also be considered that these elections will take place after the change of political elites in Ukraine after the 2004 presidential election. And it's clear that there's going to be a new dialogue, actually in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u120	The People's Chamber of Clouds. Next Malinowski. The procedure is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u121	Julia Timoshenko's block, Cloud. Dear Stephen Bogdanovich! Please tell me that your law does not address this issue. If something happens to a candidate in the district, maybe it's different whether he's lost it or he's scared, in our democratic criminal state, it could be, what happens when the votes for the party and this district count? That's the first time. The second question. And don't you think that by tying individual personnel to the districts, that's how the majority system, which is convenient to our democratic criminal system, is to criminalize the election more? Do you agree with me or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u122	Thank you. The first is very simple because the law clearly states that in this case the matter is resolved by a party that submits a new candidate to the Central Electoral Commission under any circumstances that you have named, starting with our understandings and ending with, God forbid, tragic and this election committee makes changes to the electoral list. Or such questions are determined on the basis of a court’s decision. With regard to the second question, it is that we do not dare to call you the German electoral system major, calling it proportional or British, and we have just proposed a new step in the evolution of European electoral democracy when we propose not to bind candidates to the national MPs in terms of existing ties when they are followed by an imperial district. I mean, we think the imperial district can't be here, the county has a technological character, but we're tying the party to the electorate. The party will be obliged to work with its electorate on a permanent basis in order to ensure its next victory, as opposed to existing parties that have virtually forgotten for 4 years the existence of specific electorates, working, in fact, with political programs, political concepts here in Parliament. And we think it's in the best national interest, because in this case, political parties are becoming a driving national political force. It will bring the political majority to Parliament. It will lead to the power of a representative coalition government or a government of national trust. It is she who will determine her own President of the State in the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u123	National MP Mishur from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u124	Valerius Mishur, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I am addressing you, Alexander Alexiyovich, and in general those who will hold meetings. There is a suggestion to set rules not only for the person who asks questions but for the person who answers them. We've only got eight minutes. We've only asked two questions. I think you can ask a few questions and answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u125	I'm joining.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u126	I ask you to pay attention to everyone who makes the right observation. Deputy Malinovski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u127	Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Stephen Bogdanovich, I would definitely disagree with you on the point that list-holder deputies are losing contact with the electorate. On the contrary. I'd say even more work. For the sake of your question, please pass the word to Joseph of Wine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u128	Turn on Winsky's microphone, the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u129	Dear Stephen Bogdanovich, I'd like you to make it clear that proportional elections are elections when there's only a record of a political party or a political bloc, or should there be any names for a voter? That's the first one. Because I think that's the point. And the second. In my opinion, your law is technologically weaker than the law of Klukkowski. For example, give an answer, today we have two Kukobu and Kiwalov deputies who, in violation of the Constitution, take their place in the Supreme Council and the Central Election Commission gave them a mandate as a deputy, although they had no right to do so. Your law does not deny the very repetition of this atheism. And the next. I'm working with the electorate. By your scheme, if 20 people are selected from the party, like today in the faction of the Social Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, please finish!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u131	So 430 districts don't have to work there, because they're going to be fixed in a certain district. And this makes it worse to work with the electorate and to be accountable to the electorate in terms of what is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u132	I'm going to use Mishura's offer, I'm going to be fine. As for the first question, neither the first nor the second does match the concept of a proportional system, it has a completely different relationship. A proportional system means that we choose parties that have corresponding barriers to the higher authority. This is what happens in our case when we vote in favour of the party, and when the parentheses indicate that it is authorized, then we implement article 76 of the Constitution, which states that the electorate elects exactly 450 national MPs. The second question has nothing to do with the Electoral Law, it is provided for by the Constitution, in article 78, where it is prohibited to reconcile positions and to be in the public service of any national deputy, and this must be determined separately in the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. As for the third question, I think in this case this proportional system is making it impossible for the constituencies to be empty. The existing proportional model itself will lead to the fact that whole regions may not be present in Parliament. Ours will provide the maximum opportunity to delegate to the regions of its representatives, and there will be competitions for national programs, for a national idea, not for, excuse me, a transitional ideology that is forgotten the next day after the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u133	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich. The report and the answers to the questions have been completed. Once again, I will draw the attention of all the national MPs present to be more concise both in questions and in answers, since we have really not used the appropriate possibilities for answers. Jury Bogdanovich Klukkowski is invited to attend. He's proposing the next project. It's been seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u134	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I have the honour to present to you the draft Law on Elections of People’s Deputies, which has already been reported here in the main features, but the support base is expanding, and you can see that it is expanding around the deputies who are subject to the legislative initiative. Now to answer some of the questions that have been asked before, I want to say that this time one of the money in the Final Positions is that this bill comes into force on June 1, 2005. The introduction of such a position should respond to warnings that it could be used as a basis for a timely election. So I agree with the fact that the date of June 1, 2005 can be changed and the date of its introduction is moved somewhere in the autumn so that the temptations can not be used in the next election. So at least this one problem is off. Now let's get to the point. Reporting on electoral legislation here several times, I had the opportunity to say that every electoral law consists mainly of three chapters: the principles of electoral law, the electoral system, and the procedure. And that's why the principles that they should be implemented through the electoral system and the procedure are paramount. Each of these three parts is very responsible and very important. Realizing today that the attitude towards the electoral system here in the sessional room, largely formed, I will be addressing only those who still doubt who have not finally identified themselves, hoping that my arguments will be heard. Well first of all, I want to remind you that the principles of election should be general, direct, level, free and fair choices. And these standards are enshrined in international instruments that require their implementation in national legislation. It's these principles that I'm going to talk about later. But when we talk about the electoral system, I'm going to remind you that it's really a question of relevance and the question of political relevance, and that there really is no perfect political system. And Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish was right when he said that all of this was a matter of compromise. But compromise has to be made on some basis. So I'm going to ask you a few questions, answering which ones, we have to choose which election system we want. Well, first of all, does the deputy represent his electorate or represent the people? This issue was resolved in the constitutions of all the countries of the democratic world, and it was first resolved by the French Revolution of 1789, which eliminated the imperative mandate and stated: A member of the National Assembly represents the entire nation. The other one. The MP has the primary responsibility of caring for his district or legislative work? If we want to make a deputy, as it were, a parallel authority in our district, responsible for everything that goes on there, then maybe we don't need to develop local self-government, we don't need to appoint heads of district and district government. Let us put these duties on the deputy and let him handle it. But if his main work here, in the Supreme Council, is the legislative process, the representation of the interests of the people, let's say that the problems of the districts need to be solved through the organization of self - government, the establishment of order and the clear harmonization of the activities of local government administrations, and eventually the central authorities of executive power. Do we really want to develop political parties, or do we want to finally break them apart by burying them in the Ukrainian political system for a long time? And it's very easy to destroy them today, encouraging electoral legislation to be domestic, not inter-party competition. I want to tell you that there are political parties -- strong, developed, popular, authoritative -- in some ways the guarantee of democracy. If someone thinks that when 450 generals come here who are chosen not by the party, but because they voted in the districts, no matter what flag they stood for, but their choice is their own merit, and it's the parties that brought the votes, not their party, then after such elections the party will be gone for a long time, or there will be only those who are based not on the democratic structure at all and not on ideological unity, but on enough hard vertical pressure. Finally, the legitimacy of the final election. I emphasize once again, and I propose to the authors of the alternative bill to count by election this year, I emphasize once again, that there will be a typical situation where there will be a number of deputies from one district - 2-3, among them may not be the first one to win the elections in this district, and the result will be empty circles where no one will be elected. I'm not saying that it's bad, I'm saying that it's going to be completely incomprehensible to the electorate if we want them to understand who they're choosing and how they're choosing. All these shortcomings are devoid of the proportional system that is presented in the bill that I'm going to report here. I agree that we cannot talk about the stability of the electoral system today. In general, our state, our society is evolving, and that is why the electoral system is evolving. I'm sure this only state-owned district with a hard list is not the last word of electoral legislation in our country, it has to move on. But it must change so that it can benefit, not harm, society. And finally, I have to talk about the previous bill because I'm speaking after it. In election theory, there are two concepts: a unified electorate and a divided electorate. When a vote takes place in separate districts, it's a vote in a divided electorate. But no one has ever tried to apply the divided electorate by comparison, rather than by unifying the results of the vote. Comparisons between candidates in different districts are an essential, principled inequality of these candidates, and it is contrary to the principle of equal elections, and therefore contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to emphasize again. Each will decide according to his or her political preferences. I'd like to think very hard about where we want to bring both the electoral system and the party system and democracy in Ukraine. And last of all, my offer. I don't know if tomorrow's gonna be a decision. But I want to point out that decisions are made not only with regard to the electoral system, but also with regard to the procedural part. And the departure from the voting process and the establishment of voting results to the 1997 procedure from the 2002 procedure also speaks of something. My last offer. If no draft legislation is adopted in the first reading tomorrow, I think it is appropriate to have a serious discussion of the problem. And, of course, with the wide involvement of experts, it is not possible in a plenary meeting. That's why I have an offer. There's still time. Let's hold parliamentary hearings on this subject, where it will be really professional, non-political, with the involvement of different professionals, including outsiders, to discuss the issue of the electoral system, not just, as it were, a way of voting directly. Let's think about what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u135	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Please remain on the rostrum, Yuri Bogdanovich. Please sign up for the question. Let me explain. National MP Matvienko, European Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u136	Offered. National MP Matvienko, 66th constituency, National Economic and Development Party of Ukraine Group European Choice. The proposed project of a proportional system will certainly stimulate the development of political parties and the structure of political society. But do you not think that a purely proportional electoral system will reduce the personal responsibility of the national deputies to their electorate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u137	Thank you so much for the good question. I want to emphasize once again, the personal responsibility of the electorate has been little stimulated today. The party’s responsibilities to the electorate will be much more stimulated, and the party’s relationship with the electorate is much stronger. Because the party forces him to communicate with the electorate, it is a channel of communication between the party and the electorate, who is much more interested in the results of the next election than a single MP. So in fact, this proportional system will force the MPs to work with the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u138	National MP Malinovski, Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u139	Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. Yuri Bogdanovich, no doubt I personally support your bill, it is clear to me in this regard. For the sake of your question, please give the word to Joseph of Wine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u140	Microphone to Joseph Winski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u141	Given the special complexity and responsibility of this bill, I would like you to explain once again to the audience in the room, and to those who listen to us, what is the difference in voting the form of a ballot between a proportional system and a major system? Because there's a lot of confusion here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u142	Indeed, if you speak abstractly from these bills, there are many proportional systems. And among them are proportional systems that require a newsletter that is thicker than this book. Because there's all the lists and all the names. Of course, the main difference between the majority system and the majority system is that the majority system of voting takes place as a specific candidate, and the result of the distribution of votes depends solely on its personal outcome in this district. A proportional system means simultaneously choosing in one district of many candidates is a completely integral part of a proportional system, there is no point in taking a one-maned proportional system, and a proportional system provides for voting, first and foremost, for political parties or other major associations that represent certain political orientations. Such a vote may or may not be accompanied by, as it were, other candidates within these party lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u143	National Deputy Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u144	Thank you. National Deputy Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! I'm one of those who doesn't doubt the loyalty of the concept you're proposing. In this regard, I have two questions for you. First question. How do you think it is necessary today for Parliament to support the proposed bill tomorrow in the voting? And the second. How can we make sure that the capital in the next election of the national deputies is not able to take power because only the national choice has the right to form a representative branch of power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u145	People's Choice is the name of one of the MPs in our parliament. I don't know what kind of national choice you meant. Basically, it's a question. Is it clear that the voter’s will is reflected in the results of the distribution of mandates? The closer the system is to proportional, the more direct it is to express it. Can some large financial groups be affected by the results of the elections? This is not done in a legislative way. It's a question of social development. thoughts, social consciousness and values that are recognized by society, which cannot be established by law. This is the result of our evolution with you, from which, unfortunately, we have been rejected for almost a century. Hence, not everything can be decided by law or by more selective law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u146	National MP Yavorowski, please, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u147	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkva, Rava-Russka, Dubljana, Lvivščina. Dear reporter! Whether it was for despair or for the purpose of such an easy, soft provocation at the end, you said, "And if tomorrow none of these versions are voted on today, none of these novels are legal with regard to the electoral law, then we will do parliamentary readings, we will involve professionals!" That's how I liked it, and I even got the impression that you're a little bit of a self-believer that it might solve a question. You understand very well that there is no political will on the part of the President. By noon he wants to live by a mixed system, after lunch he wants to live by a proportional one. Until noon, live with "developed socialism," after lunch, with "undeveloped capitalism." Do you really believe that? Develop my doubts about you, a beautiful man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u148	I'm not going to do that at all from the Supreme Council's rostrum. Your will is to twist my tone as you wish and your will to think of everyone as you wish. You don't have to talk about it in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u149	Zarubinsky People's Deputy, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! I am a proponent of a proportional, really proportional election system, and therefore I do not accept the previous report’s claim that politicians do not know what is going on in a proportional system. I'd like to point out how many famous people are sitting in this room right now when the question is being considered and how many well-known politicians are participating in the legislative process, and Parliament is the legislative body. It's those who take it. Which is called unknown, let's say, politicians. But I have a question. As you do, your bill actually proposes a system of bound or closed lists. [[You're an expert, I understand that.]] A number of countries use a proportional system of free or solved, so to speak, lists when non-party management determines the numbering in the newsletter, and they determine who has more chances and who does less. Perhaps this is the way to avoid, let's say, unknown politicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u151	Thank you very much. The question is really very professional, but there are other questions. First of all, I'd like to point out that the concept of "known policy" is within the realm of law, just like "marginal." This is a way of assessing politics that is always going through a certain career in my life, and I do not know any politics that was known from the diapers of children. So the election to Parliament for many here is a very good way to become an influential and well-known politician, which in its region can be long gone, without conditions, even though having the right tasks. I think that those who speak of marginal politicians today have been and may someday become. As for selecting hard lists or open lists. It's a very good question and I'd love to have open lists, but first, there's a folklore around them. In fact, open lists do not mean that the electorate has to name all the candidates he wants. And so very often, on the open list, not all the preferences are chosen and the hard list is still active. Secondly, voting for the open list system really requires a very large ballot, even if the list consists of 20 to 30 names and requires a high culture and the electorate itself, and a high culture of those who run the vote. We can't do that night's vote count today. Filling out such a ballot will require a few minutes, not 30 seconds, but more than 30 seconds. This will cause huge organizational changes and major misunderstandings in voting technology itself. And the third. The system of preferences in countries without a standard long-term culture of democracy leads to very negative phenomena. You know, this is our word, our phrase: they wanted it as good as ever. Several post-socialist countries, such as Poland and the Czech Republic, have encountered this, with lists of preferences that today lead to a real weakening of the parties, as they provoke intra-species competition for voters’ sympathy and thus break these parties from the inside. So today there are serious options for moving away from the preferential system, moving to hard closed lists. So once again, every electoral system has to be adequate, relevant and understandable in a particular social and political situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u152	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. The second report is complete. The chairman of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the decision of the committee that considered these two bills, but before that, to remind you of the history you remember, we had 10 bills. The decision of the Conciliation Council to entrust the committee to do the reconciliation work and to get out as little as possible, and it would be desirable for a single bill, we tried to implement it, but it didn't. And for today, there are two bills that are presented to you by their authors. The committee voted in favour of these bills. The committee voted by 15 votes in favour of the bill submitted by Mr. Klukkowski. For the bill submitted by Mr. Gavrish, the committee voted by 3 votes. In fact, after supporting Klukkowski's project, the committee has decided to put these two bills before the hearing, to present them, and to make a final decision on your case. I'm also informing you that we have the conclusion of the Chief Expert Office, which expresses its critical position on the Havrish project and believes that it needs serious work. And that's the same conclusion on the Klukkowsi project, which thinks it's possible to accept it in the first reading. How was the committee headed? First. There is an urgent need to address the problem of political structure of society, the creation of conditions, the establishment of influential political parties. Clearly, Klukkowski's bill solves this problem better than Gavrish's bill. What's more, the Havrish bill we get into sometimes a conflict that we can't get out of. For example. If in one day a person takes off his candidacy in that district, how do you replace it? What way can we talk about it? To write doubles? Then how much? And if you write all 450, it turns out that it's a key design. Obviously, we can't go on that there can be two or even three deputies in one district, and there will never be one in the other. And this is how the party will solve the problems in its district, not the national one. In this way we will not get a powerful party. The other one. We need to rule out an administrative resource that is now a very powerful mechanism. Clearly, the Keykowsy project works better to exclude administrative resources, as the 2002 elections showed. According to Gavrish's project, the committee believes that we can get an oligarchic parliament that will work roughly as most people do today. The election campaign, that's the third one, should be all-U.S. campaign, not close within one district. And it's clear that if we had free media, the Havrish project could be supported. And if one of us can go out today and the other can't, then the opposition especially needs to go around Ukraine, and especially those who are in charge, means the party's component, the leader of the party. They are proposed to be closed within one district, thus preventing voters from being identified. Finally, the fourth. We need to follow the path that has tested ourselves, and we have experience. Every time we propose a new election system, it's just to numb our voters' heads off and achieve chaos. Obviously, someone needs him. Fifth. Why we insist on speeding up the adoption of the law. There are opponents here who say where you're going, so why are you in a hurry? I want to, let's solve this problem. The sooner we adopt the law, the first, the more qualified we are to prepare for it, because the 2002 election, as if from the wheels of the adopted law, showed that they were not prepared, especially the election committees. Second, the sooner we pass the law, we'll give it to you. Let's give you some information about what's going to happen. Political parties will get better organized, blocks will be formed. This will allow the parties represented in Parliament to work today better in the districts because they need to reach every constituency, every electorate. This will enhance the work of Parliament, making it more effective in this way. And then, I want to withdraw the objections that fear is voiced at the address of these bills. Let's write down that this bill will be put into effect since 2006, since the next election. And in this way, we're going to take off all the warnings. And finally, the last thing I wanted to say is that we need to think not about how to become a deputy, but we need to think about how to make the Supreme Council a Supreme Council, not how to make the Supreme Council a meeting of deputies that solves issues of spherium, cement or some other particular problem. We need to raise the level of self-governance, give them the opportunity, the MPs of self-governance, and solve these problems, and we need to tackle the problems that are today hampering Ukraine's democratic development perspective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u154	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please sign up for the question. Let me explain. National Deputy Dashutin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u155	Anatoly Sergiyovich, I thank you for stressing that the committee has passed two bills. So I would like to point out that, in your opinion, do we have a problem today with relations between the regions and Kiev? Do you think there is a regional policy vacuum today? And if we run a purely proportional election today, and where, frankly, do I have to say, is 90 percent going to be on the list of people in Kiev, or is the relationship with regional policy in the state getting better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u156	Thank you. I think we have a problem with lack of unity and understanding that we are a unitary state. And it's the desire to increase the regional emphasis in this Parliament and break Ukraine. And that's why we need to think about how to rule out this problem. I think that, not through regionalization, but through unity and responsibility, and this can only be achieved by the public political power, we have to go. And because, to me, this problem is better solved by the law, not presented by Gavrish, but by Klukkowski. That's my personal point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u157	National MP Matvienkov, European Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u158	Matvinkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Anatoly Sergeyevich, I would still like to go back to the question that my colleague asked. Indeed, the most fundamental, major problem to date is to make a balanced parliament that truly meets the demands and aspirations of the electorate, the peoples as a whole. The proposed options are the parliament of the city of Kiev, and you understand that very well. No matter how we talk about a proportional system, no matter how we declare it, it's the parliament of the city of Kiev, and you understand that. Moreover, if the lists are drawn up in principle, not as proposed by Deputy Gavrish, but as such, in the way in which they will pass, you are well aware that we will have the Parliament of the city of Kiev. Is that what you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u159	I want to tell you, in answer, to remind the famous wisdom: "The geniuses are born in the province, and they die in the capital." And the mechanism of formation in the capital of the elite is the problem and order of all states. And if we want the elite to be represented in a parliament capable of lawmaking, let's not deny it. But unlike you, he was once a proportion and twice a major. I'm telling you, as party leader today, I don't think I'm making a list of known political, key figures, let's say Donetska. Like any other known political figure in any other area. And that's why the parties will be interested in these people. And that solves the problem of representing regions. Otherwise, really, the parties won't be supported. And the party itself is not an enemy, it has to solve this problem if it wants to be in Parliament. This is settled within a proportional law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u160	National Deputy Orzhachowski, Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u161	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Please give the floor to National Deputy Mishuri Valeri Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u162	Turn on the Mishuri MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u163	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I'm not working for the first time. I know MPs who went to major districts and were in their constituencies just before the elections and before the next elections. And for the last four years, they haven't even looked there. And you probably know them, and we can call them names. And we know the MPs who went through the party lists, they're built around these districts and in certain regions, and they're always there, and they're always working in the districts. So this problem that they're talking about today, it's just a deliberate problem and you don't have to put it there. And by the way, this problem, as it's solved in the Klukkowski bill, is being solved in this way. I have a question for you. Here, too, Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish spoke of some closed lists. I don't understand why it's starting to happen. And because, let's say, all 225 candidates in the 2002 election were published in newspapers and anyone who wanted to could look at these things. So this is also, let's say, not a problem. I'm sorry. How do you feel about these problems?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u164	Thank you. First of all, I want to say statistics that are already in Ukraine. That only 18 percent of seniors confirm their reelection. Of these, only 10 percent are in the same districts. So, who just thinks he's going to be elected there, has to leave the illusions, because this is, again, just ten percent. Now, as far as we're concerned, we're going to have to find a way to get the party to work in the districts. I'm confirming that there are people who don't really live in the districts. I'm personally anchored in the Winnitsky area. There's going to be a break for district work, and I'm going to Borsacki, Chichivnicki district, as I've already been there, and I'm taking people in and working. I think that's every MP on a proportional list of one party or another. Obviously, this law requires changes to the Party Law, and obviously there should be problems in the formation of party lists if the demands with regional emphasis and the work of political parties that have come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u165	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Report completed. It's over. We've been with you for five minutes. Let's figure out tomorrow, let's consider all the comments that have been made. We've had 50 minutes instead of 45 offered. We'll decide tomorrow. Subjects 1055-2 of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service to Local Self - Government Authorities on the category of posts and pay for work are under consideration. Rapporteur, Ukrainian National Deputy Ivancho Ivan Vasilovich. The committee is invited to report for 5 minutes, to answer a question for 5 minutes, to answer a question to a coconspirator for 5 minutes. In 25 minutes, we'll try to figure it out. Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! You are being reviewed by a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities to determine how to pay local government officials and how to give them additional paid leave. [[Part Three, Article 21]] [[part of the sixth article]] The purpose of this bill is to ensure that local self-government is, above all, constitutionally independent from these issues. It is proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers be deprived of its powers in the field of local self - government, such as the classification of positions in local governments and the material security of local authorities. Articles 14 of the bill add to the list of positions in local governments. Making changes to the proposed list of posts is an exclusive mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In article 21, the changes that have been made deprive the Office of the Ministers of the authority to determine the order and conditions for the establishment of groups at the expense of local government officials, as well as the order and conditions for the granting of additional paid leave to local officials. The adoption of these changes will allow local self - government authorities to determine and make their own decisions on these issues, as has been done in Europe and not only in the countries of Europe with regard to local self - government. It is proposed that local government officials at district and district council levels be set up by their executives by appropriate councils at the level of government officials of the respective categories and positions. They were not set up for local authorities by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Taking into account that, at the level of rural, rural, urban district subordination, the boards of employees of these bodies do not have an analogy compared to government officials, at this level, you know, there are no public authorities, it is proposed to set the remuneration of work at the level of the respective district council. This principle of self - control will also be preserved. This also gives us the right to identify local self-government authorities in such an important matter as self-employment, to raise the level of pay for the employees of the lowest village, the village, the city of district subordination, where there is today a major burden on the management of the territorial communities to deal with many issues, including the state delegated to them, which are becoming more and more subject to each year. They're transmitting. The project also sets out the order and conditions for granting additional paid vacations to officials of local self - government. Please support the changes made and accept them in the first reading, since the lowest chain of local self - government authorities at the village, village, district level needs our support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u167	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Let me explain. Deputy Orzhachowski, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u168	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear John Vasilovich, I am fully in favour of your bill, but I know that you have come out of local self-government, and you really know all of these problems that are facing employees today and in general before the basic level of this sphere. But in this regard, I have a question for you. Our opponents may say that this bill is not in time because there is no financial foundation. As you think, if there's a sufficiently well-provoked position today, there might be, and if your bill on financial costs was calculated. And as for really your position, I think today we need to protect representatives of local self-government authorities, because they protect our electorates like no other people do, so they demand respect for themselves first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear Anatoly Vasilovich, there is certainly a question for the opponents, but let's look at this problem from the other side. Today, the minimum wage of 165 dollars, the head of the village council, the salary of 175 dollars. Please tell me, for the person who runs the territorial community, knows all the farming in the territory of the territorial community, is the whole responsibility, is that today's salary? It's not a payday. The heads of the district council today pay 210 dollars. Please tell me, is this a payday, too? So we just want to raise a little wage to this level and make comparisons between the district council officials and the village officials, the city council of district subordination. But that decision is well - advised. And if the council sets the number, the salary, and I think it's not that big of a money, it's within the state for a month of order of 38-40,000 dollars. It's not money for the rural, rural, city council, they're going to find this money, but we're going to raise both the level and the status and pay for the work of these people who need it. They are now self - paying among all categories of local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u170	Deputy Malinovsky, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u171	Thank you. Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. Dear reporter! Of course, the increase in salaries in these bodies should have an impact on the human resources capacity of these bodies. But given that things are going the other way around in our country, don't you think that raising your salary will lead to people claiming to be completely unprepared or almost unprepared for this job? How do you feel about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u172	Thank you for asking. A reasonable question. But you do realize that you can put it the other way around today. Who goes to the head of the country or chooses the head of the village council in particular? Let's talk. For that kind of salary and for that kind of benefits and all that. You know that today the head of the village or the deputy, or secretary of the village council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u173	Ivan Vasilovich, I'm sorry. Can I turn off the cell phones? Just so they don't interfere with the speakers and work at all. I'm sorry, Ivan Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u174	Thank you. Today, this category of officials does not even have a bonus because it has nothing to give them. And second of all, answering your question. Of course, we are not guaranteed that those who are not supposed to be there will not come, but are chosen by the territorial community, but we are allowing better people to come to these positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u175	Thank you. This is Deputy Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Non-Criminal Ukraine", "Solidarity", the Party of Native Defenders. Dear John Vasilovich, I am certainly grateful that you have asked these questions. That's the only question I have. How is there a mechanism for monitoring the activities of those leaders who can set up, council under their influence, a higher salary, or one that can be afforded by the council, considering it necessary to choose and prioritize, first to fund -- a rural library, a field office, a school or a paid salary? How Can I Control It? You've probably seen the state of these budgetary institutions today. They're in terrible shape. And before the President is in Italy right now, I'd like him to see what municipalities there are like in the villages, and how we are, and understand why the village is disappearing, why the state is disappearing today. Because it all starts down there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u177	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yuri Anatolyevich, I'd like to answer your question, if you don't mind. This is determined by the council, but not above the level of the head of the district council for the head of the village. The difference today is 25-35 bracelets, looking under the category of advice. All of it. These are not the costs that will affect the maintenance of libraries or other social institutions in the countryside. Secondly, with regard to the question of paying for the work of these categories of people, I think that the territorial community represented by the council, the MP Corps, is more visible in each particular city to set one or another salary to its leaders. But not more than what is defined and envisioned by these changes. I don't think I've made a problem of it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u178	I see. Thank you, Ivan Vasilvoich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u180	The chairman of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule is invited to attend. If you can, cut it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u181	Yes, thank you, Alexander Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you a little bit about the history of this matter. You remember that last week we discussed questions 1055 under the same name. It's just that when the committee looked at the government's draft, they rejected it, because they think that it's not the executive body and the Cabinet of Ministers who should be the self-governing authorities, because it's a violation of the Constitution. And by rejecting this law, including in support of the opinion of scientific management, the committee was tasked with offering an alternative. And the law that we have to vote on tomorrow, we propose 1055 rejecting or calling off the cabinet. With regard to the law that Mr. Ivancho has reported, the committee supports this bill and considers it necessary to vote tomorrow, and is guided by the following: we must today raise the level of self-government, because we must understand that otherwise we will never receive or gain effective civil society. And these are just the first steps that the committee is targeting. We will offer, and very quickly, that support and develop local self - government. With regard to this bill to all skeptics, and even more economists who say it's a lot, there's a salary offered in Ivancho's project, I want to say that nothing costs as much as a cheap self-governance. And so we need to understand that if we want effective authority, we need to understand that this is what we are going to do. I thank you for the opportunity to comment on and report on the position of the committee, by the way, the Scientific Expert Office project, Ivancho, supports and expresses a positive view of the possibility of adopting it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u182	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Is there a question for the reporter? Anatoly Sergiyovich, I ask you to remain in the rostrum for the time being there is a comment from the Cabinet of Ministers, and if you have to answer, please include a discussion. I invite you to speak to Mr. Matthew from the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention once again to the problem that has arisen with the definition of pay conditions for local government officials. As you will recall, under the Law on Paying for Work, employees of local self - government authorities were governed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The last piece of legislation that was adopted states that the conditions for paying employees of local self - government bodies are determined by the councils themselves. This has already led to a series of problems. If you know Poland’s experience, where it has also given local self - government authorities the right to determine the conditions of pay for work, there has been a situation in which one local government, which is small by number, pays are higher than the other. There's a race going on, who's going to get a bigger salary. This trend especially takes effect before the end of the cadence. And then all the workers want more to take out the wages. There can't be such a thing. We need a single centre to regulate this wage level. So there's a proposal for this regulation to be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to support this thing, or we'll just keep coming back to it. Please don't accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u184	I've got the position. Anatoly Sergiyovich, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u185	I want to comment. First of all, what you're talking about, Mr. Medvedchuk, violates the principle of the autonomy of local self-government, as enshrined in the first article of article 140 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4, part 5 of article 61, part 1 of article 71 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. Clearly, then, no one gave you the right to violate neither the Constitution nor the laws. Regarding what is proposed in the law, I ask that we keep our logic clearly, not distorted. It's not self-governance and a session that decides, but it's the law that decides how we write it. And the law establishes that this is the limit of the council's head, not above. Wait a minute! If you're against this limit, we don't mind discussing it. Let us accept in the first reading, and then, working on the second reading, if you insist, and your arguments will be convincing, we will listen to them. Maybe a substitute, or maybe some other standard. Perhaps you need to enter a degree according to the size of the community represented today or any other council. So it's a second reading. And I would ask the deputies to take this into account, we should not violate the Constitution or the laws on local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u186	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Discussions on this subject should be conducted within the committee or other procedures should be defined. We're done. Or go out with your arguments to the committee. Does anyone insist on this? There's one. Please, from the Socialist Party, MP Melniczuk. I'm asking everyone, if we can narrow it down, we still have four laws to work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u187	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposed by the National MP Ivancho meets the requirements of time. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will be determined tomorrow. And more than that, I agree that we will support this bill. Parliament must protect and support the good growth of the principles of local self-government. Thousands of appeals are made to the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Among them is the painful subject set forth in the bill today. Local self - government authorities should decide collectively on the issue of pay, the rank of office, and the category of office. And we need to protect our younger colleagues from encroaching on the Cabinet of Ministers' right to dictate pay terms and so forth. By word of mouth, self-government for today and tomorrow does not need intervention or patronage from anyone. Because there is a threat that some councils will become branches of administration. And we have a lot of examples today when the head of the district council goes to the head of the district or district government to ask for a salary for their employees. I understand the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and I understand why they're pushing so hard. I'd like to manage everyone, dictate everything, set everybody up. Please tell us if you know of the problem that there is now 40 in the village councils, where 60 percent of the workers remain. For that salary, neither the secretary nor the accountant, nor the village heads will work? Therefore, this central effort to keep things in hand will never allow self - rule in Ukraine to develop. I invite colleagues, dignitaries, to support local self - government, especially by focusing on rural, urban, and district councils. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u188	Thank you. The discussion of this subject is concluded. We're getting ready for a decision tomorrow. The Government Bill 1032 of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Responsibility for Violations of Legislation on Printed Media is under consideration. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information proposes a procedure: for a report of five minutes, for answers to questions of five minutes, for discussion of five minutes. 15 minutes. The rapporteur appointed the Head of the State Committee on Information Policy, Television, and Radio. Ivan Sergiyovich, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is on a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation. The main bill includes the idea of sorting the registration and accounting of printed information by establishing administrative responsibility for violations of the relevant legislation. Regrettably, there are many gaps in legal regulation in the field of print media. Many of these are related to the fact that today’s legislation only formally declares the establishment of responsibility for violations of legislation on printed information. For example, the Ukrainian Law on Printed Media. Ukraine establishes that the perpetrators of violations of information legislation are subject to disciplinary, civil and legal, administrative or criminal liability, according to valid legislation. In particular, administrative responsibility today is not determined by the legislation in force. Instead, there is a wide range of offences that must be prevented by administrative law, and in the event of failure by those guilty under the law, the possibility of drawing administrative responsibility and protecting the rights and interests of information agents should be established. In particular, such offences should include the illicit manufacture and distribution of printed media products without their registration or the cessation of their re-registration activities. We have all witnessed many false editions of mass circulation made under the brands of famous editions, including political parties and independent editions. Unfortunately, there is no real mechanism for stopping such offences. The bill proposed for your consideration provides for the completion of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences by a new article 186-6 entitled "Infringements of legislation on printed media" by imposing sanctions for a fine of between 10 and 30 untaxed citizens' income. Today it's between 170 and 510 dollars. The bill also provides for the establishment of a mechanism for the application of this article. In particular, it is proposed to draw up reports on administrative violations under articles 186-6 which are the basis for the court's consideration of the case and to place such a protocol on the executive authorities that register the media printed specifically for the administration of the press and information. This project is complemented by article 255, part 1, paragraph 1, of the Code: persons who have the right to report administrative offences. The project also foresees some changes to the press law. Yes, it is proposed to complete article 12 of the Press Act, an application for the state registration of printed media products with a new component, which requires the founders of the media to report to the registration authority on changes in the type of software issue, founders’ address, editors, and so on. I emphasize that it is not about any additional mechanisms that would prevent us from quietly registering the information that is currently in force in legislation. It is only when the legal address changes, when the publication changes its programming goal and, by the way, it causes a lot of conflict between the founder, editor, for example, and journalists, which is also a topic to be solved because there are many complaints that come from specific citizens. Thus, taking into account the comments made on the Committees of the Supreme Council, in the conclusions of the Executive Office, we propose to support this project by modifying and clarifying its name as a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts establishing responsibility for violations of the legislation on printed media. That's obviously what the name should sound like. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u190	Thank you, Ivan Sergiyovich. Please sign up for the question. Let me explain. National MP Bespaly, Our Ukraine. Turn on the microphone now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u191	"Our Ukraine," Bespalian. Ivan Sergiyovich, if you look closely at all the laws that regulate media and even only printed media, we can see that there is a wide range of violations. But you propose that you be responsible for only two types of wrongdoing and for the two branches of wrongdoing that strengthen the control of the media. And it feels like the government isn't looking that way at all -- what is the responsibility of officials for interfering with the media. I mean, in fact, this media stunt will increase once your laws are passed. And it would be a semi-difficulty if there were some important, equilibrium, or something like that: Journalist power increases pressure, and journalists' protection from power does not increase. One day, well, it's unbalanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u192	Thank you for your vigilance, the distinguished national deputy of Ukraine, a colleague. Actually, that's a little bit wrong. In this case, we settle what is not regulated by valid legislation, but what is stated in it. There is article 41 of the Press Act, on printed media and the press of Ukraine, which lists all cases of offences for which responsibility is established, including what you have said about journalists, illegal removal or destruction of the market and parts thereof; violation of the right of journalists to receive information, unwarranted refusal to provide relevant information, and so on. This is all regulated by the current legislation. It's not settled the questions that we've just raised here. And I can assure you that it is up to the Supreme Council, of course, to what extent this law will be interpreted. In this case, it protects precisely, including opposition political structures and not necessarily political structures, it makes it objectively necessary to protect against pseudonyms, from counterfeiting, from anything the entire system of democratic institutions suffers, including MPs and media. There just can't be another subtext here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u193	I see. People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u194	People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block. I can't see because there's a national MP standing here right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u195	Dear friends, sit down a little bit, you can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u196	You know, I also want to share the concern of my colleague of the national MP who's really claiming it, and that's the reason that it's another stalemate on a journalist's neck. I just want to ask you one question: How many officials have been affected by the insolence of journalists. And how many journalists have been affected by the clout of officials? I'm not going to count Alexander anymore, I'm not going to mention Gongadze, I'm not going to mention the last case that happened in Belarus, but just because this law regulates the responsibility of a journalist for somehow interfering with the activities of authority or somewhere his activity does not meet the current insinuation requirements. But where's his protection again? Thank you, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u197	I'm answering you. And we had a discussion at your committee meeting in your presence. You can read, if you want, anything, even out of line. This isn't about a journalist, this is about illegal publishing of information as a product of journalistic work. I can call it, well, basically, "Village News," which during the election campaign seemed to be mass circulation, a fact was established, and no one could take responsibility, even if it had been established, who issued it. I can call the mass when this election in 98, the last election, I've already been in my current position, the mass has been conversions -- and military editions, so-called, false and so on. We don't have a mechanism. This law protects a journalist, not violates his rights. Now. There are other mechanisms to protect rights. I used to stand here three times on the Supreme Council stand, here, on this spot, when I made proposals to the law on penalties restrictions. Today, paradoxically, the judicial system often acts as a punishment rather than as a European court of human rights and as a journalist. So we can be suspicious, but I am fully responsible for saying that this protects the rights and freedoms of journalists and, in particular, the democratic institutions of our own. This needs to be settled because there is lacuna, there is a precipice in administrative legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u198	Deputy Malinovsky, faction of the Socialist Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u199	Thank you. Ivan Sergiyovich, such a question, such a coalition. How do you feel about this? In the Cherkas region, on September 15th, law enforcement authorities removed almost the entire edition of the People's Truth newspaper. In fact, an attack has been carried out on journalistic activity. The newspaper is good, calm, even sometimes commends the President. But the fact remains that no one has ever acted on it. Your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u200	Well, that's exactly the problem, because you're developing it essentially what's predicted. There is an article 41th in the Ukrainian press release law, which specifically considers that there is a gross violation of legislation of the illegal removal and destruction of the market. Further, the mechanisms needed to be applied by the courts. I think the founders were right and should have appealed to the court and decided essentially. We have a lot of questions like this. So this needs to be settled. Of course, if the circulation was removed, not by decision of the court or by decision of the founder or editor, but by some external flow, it is an illegal act. That's what I can argue with, so to speak, without analyzing the situation from a legal point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u201	National MP Hinzburg, Communist faction, and we'll take our chances.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u202	Gunsburg, 161 constituency. Dear John Sergiyovich, I have a question for you. I will, of course, uphold this law if it only allows me to protect a journalist today, because it's a difficult issue in our country. But I am addressing you as head of the State Committee on Information Policy, Television and Radio. And I'm very curious to know. Well, there's no law here, and we can't protect much because there's no law. We have a law that, for example, prohibits advertising when an art movie is going on. But they show. We have other laws, but they do not. Dear John Sergiyovich, how do you feel about this, that you cannot intervene and influence this by forbidding these laws. And also, please tell me, what do we need to do with the MPs so that they don't show on TV these movies and other art products that spoil our young people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u203	Well, it's a very serious question, I hope that December 4 will be a very serious conversation during parliamentary hearings. I'm going to say that the State Committee on Information Policy, Television and Radio, unfortunately, is limited in its powers and even that we're monitoring television channels, radio stations, if it comes out somewhere within our powers. These functions are transmitted to the National Television and Radio Council, which should monitor. It also takes steps, but not all are being done. The legislation on advertising is being violated by everyone. According to the law, only 9 minutes per hour of speech requires advertising, and at the beginning and in the end, let's say, a particular movie, and you can't break it. The ban is on advertising alcohol. But all of this is being violated, as is the protection of social morality. We need a law, we need a law. There's a President's Order on Moral Protection, not everything's going as it should be. So here, in this room, these issues need to be settled, and then we need to ensure, by including a control function, a realisation in a particular life. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u204	Thank you, Ivan Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u206	Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, here in the debate I wanted to say what we discussed on the committee and what we support and what we have some warnings about. The idea and the approach are absolutely correct because there is really a whole range of problems associated with the fact that there is generally little known media media, and especially specific publishers or specific founders who at the time received a document that they have the right or are, as it were, the owner of the media, is not a secret: they go to and sell the media for one release. They've sold, they've released a nigger against you, and they're waiting for another election. In this regard, this problem and the idea that we have here are fully supported by the State Committee on Information Policy really arose. But our fundamental warning is about the problem: Who should be held accountable? And here it seems to me that when we talk about the adoption of this bill in the first and in particular, and in the second reading, of course, we should shift the emphasis to the official printery who publishes it. Because if I'm in the printery, the editor-in-chief or the owner of the media, I need to know that this is a person who has a license, that it's a media tool, that's functional, and then I make a deal with him. Bo's not a journalist. Not the media. So our proposal on the committee was that the responsible official for the illegal or unregistered media should bear the responsibility during the discussion. Then everything becomes a place in this coordinate system. And it's like the first idea we support, but in this edit. And the second idea is, it's related to the re-registration procedure. In fact, there is a situation where, over the years, the newspaper has not been published, or, for example, the media has registered and ten times its owners have changed, it has registered as a public policy, and it publishes about certain culinary products or problems erotic or other serious things, and at a time when it has been registered completely different. Here, I think the logic of the committee is also correct, because we have a standard that we apply to television and radio. There's an approach, the National Council works in such a way that once a given name or owner or its address has changed -- you have to make changes to the license. And I don't think newspapers have to be in another situation. They too must be their owners in a situation such as television and radio. So I'm here to support this position, and the committee supports this change. The owner has changed, the other software objectives have changed, and we need to look at it and re-register it so that the registration authority understands what this media tool is. So our position is that the idea and the problem are perfectly right. But from the point of view of its implementation and from the point of view of which country we live in, we need to pay particular attention to the fact that, in particular with regard to issues and manufacturing, and to the distribution of printed media, the responsibility should be borne by the publication and by the appropriate official who accepts the actual illegal order for this publication. And the second thing that's said here is that I also support national MPs, which, of course, if this is one of the few things that is not being done in Ukraine today -- we need to regulate -- what colleagues said, and socialists, and from the faction of our Ukraine -- that today is the procedure for removal, delay as used. I released the paper today. It's in the printery. In the District State Administration, there was a criticism of the Head of State Administration. They don't give me this newspaper. She's up by nightfall. They're publishing tonight. People waited in the morning, the paper didn't come out. Nobody needs her anymore. And no one read this critical article. [[critical]] No one is responsible for this. So from the point of view of publication responsibility, first of all, printing for these things is a breach of agreement. Of course, in the Code of Administrative Offences, we need to spread these articles and put in place a number of other responsibilities for printing, publishing and disseminating the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u208	Thank you, Michael Volodymyrovich. Is there an insistence on the performance.? It is, isn't it? Take a look at the recording from the rostrum. National MP Bespali. Please, as you can, shorten your speech as much as possible, we are following a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u209	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! Still, I wanted to continue the thesis that I asked in the question, and for which I did not get the right answer, in my opinion, from the distinguished John Sergiyovich. Yet, the authorities show strange selectiveness with regard to the illegal activities carried out by various entities. When it comes to violations or deviations from legislation by journalists or media outlets, there is a rather strict attitude, and when it comes to the mass, and this is a more massive violation by the authorities regarding journalists and the media, there is no way that hands can settle these issues. True, the answer was that the laws on the media set out the responsibility for violating the authorities. But grant what laws are governed by those authorities that apply them. For example, the Tax Administration is governed solely by tax legislation. And while, for example, the Education Act states that school fees are not taxed, taxation does not pay any attention because tax laws do not. Similarly, law enforcement agencies and courts operate. And what's written in the media laws is virtually impossible to implement. And these violations by journalists and by the press, the government is proposing to include them in the administrative codes. So I don't think there should be a selective approach here, there shouldn't be a double standard. And, on the contrary, who has greater authority should have more appropriateness. And I'm just convinced that these bills are actually these novels they also have the right to live, because we have to regulate everything by law, and these two stories also have to be supported. But the main thing is what you have to do in this data. It's to supplement these bills, to follow very carefully the laws and all the offences that are foreseen. The responsibility for which the press laws provide for them should be included in the Code of Administrative Offences, and even possibly in the Criminal Code. Otherwise, the press will never be protected because no court is governed by laws that are not directly outside the scope, that is, criminal or administrative codes. And with these warnings, I think, and also by supporting the warnings of the profile committee, I think we can adopt this law, but, the defense of God, we vote for it in general, as sometimes in the case of euphoria it happens on Thursday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u210	Thank you, Boris Illich. National deputy of the school. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u211	Dear colleagues! I would normally like to dwell on this delicate matter, which is freedom of speech in Ukraine. It is so thin that it is often invisible to the existence of freedom of speech in this state, although we often talk about the fact that we want this freedom of speech to be, but it is either so regulated, or so little noticeable that in principle we can talk about it as desirable. In particular, I would like to point out once again that even now in Ukraine you can't print illegally, that is, in a typography of some edition without a license that you issue, Mr. Ivan Cji. You can't do that! But, you know, there are times when you come in a more independent atmosphere with a printery manager, everything is resolved. Therefore, this does not have to be regulated by law, nor does it have to be regulated by the responsibility to print a well - known illegal or false edition. This is important. And in principle, I think that here, when it comes to the question and the committee profile of what's changing, for example, the ideology of the edition, that it was regulated as a political issue and then moved on. There's also a question, because the change in ideology has to happen only when it's noticeable that it's already too diametrically opposed to ideological principles, which is whether it's going to be a sports edition and it suddenly becomes political. I don't remember such cases in Ukrainian space, maybe I just didn't see them. But remember, it was the "Freedom" newspaper. At first, he was drowned, then burned, and then disposed of. Who took responsibility for this? Nobody. And if that law regulates responsibility for those. Whoever removes the charges will be more demanding and demanding, and calling for responsibility to prevent the release of legal editions, where the authority, especially the local authority, can stop the release, of course this law should be welcomed. But you understand very well that when a law comes out, where very rigidly regulated norms are to be followed by local authorities, printeries and little bits of journalism are limited to their rights, it will always be a little bit more and more closely tracked by the current regime than all the huge misdemeanors that the local authorities will be doing, breaking the law, and printing. Here I support this law only if it is clearly and transparently voted after the first reading, and in the second reading, it is clearly and clearly stated that this law is called upon to protect the journalist and this fine material of the Ukrainian Free Press, the Ukrainian word that goes through the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u212	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Yuri Petrovich, please. Deputy Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course I am for the protection of journalists. In civil society, journalists are sometimes described as watchdogs of democracy. And I'm in charge of protecting these dogs if they bark at the power to protect society on time. What if they're barking and shit? Let me give you two examples. I'm addressing as Ukrainian national deputy to an editorial about what a man, a doctor of science, submits false information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as if it were stopping a bill. I'm adding a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers that refutes this statement by a respected person and I'm asking the newspaper readers to know that it was false information. I don't even get an answer! The question is, is it on the territory of the State of Ukraine or is it separate from the State? Separated from the Constitution, which stipulates that any institution, regardless of the form of property, must correspond to the national MP, so is the Act "On the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine". An undertone of this edition of "The Jacket of the Week," please. The "Day" newspaper, please. And so on and so forth. So I want to say that we have to protect the press, of course, but the press has to be responsible to society, to the Constitution and to the laws of Ukraine. And if certain journalists, or combat dogs, are able to bite not just any person that happens to them by accident, but even their own host. So we need to emphasize: the dialectic of the responsibility of the press, the media to society and society before the press, and the dialectic of their relationship with the state as it is. So I want to say again, yes, let's protect journalists, editors in such a way that we don't have to deal with the shameful phenomena that we've witnessed on more than one occasion. Printing under the logo, under the brand of newspapers, different forgers, but together we'll do everything we can to ensure that we never have journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u214	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. People's deputy Karmazin is invited to the floor, and we'll take the risk. On the other hand, I apologize to National Deputy Carmazin for the preceding question, 1055, who did not see his hand or give him his word. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u215	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Honorable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine, who are now being proposed and properly proposed? In any case, a stunner is offered, let’s speak frankly, smoldering, so to speak, the soft one is offered today by the speakers. Why do I think you're crazy? Think about it. Article 12 proposes that Kabmin be informed by the registration authority of the change within a month. Well, the edition, the kind of publication, is understandable, but the programming goals. I mean, basic principles. But thematic orientation. Well, the situation in the state is changing, is changing, Ivan Sergiyovich, and the thematic orientation, so what should we report right now? What, though, could you do in a month to find out? After all, the convening of the general meeting of the founders at which this decision is to be made is legally called upon to associate with one another in a month. So what's the normal term? So what's not going to be a mess for the media? I'm paying attention to Mr. Tomenko! And at the end of the day, I'm addressing the Presidency: the Honourable Chairman, the honourable leaders of the Supreme Council, are you making changes to the administrative code? You offer to solve more serious issues in the state by administrative means. Nor do you report to the Committee on Regulatory Security. You can't, once again, involve sectoral committees in the thin matter of administrative or criminal responsibility. You can't do that, and you can't do that anymore. I'm asking you, I beg you, because the fools in these laws will be accepted. In any case, the proposed one has positive moments, but it needs to be made softer. Therefore, I would like to see article 6 of the law on printed media brought into line with other legislation. You can take it that way. The moon needs to be replaced for at least two months and so on, so make it a little bit more democratic. I would be grateful if they would take my general comment into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u216	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. And on the floor insists, please for one minute, Leukko Grigorovich Lukyanenko. Please turn on the microphone of the Lukyanenka People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u217	Dear Mr. Head, thank you for letting me speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the practice of choosing from the past has shown that, indeed, people who have a lot of money and have the ability, under the name of one newspaper, to release a million copies of a newspaper of a very different meaning. Dear Ivan Sergiyovich Zhizh offers an administrative penalty for this. I think a type of violation, in fact, of electoral law, deserves to be criminalized in such cases. And then we have a pretty wide-ranging kind of phenomenon where newspapers, let's say, are hiding the opposition party in the kiosk from the bench and not selling it. How can you do that? This is an injustice because the population has the right to know the point of view of various political parties. I propose to introduce a fine or something into the Administrative Code for such workers, because you can't, you know, tolerate it. Because one party has the money to bribe someone in the kiosk, the other doesn't have the right. And so we have a democracy that clearly distorts directly. Finally, I would like to confront John Sergiyovitch with a problem that directly relates to his service obligations. We have the Television and Broadcasting Act, according to which 50 percent of the language is to be spoken in Ukrainian. There's no newspaper like that. I think it's unfair. Now we're seeing this whole rusification moment, some kind of, you know, plague, coming back to this process of ruseization that everyone's been fighting before. Would it not be possible to supplement our legislation so that, in relation to printed media, something like this would be a similar approach? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u218	Thank you. Are you insisting? Ivan Sergiyovich, please, 1 minute and no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u219	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Every position that has been expressed here will certainly be taken into account. I'm the only one who wants to say that Boris Jakovitch Bespalloma is absolutely certain that we will print out the help and give everything that is relevant and prescribed in the legislation that is in force, not just in article 41 on the press, but in the current legislation on responsibility for obstructing journalists' activities. That's what you're going to get. And I think it'll help us get a head start before the vote. Thank you very much. Because the law is always better, even if it limits in some way, because my freedom ends where freedom begins in a different way than the work or the action of lawlessness. Anyway, these questions have to be taken into account, settled, because there's going to be what's been going on until now. Lejko Grigorovitch now asked very serious questions, I noted. Some of them go beyond this legislation, certainly need to be regulated on the subject of language policy, otherwise. In general, I'm convinced that it's not a blur -- it's a development of constitutional principles and the principles of democratic society -- a settlement in a really thin and very responsible sphere, like the media, I'm asking you to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u220	Thank you, Ivan Sergiyovich. This question is now under consideration. I'd like to make a record of it, since we've been paying attention, and not for the first time, to the Secretariat to draw attention to the repeated references to the drafting of reports and to the attention of the committees and the responsible, and to the co-reports of the other committees, which the plane of which is affected by some of the other bills. And I remind you of a very important commission during the ratification to report on the financial situation, conditions and so forth. This has already been entrusted, and please prepare an official report on this subject. Bill 1026, government, is being announced. Draft Act on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Compensation to Citizens for Loss of Part of Income due to Infringement of Their Payment Periods. According to a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers, the first Deputy Secretary of State of Minpraci, Gniedenko, Ivan Fedorovich, is appointed. Please. Pay attention to regulations, maximum reduction. We continue our work for 15 minutes, up to 14 hours 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u221	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft Act on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Compensation to Citizens of Loss and Part of Income due to Infringement of Their Payments is designed to implement paragraph 2.8 of the existing General Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Confederation of Employers and the All-Ukrainian Trades and Trade Unions. In this law, the bill proposes to repeal the current law on non-inflation rate of the month before payment of wages, pensions, scholarships, social benefits and other incomes that are not of a single nature. Such a rule is proposed to provide more full compensation for parts and losses of income due to the untimely payment of goods and services when consumer prices increase. To make it clear what changes are made to this law, let me give you an example. For example, in April there is compensation for January of this year. Under the law, the debt of money was increased by the consumer price index only in February. So you don't take a month for which you don't pay your money, which is a month of January, and you don't take the month that precedes the payment, the month of March. So the amount of income will increase by the inflation index both in February and in March months, i.e. the social protection of citizens is improving. I propose to support this bill. He's also supported by a training committee at the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u222	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? I can't see. Thank you. I would like to invite you to a report by Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, head of the Subcommittee on Labour, Employment and Wages. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u223	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! This bill is just the case when government positions, employers ’ confederations, and trade unions of Ukraine coincide. Why? Because it is designed to ensure that part of the lost income is more fully compensated for their untimely payment in terms of consumer price increases for goods and services. The bill provides for the repeal of the applicable rule on non-calculation of the inflation rate of the month before payment of the debted amount of income. After the adoption of this law, the calculation of the amount of compensation will not take into account the inflation of the month for which income is paid, which will allow for more full compensation for part of the lost income due to the untimely payment of the loss of goods and services in the event of an increase in consumer prices. That is why the committee supports this bill of government and asks that it be adopted tomorrow in the first reading and, if possible, in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u224	That's right, in one minute, Alexander Mikolayovich. Is there a question for the reporter? Deputy Carmazin. Turn on the microphone of Karmazin's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u225	Please tell me. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, there's obviously no government report, although it's clear that the government's position, if it hasn't removed, is that they're supporting their bill. Do you not foresee that in view of the fact that only five words are actually changing, that this bill can be adopted in both the first and the second readings immediately, if you please the Supreme Council of Ukraine? As a matter of fact, it's the law. Because we need to give it to the President as soon as possible, because those processes that are expected in connection with the change in Nazbank’s head, in connection with external borrowing, and so on, they can trigger those processes that this law will be very necessary right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u226	Thank you, dear colleague Carmazin, for the question, and I would like to confirm that if the Collegiates vote on it in the first reading tomorrow, there is no need to make any amendments, perhaps tomorrow to vote on it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u227	From the question point. National Deputy Hinzburg, Communist faction. The Microphone of the People's Deputy, Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u228	161th District, Gunzburg. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich, tell us on what grounds was cancelled in 2000 and 1999 alongside the benefits of veterans and other acts of the Return of Compensation Act? Operation stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u229	Well, that's a little bit of another law you're talking about. It's about a different scheme right now. Today, in connection with inflation, we say that it is necessary for the month to be taken into account. I mean, this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u230	On the basis of what, there were questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u231	I can't say.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u232	I see. Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin is invited to attend. Can you get out of here? Or from the rostrum? Let's get out of here. Yes, yes, please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u233	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! Of course, this law, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is now very timely in its amendment to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on compensation for the loss of part of the income due to a violation of their payout. Salaries are sacred. This is also provided for by international treaties, which are binding on the Supreme Council, which are ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But today we have even accepted criminal responsibility for the late payment of wages, but today there are such cases. And we stand before serious, serious inflationary processes that are unfolding, including government statements that 3 billion and a half should be printed and so on. These are very dangerous processes, and the processes that are triggering today, I would say nervously, the destruction of our electorate's nervous system. In order for them to be calm, they need first to be confident of their future destiny. Well, first of all, don't do anything stupid to the government, or stop talking about turning on a printing press to make money. Secondly, I certainly need to adopt this law in two readings, and I have also suggested that I thank Deputy Stoyan that he supports this point of view. I believe that inclusion in the amount of compensation guarantees freedom for a person because a person has not been able to manage his income properly in the previous month, which could have caused him financial damage through these inflationary processes, so I urge you to accept it in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u234	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. National Deputy Alexandrovsky, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u235	Deputy Alexandrovskaya, Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I won't tell you in detail. I believe that the law is timely, it needs to be supported, and it is to some extent related to the law that we will continue to discuss, and I would like to make a more detailed statement there. I propose to support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u236	Thank you. Deputy Hinzburg, Communist faction. I don't mind, but try to cut it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u237	Thank you. 161 constituency, Hinzburg, Communist faction. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I want to talk to you because it's a very difficult question and it hurts everyone. It doesn't hurt someone who's only full, and you're not full of hungry people. Teachers. The questions are the teachers. I was approached by teachers, the Shastkin district, the town of Shastka, the Konotap district, Konotop, the Krolewetsk district, and others. They ask a lot of questions, but there are no 3 million in the Sumsky area, according to 57 articles. That's the first one. Non-payment of wages in the country. It's a tragedy! No one knows when this salary will be paid and what, especially where the colposia is already broken. Failure to pay wages on businesses that work but cheat people to pay their wages with goods, without paying money to the Pension Fund. This is also a problem. Non-payment of wages on businesses that are bankrupt. People have lost hope of ever getting that money back. That's the problem. The non-payment of wages on businesses that are bankrupt, and they've already been sold, bankrupt and sold, where there's a whole bunch of violations, and there's no telling who's going to pay that salary back. I also want to say the main thing under this law, by the amendments to this law. It does not work today either, for the next budget and before that, it still stopped the law from operating alongside the benefits of veterans, disabled people, and other low - income families. On the basis of which I have not yet understood. And this amendment, like other laws, is probably not going to be implemented. There is no law on the criminal liability of managers of businesses who have allowed the delay of wages. I also want to say that for the people who are listening, for their voters and for, perhaps, yours too, I want to say that today the compensation for the spending of income is being done accordingly, firstly, listen to the radio listeners who listen, firstly, to the Ukrainian Act of October 19, 2000 number 2050 to compensate citizens for the cost of part of their earnings. Got it. Second: the Ukrainian Cabinet’s decree of February 21, 2001, No. 159. These bills, they go -- compensation is calculated by multiplying the sum of the accrued but not paid to the citizens of income, of course, after maintaining taxes, by the inflation index over the period of unpaid income. If this is the year 2000, it was 9 percent. If today, it's different. I know one thing, honourable national MPs, I know we have to take this question down. 4 billion. the debt should have been repaid. When I go to very rich people or something, and I say, help another child to heal, someone else to heal, they go to meet me, they help me, but they say, "You have to work, you have to make money." So when it comes to budgeting, and I respect our Head of the Supreme Council, who says it's easier to share what's in the pocket, but to work hard to earn, to fill the income part of the budget, it's hard, we're not able to do that with you. So what I'm saying is that we have to do it on the budget, and what we have to do with you is take a decision that has to control or somehow step up to the implementation of our laws. So they passed the law, voted, approved, and went, as if they had done something. In fact, this law is not being followed by one, the other, and the other. That's the price with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u238	Thank you. The question is closed. The decision will be made tomorrow. The next bill, 2096, on amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work, on pay schedules, is being tabled. This is the last bill today. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u239	The honourable Chief, honourable colleagues, national deputies, if I had previously said that the bill coincided with the positions of the government, employers, trade unions, then under this law our positions, I mean the government, employers and trade unions, are diametrically opposite. That is why I, as a national deputy on behalf of the Ukrainian trade unions, have submitted to your consideration a bill amending article 15 of the Ukrainian law on pay for work. What are we talking about, fellow believers? Today, according to the law in force in part 3 of article 15, salary is not the primary payment. Various taxes are paid, and funds are paid. Of course, it has to be done, but we think that first the employer has to count with a person's work first and then pay various taxes to different funds. And after examining this situation when various taxes were paid, and then the wages paid, the U.S. Trade Federation found that 70 percent of businesses today are unable to pay their wages. That's why we have a debt in the manufacturing sector of 2.5 billion dollars to date. And in our view, if we change to part 3 of article 15 of the Wages Act and write down, or not even write down, and after the words "after payment of compulsory payments" we put a dot, so we guarantee the priority of payment of wages. The proposed changes are aimed, first, at strengthening the citizens' right to receive their wages in a timely manner. Secondly, the introduction of article 15 of the Act on Paying for Work in accordance with article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that every citizen is entitled to timely remuneration for work, i.e. it is protected by law. And thirdly, most importantly, respectable friends, honourable colleagues, article of the ILO Convention on the Protection of Wages stipulates that employers are prohibited from any way from restricting the right of people to work to manage their wages. [[and this Convention ratified by Ukraine]] So the changes that have been made will remove the social tension that exists today in Ukraine, when a person has completed a full - time job, a full - time job month, and a month’s wages. We insist that first the employer of various forms of property be counted with the worker and then paid all the other taxes to all the other funds. This is discussed in the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The committee supported our proposal. There are positive conclusions from the Science and Research Department. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u240	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Are there any questions? National Deputy Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u241	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, well, I realize that the proposal that is now the essence of the bill, it can't be without the support of the MPs, it's really very important to support it. But, you know, unfortunately, sometimes we have a situation that's included in the saying, "We wanted it as good as ever." I don't care. You mentioned different counting funds. Well, let's say we put the wages first, and that's the right thing to do. But if there's enough to pay for the salary and not enough to count to the Pension Fund, and we're going to lose someone's pension, it turns out that we've pulled one leg out and the other one's loaded. So I just want us to predict all the options and not happen what I'm talking about right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u242	That's a very good question. But the pension bill and the salary are different things. Because the pension fund, the social funds, that's the payroll, the billing. That's the first one. It's different. If the pay is paid on time, well, first of all, it's the social protection of a person's work, and secondly, it's the purchasing power of a person, and thirdly, the possibilities of other countings of a person who worked in different funds, including the Pension Fund, which we predict as a fund that will be non-stated or, say, personalized. So that doesn't contradict each other. We've shown in the materials that we're giving to the deputies, our argument, we've shown that it's not going to contribute to what you're talking about. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u243	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Please. The faction of the Socialist Party. The miller. And let's move on to the discussion. Turn on the microphone of the Melnik People’s Deputy. Check the microphone, please. Oh, no cards? If you'll excuse me, prepare for the speech. Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. You're invited to the presentation. I'm sorry, Vasil Georgievich Hara. A report from the committee. The committee has changed the representation, and instead of the national deputy written down by you, Dreygo is, reports Committee Chairman Vasil Georgiyovich Hara. Please, Vasil Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u244	Dear colleagues! This bill already has a history. In the Supreme Council of the past, the Communist faction introduced a similar project and was adopted. Unfortunately, the President has vetoed and you and I have not overcome this veto. And the meaning is very simple. Man, he's out of work, and he's got to get his salary. In general, wages should be regarded as property for many workers. And in accordance with the Constitution, property, and above all private, is inviolable. It's property, too. Given the relevance of the current wage problem and the fact that Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, as President, stated that he would finally move the social problem to the point of death and put the person at the heart of the State's care, I think that we should support this bill with you and he will not raise his hand on the draft veto. The Committee therefore unanimously supported the People's MP's Legislative Initiative and proposed that the bill should be adopted on a basis and, in general, today so that tomorrow could be voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u245	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. Is there a question for Vasil Georgievich? None. Please sit down. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Prepare the National Deputy of Alexandria, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u246	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! Many people do not understand why the obvious things are not understood by the national MPs. Why were they not clear to the President, who three times imposed a veto on a similar bill? Dear Leonide Danilovich! I am addressing you today, there is an opportunity because of the unification of the functions that you have given to Deputy Prime Minister Azarov Mikola Janovich to unite the efforts of Minfin, the tax, the Audit Office, the Customs Service and the State Department not only into one body, which I think in this crisis situation is useful, but one that will contribute to the filling of the budget, and one that will lead to the detinction of the economy. And then you can actually pay your salary first. Today, in the fifth place, wages are paid on the fifth payment. Is that normal? And that's how a circle is born. I want to express my gratitude to Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan, and unfortunately, I've seen that there's a disorder in the unions, maybe not everyone understands what's going on, the politicization of the issue. But I would like to adopt this bill for the second reading, with amendments to the Law on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance, on mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses incurred in connection with birth and burial, on compulsory public unemployment insurance, on compulsory government insurance against an accident at work. Why? Because current legislation provides for banks to receive funds only at the same time as the payment of compulsory payments. Without these changes, we will not be able to make any changes here. This can be done technologically prior to the second reading. Let's do it, unless it's difficult for us, it's not difficult. And I'm addressing the President. Leonide Danilovich! You don't have to joke about paying your salary. This comes from the Bible, or holy. We must give back what we later earned with blood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u247	The people’s representative, Alexandrovska, is invited to the rostrum. Prepare Nadrag, the People's Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u248	Dear colleagues! I consider this bill to be extremely important today, since it is primarily about ensuring one of the fundamental rights of citizens - the right to timely remuneration for work, the right established by the Constitution of Ukraine. This right in Ukraine has been systematically violated for a long time, including with the direct indulgence of President Kuchma of Ukraine. More than 2.5 billion bracelets have not been paid, as of July of this year. It's 2.7 million teachers, industrial workers, the Agro-Industry complex, people who didn't get that money. The so-called reforms at first in the city and then, by decree of the President and in the village, were the cause of wage debts and increases. In Harikov, for example, the chronic bulk of the cases is the treatment of the employees of the Harikov Electromechanical Plant Serpa and Molot, the Harikov Tract Engine Factory, many other enterprises. I don't have a single reception where there aren't a few people who want them to pay their wages. The amount of unpaid wages of some of them is calculated by thousands of bracelets. People go to court. They shall be given a decision and shall not be executed. The State has practically deliberately translated into poverty those who are capable of working and creating national wealth. Many teachers joke that they have been forgiven for their accumulated payroll debts. In the past, the Supreme Council has adopted a number of laws ionized by MPs, which should have resolved those problems. However, the President's veto has become an insurmountable barrier. In proposing to support this bill, I hope that in this convening, with the knowledge of their responsibility to the people of Ukraine, the deputies will vote in favour of it and will be able to implement it as a matter of urgency. This, by the way, requires not only the social problems that have arisen, but also the economic demands. We need to see the economy revived, and we need to get out of the crisis. Ukraine has large reserves of capacity for enterprises and, with favourable market conditions, the increase in production can be quite significant. Today, there is a need to create conditions to increase demand, and this is directly linked to the growth in the income of the population. We don't need anything. Economists believe that the growth of gross domestic product is directly linked to population income growth. Therefore, the adoption of the bill is essential from an economic point of view. The President's position will certainly be strange if he does not support this law once again. I hope that it will make sense, and I propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u249	Thank you. And the last speaker is the People's Deputy Nadrag, the People's Choice Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u250	Dear Lugansk, the People's Choice MP. The situation is as follows. Absolutely agreed with the author that the priority of wages should be in those financial movements that existed at an enterprise. But! There's a little "but." The bottom line of the problem is that we offer to postpone mandatory payments, so we are totally disengaging all those who are unable to provide themselves. The essence of the problem lies in the following: we refuse to pay to the Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund, unemployment, the Disability Fund and everything else. Therefore, by agreeing with the main question that priority should be given to the payment of wages, I cannot agree with either the initiators or those who have spoken here, that it is essential to pay wages. What about a man who can't earn his own money? What can we give to a person who, from birth or from life, has been disabled? What can we give to a man who can't find his wages? Therefore, in agreeing to the principle of the priority of wages, I cannot agree with and declare from this rostrum, as we have now become fashionable in the Supreme Council, to the people of Ukraine. People, 12 million 400,000 pensioners can stay in the yard, otherwise you won't name it. As a person involved in the payment and repayment of pensions, I can say clearly, as long as there were contraventions by which employers did not pay social contributions, we were in arrears. Regrettably, and this is also true, there has never been any incentive on this subject for us to actually get an increase, and even more so to pay off debts on the social benefits that exist. So today, there's only one thing I want to say from this rostrum. All that is up to me and our People's Choice Group will be able to ensure that the social payments that are intended for those who are unable to provide themselves today and require the assistance of the State, including with regard to redeployment, remain. I therefore propose that this amendment should be amended as follows: “The remuneration of employees of enterprises is made as a matter of priority, and compulsory payments are paid in accordance with the provisions of the laws, and I emphasize the laws of Ukraine”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u251	The offer is understood. One minute out of place, Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u252	Alexander Stoyan. Dear colleague Nadrag, I wouldn't want you to mislead all of Ukraine. It's not about paying the salary, it's about paying all the other payments. We say, wages, first-rate payments, and with them, other payments. What's more, when the salary is paid, the machine, I emphasize, the pension fund is paid, it's different, it's the payroll; it's paid to the social and then to the other. What are you doing, distinguished employers? You don't pay a person a salary that you've worked for and should get it, but you're very kind to others. Are you not obliged to pay a person’s wages? You have to pay both wages and pay for all kinds of funds. It has to be complex, so I propose that this law should be adopted, because it is the protection of people's work and the protection of those people who really are pensioners and everyone else. But it's in the complex to look at. So there's something to switch places to pay first-hand wages and everyone else next to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u253	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. People's MP Nadrag's microphone. Your card is not enabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, I, in this case, have no claims, I stress once again, and by giving a full report that the payment of the wage is a sacred duty of all, beginning with the employer and ending with the State, I insist on the wording of the law. I read literally, "The pay of employees is made in the first order after payment of compulsory payments." I stress, payments, not taxes. And there's quintessence in that. And the legal interpretation of what compulsory payments are, are the social contributions we have been talking about. That's why I'm pushing myself again. It is not against the need to pay and be willing to do so, including with the initiator, to seek any legislation, but we must write out clearly enough so that no one has the temptation to do what anyone wishes, not in the way that old people should be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-27-m0.u255	I see. We have concluded our consideration of this matter with you. The next session of the Supreme Council will take place at 10 a.m. tomorrow, and we will be voting with you on a series of extremely important bills. I would like to thank the few national deputies who have been able to work until the end of today’s working day. You and I have really worked hard. And to remind you that there will be parliamentary hearings in this room at 4:01 p.m. -- "The New Generation of Independent Ukraine 91-2001." At this time, at 16 p.m., there will be meetings of workers in committees, factions and groups. And on that point, I would like to make another comment from the Secretariat. We need to develop a mechanism that would make it impossible for committees to work together and parliamentary hearings. This is not the first time we have referred to it, and please give a clear explanation so that it will no longer be so. A lot of MPs work, they want jobs both there and there. I thank you all for your work. I'll see you in this room.
