ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. People's deputies please register. There are 369 national deputies registered in the hall. Please provide information on the faction registration. Thank you. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma of Ukraine, government headed by Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach of Ukraine, is also attending the heads of district, Kyivsky, Sevastopol City Councils and State Administrations. Dear colleagues! As you know, the order of the day of the first session for the period prior to the election of the Committees is to hear a message from the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the internal and external status of Ukraine. The materials sent by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council are given to you earlier. Today, the President of Ukraine will address his letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. The word is given to the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchmi. Please, Leonid Danilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u2	President of Ukraine. The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! Distinguished representatives of the diplomatic corps, representatives of the public, media! Dear compatriots! First of all, I would like to extend a warm welcome to all who have been elected to the higher legislative body of the State. This is my first speech before the new composition of the Supreme Council, and believe me, I am very pleased to meet you. The relationship between the President and the Parliament in the past has not always been the best, so I suggest, and quite seriously, that we start with a clean sheet, as it were. For the next two and a half years, you and I are going to have to work together anyway, and there's nothing we can do if we focus our energy on conflict and opposition. You and I have too much work to do. Today, I would like to encourage all constructively appointed deputies to work together for the benefit of our country. In accordance with article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I have provided the texts of two letters to the Supreme Council. In today's presentation, I'm just going to touch briefly on the issues raised in the President's annual message on Ukraine's internal and external situation, and I'm focusing on the issues outlined in the Integrated Document - Conceptual Principles for Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Strategy 2002-2011 "European Choice". First of all, I would like to draw your attention to one aspect of this year's message. Life updates the need for a strategic programme that takes into account, on the one hand, the dynamics and objective features of the modern socialisation process, and on the other, the socio-economic and geopolitical realities of Ukraine, and, naturally and clearly, it has used enough trust and support for the people. Having lived for one decade of our statehood, we must enter a new phase in Ukraine’s history with a realistic understanding of both past gains and calculations and future tasks, orientations and goals. That is the idea that I think the document before Parliament is being considered. On the basis of this, it is expected to develop a comprehensive strategic programme for the development of our economy for 10 years, with the introduction and approval of it by the Supreme Council. I hope you've been able to read the message. It doesn't make any sense to repeat it, so I'd just like to stop at some questions that are personal to me. I'll start with the problems of government. The main objective of the new stage of administrative reform is to create an effective system of government that meets the standards of the democratic rule of law. This system should be transparent for society, guarantee the rule of law, ensure the unabated observance of the human rights and freedoms defined by the Constitution. It is particularly relevant to ensure transparency in the public administration process. Transparency of power is one of the main principles of civil society and the rule of law. And by giving this problem exceptional importance, I have been commissioned to prepare a draft presidential decree that lays down the principle of transparency in the management process technology at all levels. This project will be posted on the presidential website in the very next few days, and I ask MPs, faction leaders to get to know it, to make their comments. [[What, by the way, can also be seen as an embodiment of the principle of transparency]] An important link in administrative reform is to regulate relations between branches of government, to ensure that the mechanisms for their effective cooperation are approved. In this context, I would like to address the issue of a coalition government. Both common sense and world practice suggest that the prerequisite for establishing such a government is a stable parliamentary majority. I hope that most of this is really going to be formed, but it's not going to be a formal majority, it's only created under the distribution of ministerial portfolios. No, the country needs an active parliamentary majority, united by a clear political agenda that is able to vote in solidarity in favour of this program and thus form a legislative field for reform and government work. And when such a majority is created, I am ready to discuss with its representatives, under its programme all relevant issues, including the composition of the government, coalition or other, including the question of the prime minister’s personality. But if that is not possible, if we have most of the fictional, situational, most of it only by name, then, excuse me, gentlemen, but we will remain under the current constitutional mechanisms of government formation. I'm going to touch on another question that many in this room are interested in -- the impeachment procedure. We, as a democratic country, need mechanisms for parliamentary control that would deprive the President of the possibility of violating the Constitution and the laws. The matter of the Supreme Council is to enact the relevant laws. But you also agree: you also need mechanisms that will allow you to re-establish an ineffective parliament. You know, I mean the President's right to dissolve parliament if he's not capable of creating an active majority. I hope that you, honourable national deputies, will be able to make appropriate changes to the Constitution because that is what the outcome of the U.S. referendum requires. Let us return to administrative reform. Another direction of its new phase is the delegation of management functions from the top down, the expansion of regional powers and the comprehensive development of local self-government. Convinced, too, that the implementation of this task should be in an organic manner consistent with the implementation of administrative and territorial reform in Ukraine. We need the government and the Supreme Council to work together on this mature issue. I am also ready for a dialogue on the choice of governors. But there must also be constructive responses. The task of forming and substantially updating the management elite, joining the management system at all levels of the competent and proactive personnel of the new generation, is equally crucial. A vital requirement of life is to carry out a set of radical economic, legal, organizational, and forceful measures aimed at decisively limiting corruption and shadowy economic activity. The danger of growing a shadow capital with a government apparatus, its impact on various spheres of social life, such as party activity, regional authorities, local self - government authorities, and the media. It is worth noting that this is the result of the contradiction of reforms, their structural inefficiencies, the substantial gaps in current legislation. Our shared responsibility is to unite the efforts of the legislative and executive bodies, the general public, in eradicating these shameful phenomena. There is a need for constructive reform of the judicial system. Ensuring transparency and objectivity in the trial is an essential condition for improving, among other things, the business environment of entrepreneurship. At the same time, this will promote the international authority of our state, its appeal to foreign investors. An important basis for deepening systemic transformations, reform policies can be shared and coordinated around the European Choice strategic programme. It's not just about the actual geographic vector of gravity, of course, and not just about the purposes and terms of official acquisition by Ukraine of a status in European structures, although this is certainly very important. The "European Choice" strategy is essentially a guide that guides a society in which direction and how we need to move on. European choice means first and foremost building a step in the direction of civil society, a socially oriented market economy. I will immediately point out that in carrying out these strategic tasks, the role of the Supreme Council is very important. It is you and the President and the government that must provide legislative support for structural reforms that will help create the necessary economic and social preconditions for our country's accession to the European Union. And I'm going to notice that this is a huge job -- the corresponding documents are going to be tens of thousands of printed sheets. In this regard, I welcome the formation of the Supreme Council of the European Integration Committee. This will no doubt contribute to the strengthening of the appropriate area of legal work. We need to continue to work hard to strengthen our statehood. The deepening of Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence and our progress through European integration should be an organic complement to each other, not conflicting with each other, being the only one. Dear National Deputies! The conceptual principles of Ukraine's economic and social development strategy for 2002-2011 "European Choice" are accompanied by a package of materials to the Supreme Council each year concerning specific aspects of the implementation of these tasks. They focus on: the formation and development of the internal market; the scientific advances and prospects for its development; the formation of a land market for populated sites; the establishment of a middle class; and the economic relations with the Russian Federation in the strategic perspective. In all the specificities of these documents, they give a pretty clear idea of what is now the main thing that needs to be focused on, the power and the resources. I think it's right to start this block of speech with a narrow summary of where we start the new stage of our journey, the point of its countdown. Over the past two years, there has been a significant increase in basic economic performance, even taking into account the depth of economic decline in previous years. Last year gross product increased by 9.1 percent; industrial production by 14.2, agricultural production by 9.9 percent. What is particularly important is that economic growth takes place in the background of improving the quality of economic performance and positive structural developments. There's a transition to an investment growth model. Investment and productivity are increasing at an advanced rate. Production of finished production, such as machinery, light and food, has increased. Last year, our nation increased considerably the production of grain and its processed products. There's been a tendency to expand the internal market and lower the level of economic Tinnitus. The growth in economic dynamics was accompanied by a positive balance of payments, a reduction in government debt, and the accumulation of the government’s gross currency reserves. All of these are the real fruits of the gradual exit of the Ukrainian economy to the path of steady growth, which in turn leads to significant social shifts. The third year in a row increases the real income of the population, reduces unemployment, and reduces wages. For the first time in a long period of time, there was a real wage increase. Employment pensions have been increased by 58 percent. The depth and seriousness of economic downturns also testifies to the dynamics of this year. In four months, gross domestic product increased by 4.1 percent, investment volume by 9.6, and real population income by 16.6 percent, including real wages by 19.2 percent. The stability of the national monetary unit is maintained, although inflationary risks in the economy continue to exist. At the same time, I am far from appreciating what I have achieved. Only the first steps have been taken to deal with the consequences of the devastating economic crisis, the social policy challenges we face. A related epicenter of these tasks is to achieve annual growth rates of 5 to 6 percent of gross domestic product. Only such a pace is sufficient to realize the economic crisis of extremely complex social challenges that have accumulated over the years, in order to achieve a marked upturn in raising the standard of living of the population, especially of low-income citizens. The complexity of the situation is that we have practically exhausted the extensive economic development mechanisms that have led to growth in the previous two years. The necessary radical qualitative transformations are capable of bringing about long-term and effective factors for the large-scale modernization of the national economy and its structural reconstruction. I am counting on your understanding and understanding of this principled position. We were still hampered by objective reasons to design an optimal model of economic and social transformation. In a deep crisis that deforms socio-economic relationships, it was practically impossible. Now we have this opportunity and we have to do everything we can to make it as full as possible. The main thing is to move to an innovative development model that is organically combined with deep institutional transformations and elements of effective government regulation. The slogan "To Europe on the basis of an innovative path of development" should determine the main content and direction of the entire strategy of the next decade. It must also be made clear that innovation and the development of modern scientific production are not a distant future but a matter of today. Here is the key to solving the problem of structural economic reconstruction, enhancing its competitiveness, entering world markets, and the flow of capital. So it's obvious that stimulating scientific progress is one of the defining tasks of the government, the Supreme Council, the executive authorities on the ground. Joint efforts should be made to promote the integration of science and production, the large-scale integration of industrial, banking, and commercial capital into structures capable of producing high - tech, competitive goods and services. For all of our complexities, it is urgent to increase the level of state funding for science, to strengthen the material technology base of scientific institutions. I stand for this to be foreseen in the State Budget for the following year. Some special explanation here, I think, is unnecessary. At the same time, we need to be more specific about the development priorities of academic science, away from the practice of low-efficiency budget dispersion, focusing them on priorities and competitive funding. The role of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine should become more tangible in solving these challenges. Market realities dictate the urgent need to increase the level of commercial use of scientific research results, to create a system of effective protection of intellectual property. This requires a legislative framework that is fully in line with international standards. The most important tasks of economic modernisation are the expansion of the internal market. So far, the domestic economy remains largely focused on external demand services, making it too vulnerable and dependent on international conditions. We're going to have a full, full internal market if there's a severe reduction in tax pressure with increased tax protection, maximum simplification of tax administration. I look at this whole set of problems as one of the most responsible tasks of the government and the Supreme Council. Taking into account the features of the new economic strategy of exceptional importance, tax incentives for innovation and capital accumulation are being applied. There's just no other way to stimulate these processes economically. Everything needs to be done to significantly reduce taxes on natural persons, which will significantly improve the financial system, will contribute to its development. In this regard, I would like to point out that simplified business taxation mechanisms have fully justified themselves from an economic and social point of view, and refusing to use them would be a huge mistake. The same is true of the problem of improving the value added tax mechanisms, such as addressing the problem of the return of the budget debt to exporters. The state budget for the following year should be established on a new tax basis. I understand the complexity of this problem, but it has to be solved. Further delay in adopting the Tax Code is totally unacceptable. If it is not possible to accept it as a whole, it is necessary to accept it and implement it in stages, individual chapters. At the same time, you, honourable deputies, will certainly keep track of the budget balance, and where changes in the tax system will lead to a reduction of the income, you will balance it with an appropriate reduction in expenses. Society expects the new composition of the Supreme Council and the government to make tangible progress on this issue. Another and the same urgent task is radical change in banking lending practice. What worries me is that our banking system, even in its first approximation, does not meet the strategic tasks of the letter. This is the weakest place in the Ukrainian economy. What's worth is the fact that the commercial bank loan rate is almost three times that of the National Bank. At the level of bank lending, Ukraine has 119 seats among the 147 countries that account for the corresponding rating. I don't see effective efforts by the National Bank towards radical change in this situation, especially in the performance of its basic function of overseeing the activities of commercial banks. But it would be naive to expect that the problem could be solved without a radical reduction in the risk of bank lending, primarily in the long term. A prerequisite for this is the solution to the whole set of problems of developing full - time mortgages, mortgages, and a real increase in the liability of borrowers for violating credit conditions, and so forth. The primary responsibility lies with the Supreme Council and the government. Following the events of September 11, 2001, the world society took seriously the issue of money laundering. Today the integration of our nation into the world's economic space is virtually impossible without the creation of an effective national system to combat the legalization of criminal income. The inadequacy of our legislative framework has already led to the inclusion of Ukraine in a list of countries that do not cooperate properly in the area of money laundering. So I am asking you, honourable national deputies, to speed up the work as quickly as possible with the adoption of the relevant legislation. Key tasks include: streamlining property relations; ensuring the necessary legal and political support and credible protection of private property rights, which affirms its position; creating favourable conditions for the accumulation of national capital; strengthening its competitive position; and creating an effective owner in privatised enterprises. It's time to adjust the ideology of privatization itself, transform it from a fiscal tool to an active mechanism of investment and modernization, active diffusion of innovation and modern management. Today, we are faced with the need for an active application of bankruptcy, an economic approval of an effective competitive environment. Ukraine does not yet have such an environment. The rules of the game must be the same and equal for all. Hence, the need to abolish the sector’s benefits and preferences to individual business subjects, to level competition conditions at regional and local levels. In view of the increase in competition, the activity of Ukraine on the way to becoming a member of the World Trade Organization should also be considered. This requires the government and the Supreme Council to take more effective steps towards the proper harmonisation of the legislative framework, particularly the speedy adoption of the Tax Code and the Customs Code. Dear National Deputies! We are all witnessing positive developments in the agricultural sector of the economy. At the same time, I see this as a direct consequence of its reform, as a confirmation of the impact of the radical reconstruction of land relations, of the approval of private enterprise in the village. The agricultural complex is gradually becoming the hub of increased economic activity, the catalyst of investment processes, and the village is the basis for expanding the internal market, forming the middle class, and strengthening political and social stability in the state. In all of this, however, the acute development problems of the APC are not diminishing. I'm sure you know them well. We need to understand that the changes that have been made can only be made irreversibly due to the logical and consistent completion of land reform, a deep reconstruction on this basis of economic and financial-credit relations in the countryside. It's about establishing a full market for land, modern land and mortgage mechanisms, effective mechanisms for protecting property rights to land. Equally urgent is the establishment in the village of modern market infrastructure, the application in line with World Organization standards of trade in mechanisms for active protection of the national agricultural market. One of the most important priorities of agrarian policy is technical and technological upgrading of the APC. The state of agriculture is catastrophic, and much of it has become almost unusable today. In connection with this issue of priority, the State is to create in the village a modern market system of material and technical agricultural production. So far, we only see new Ukrainian technology in our exhibitions. This is a huge government debt. It requires a substantial improvement in the lysis system. The approval of private property on earth creates favorable conditions. Special attention needs to be paid to the problem of remodeling the village. Against the background of dynamic land and property reform, growing production volumes, strengthening agriculture continue to be in crisis in rural health, education, culture, household services, housing and utilities. For all of this, people with their immediate interests, problems, and needs. Parliament can and should contribute to the settlement of the village problem through legislative enforcement of the new Earth Code, which is 30 bills. The work is large, complex, but vital. Ukraine faces the urgent need to produce and implement a new energy strategy, a full - scale state energy conservation programme. You know that the only energy available to sustain our own needs is coal. The challenge is to change the balance of energy consumption by substantially reducing both absolute volumes and the share of natural gas consumption while shifting the center of weight to coal. This is associated with the need to reconstruct thermal power plants, which would allow them to adapt to the use of the existing domestic fuel base. By doing so, we will increase the energy security of our nation, and by doing so, we will open up the prospect of a coal industry on which some have rushed to build a cross. This will stimulate other areas: machine building, black and color metallurgy, chemical industry, furniture, and industry. Interest in such policies and the environmental aspect of foreign investors should also be taken into account. I think it is necessary to draw your attention to new aspects of macroeconomic policy, particularly its direct dependence on the pace and impact of economic growth. Our ancient disease is chronic imbalance and the low efficiency of government finances. It is especially disturbing that such a situation is preserved under the conditions of economic growth. The roots of this, on the one hand, in the systematic calculations of budgetary policy, are fiscal orientation, and on the other hand, in the chronic failure of the government and the Supreme Council to reconcile its positions on income and budget expenditure. As a result, an unrealistic budget is adopted year after year to destabilize the financial system, making it virtually ineffective. We have to live by our incomes and not paint in a budget that will never come. At the time, there are significant changes in the whole range of issues related to the formation of public finances. They should be based on the primary strengthening of the finances of the owners, other legal persons, and households. We've already found out, and hopefully, finally, it's impossible to strengthen the financial system just by taking action from above. The experience of reforms confirms the validity of the policy of reliable monetary stability in recent years. A strong monetary unit that corresponds to market realities should remain a defining feature of the national market, its investment attractiveness, its preservation and the accumulation of real income. It is necessary to continue to adhere to the policy of limiting the debt dependency of the State, especially the external one, and above all to the principle of the deficit of the State budget. We don't have another way out. Judge for yourself. Only next year do we have to pay off the external debt budget for over $1.6 billion. The Cabinet of Ministers, together with Parliament and Nutzbank, are to produce an agreed state strategy on external borrowing. Legislatively, it is necessary to prohibit the channelling of resources thus received to finance the current budget expenditure. When I stop at the key factors of intensifying and increasing the competitiveness of the economy, I constantly mean that this is the main and only way to implement our social programs and projects. There is no limit to how this happens, just by a few shifts, you need deep quality transformations. At the same time, other factors need to be taken into account: The development of the social sphere cannot be artificially forced. We need to be realistic: A significant improvement in the lives of the population is possible only through the successful development of the real economy. Any imbalance in this ratio can cost not only the economy but society as a whole. The logic of the new strategy presupposes the principle of correction of income policies. The emphasis should be on the income of the working population. Today's low labour costs, as well as the chronic underexpenditure of social spending, are holding back virtually everything: the development of the internal market, the dynamics of economic processes, the pace of scientific and technological progress. The stimulating role of wage is almost entirely lost to us. Like you, I am concerned about the dequalification of the workforce, the departure of experienced experts abroad. The income policy that is proposed is not a resuscitation of the equation. Disproportions and distortions that have formed, including poverty, need to be overcome, not by artificial restrictions on the upper income levels, but by legalization and removal from the shadows, by expanding the range of private owners, energy and entrepreneurial people who successfully engage in honest business and who thus benefit from it. If you look at the problem more broadly, it's about income policies aimed at strengthening middle class positions with a significant reduction in the share of the population whose income is lower than the subsistence minimum. In this context, the problem remains particularly acute for the creation of effective social facilities for young people, especially students, academic and creative intelligence, cultural and educational actors, and military personnel. Economic and social policies are becoming increasingly important in stimulating the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. At the level of employment in small business and its share in the production structure, Ukraine continues to remain in one of the last places in Europe. We must work together to remedy this situation as quickly as possible. This requires stable regulatory conditions, the adoption of an effective system of protection and small business insurance, the organisation of taxation, accounting and reporting mechanisms, investment and credit services. On July 12th, the All-Ukrainian Council of Small and Medium Business Representatives is scheduled to take place, where I hope to hear the answer to the question, "What is stopping the development of this sphere of economics?" The task of the government and the Supreme Council is to urgently address the whole set of issues regarding the decisive lifting of regulatory restrictions on small businesses. We need to create conditions that will provide a tangible breakthrough in enterprise development, an annual creation in the near future of not less than 100,000 small businesses with a million jobs. Once again, we are obliged to do so in an urgent order. I see the substantial understatement of the Supreme Council of the previous call in the non-admission of legislative acts that could have led to the initiation of a full-scale pension reform. The current situation in the area of retirement is most disturbing to me and to you. Today, the average pension in Ukraine is more than double the cost of living. Particularly bitter and offensive is the fact that, with the permission to say so, the pension strikes at people who have created, defended, and multiplied our national wealth. There is only one way to remedy this situation: to establish a multi-level pension system. In this regard, I would like the Supreme Council to define as its first priority the adoption of two laws — state and nonstate pension schemes. One was approved in the first and the other in the second reading. If this is done, we'll open up a space to create a new principle for a more efficient retirement system. As an important task in the coming period, I'm looking at an increase from 35 to at least 60 to 65 percent of the ratio of the average pension to the wage. There is an acute problem with coordinated steps to improve public health. The Government and the Supreme Council should ensure a gradual increase in public spending in this area and the development of insurance medicine, the efficient use of these funds, the improvement of the quality of health care, the reorientation of health care to a substantial increase in preventive measures. Special attention is needed to improve medical care for disabled people, elderly people, villagers, and those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I would like to point out that it is impossible to continue to resolve the problem of raising the social status of medical personnel as well as educational workers. We understand the consequences if we lose our doctors, our teachers. I have repeatedly stressed the need for a radical reconstruction of housing policy, the transition to housing development, mainly on the basis of population costs, mortgage lending. These measures should be implemented when maintaining the housing system of the least protected population, which will be funded by the State and the local budgets. I'm saying that the amount of the corresponding allocations needs to be increased. An important component of housing policy is the implementation of housing-communal reform over the period 2003-2004, aimed at overcoming monopolies and creating an effective competitive environment in the residential-communal sphere, a significant improvement on this basis of the quality of the provision of services to the population. Dear National Deputies! Turning to the international aspect of work to which we should adjust ourselves in the new century, I would like to focus first on the need to ensure its clear sequence and future, an organic link with the positive acquisitions of the previous period. The European choice of Ukraine is a continuation of the general line of its political behaviour in a world taken at the dawn of independence. At the same time, at a new stage of development, Ukraine’s foreign policy is to acquire new qualities. Without detracting from the mainstream of the socialisation process and from the basic positions and aspirations of the world community, it should, to my deep conviction, become as pragmatic as possible, without any ideological coloring. I'll tell you with all honesty: our foreign policy is not yet strong enough, if you want, to work hard to defend the interests of its state and its citizens. Overcoming this flaw is one of the urgent tasks of Ukrainian diplomacy. Having chosen a pivotal idea of state policy -- both internal and external -- European choice, we have to decide first for ourselves when and in what form it will be implemented. Our best answer is full membership in the European Union. To my profound belief, it would be in the interests of both Ukraine and the member states of this influential and authoritative organization, a tangible step towards finally overcoming the division of the continent, establishing a single, stable democratic Europe. At the same time, we cannot help but see, especially now, that our definition of membership in the EU as its strategic objective does not yet guarantee its automatic achievement. All of us realize that there are objective challenges on this path, including those that depend not only on Ukraine. We also understand that the achievement of the goals that we set for ourselves requires a small amount of negotiation with the representatives of the European Union. But ultimately, everything will depend on us, on the depth of the institutional transformations in our country, economic, social and political reforms, the consolidation of democracy and the basic principles of civil society. We need to do our work, large and necessary, moving forward with our inner furniture, without giving up or absolute complexity that stands in the chosen course. At the same time, there is no narrowing down of space for the active, consistent, and purposeful conduct of foreign policy in all other directions. In Ukraine, no one takes away the right to increase their role as a key transit state, one of the largest and most qualified contributors to peacekeeping operations. It preserves its significance for the comprehensive development and deepening of beneficial relations with Russia. Not only does this policy conflict with us, but it complements our desire to deepen our cooperation and rapprochement with Europe. We are in favour of creating a free trade zone that actually includes all Western, Central and Eastern Europe, including Ukraine, Russia and some other countries in the post-Radians area. This problem has become particularly relevant in connection with the enlargement processes of the European Union. We have to do everything we can to prevent a return to the bad times of the Berlin Wall. I understand that the first step in carrying out this task is to acquire Ukraine’s membership in the World Trade Organization. The strategic partnership between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland, which can now be attributed to the fundamental values of modern Europe, will be deepened. We highly appreciate the relationship we have with Germany, their dynamic development has been reconfirmed in the last days. We will actively develop our relationship with the United States. Taking into account the new realities of the world’s system today, problems of joint resistance to new global threats, the creation of a new world and Euro-Atlantic security system, and an intensive dialogue aimed at removing barriers to bilateral trade and investment. We hope that our relationship will continue to develop on the basis of mutual respect. The resources of our nation’s international activity and authority are multiplied by its participation in the activities of world and regional international organizations, especially the United Nations. The last confirmation of the strength of Ukraine’s position was its election to the UN Human Rights Commission. This way, we need to keep moving. The State’s national security interests and the modern international situation dictate the need for a substantial deepening of Ukraine’s relationship with NATO. The revitalization of the Euro-Atlantic integration vector of Ukraine's foreign policy, its clear focus on full-scale Euro-Atlantic integration, the reform of the country's military potential in accordance with European standards, should become one of the most important priorities of our nation's policies, and be addressed in one package of Euro-integration tasks. We're willing to go to NATO, given that this is a long phased process, on the other hand, the willingness to participate in it by the member states themselves. We need to do everything we can to bring Ukraine and NATO's interests together step by step. This is the guarantee of Ukraine's active participation in the further development of a European security system that takes into account the national interests of our state. I hope that the Supreme Council will actively cooperate in this process, take the necessary steps for its legislative provision. Dear National Deputies! Once again, we've been working with you for two and a half years. It will take some time, and you and I will go back into history, new generations will come, but all of us would like to keep in mind the descendants of people who have done something useful for their fellow countrymen and their country at this most responsible stage of development. We will be able to do so when we focus — all together and individually — on the sacred service of society when we put the greatest interest in the people at the forefront of our aspirations — when we take with us what unites, not what divides. I want to assure you that I, as President, am ready for fruitful cooperation, especially for any institutional change in the interaction between the branches of government, if they can increase the effectiveness of our joint work for the benefit of Ukraine. I hope and believe that you, as well as the distinguished national deputies, are capable of such cooperation. May our love for Ukraine inspire us in this! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u3	Thank you, Leonid Danilovich. Dear National Deputies! A break of 15 minutes is announced. At 11 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u4	People's deputies please come into the session room. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats in the session room! I understand that you have a lot of information to discuss, but let's continue the meetings. Dear National Deputies! You will be given a list of questions that you are invited to consider today. Today’s session is agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. Dear National Deputies! You will be presented with a draft Order on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 18 to 21 June 2002. The Conciliation Board of factions proposes to accept the project without discussion as a whole. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. You will be presented with a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 18 to 21 June 2002. Draft decision 1226. Please prepare for the vote. Dear National Deputies! As we agreed at the Conciliation Council, we need to approve the work plan for the week. We were looking at the work plan for the first session. The committees and factions are working on it now, and we're voting on it on Thursday. Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for your statement. Five minutes. Please turn on the "Race" system and record it. I'd like to give you a name. Thank you. Tskitishvili, faction of the only Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u5	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[electoral district 106, Lugansk region]] Please give the floor to the MP from "Trudova Ukraine" Yooffe.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u6	People's Deputy Yooffe. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u7	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[electoral district 112, Lugansk Region]] At the meeting of the Conciliation Board, we agreed to settle the matter without discussion. I'm offering to say yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u8	Thank you. Sokirko, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u9	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[Election District 17, Viennese Region]] Please pass the word powder to Petra Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u10	People's MP Poshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u11	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[Election District 12, Viennese Region]] Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yesterday at the Conciliation Board meeting, a decision was taken to include a draft decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry concerning the Bank of Ukraine for this week. He's not in the day-to-day for this week. There is a request to comply with the decision of the Conciliation Board and to add draft decree number 1222. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u12	Thank you. Filthyev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u13	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I ask you to pass the word to Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u14	People's MP Lucenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u15	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Our deputies introduced a draft law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies on a proportionate basis to the Supreme Council. We insist that it be included in the deliberations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of this draft law, we need to start the work of the Supreme Council. What we did in the elections must be stopped. Without this law, there is no need to move forward in the political process of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u16	National Deputy Lukyanenko, Yulia Timoshenko’s block
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u17	Member of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor". Please pass the word to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u18	The Turkinov People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u19	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! We do not understand on what grounds the leadership of the Supreme Council does not include in the agenda the daily bills that have been submitted and registered by the people's deputies in accordance with the Rules. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I asked this question at the Conciliation Council. I said the faction insists that 12 bills be included for consideration during this session, but only two bills are included. We didn't get any answers. Moreover, the secretariat answers that you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, have prohibited the inclusion of these bills in the agenda. We wonder on what grounds? And you put on a Thursday a review of this important issue, that is, the formation of the agenda. Please give an answer and include bills in accordance with current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u20	Thank you. Puzakov National Deputy, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u21	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please give the floor to Martinyuk Adamovitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u22	National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u23	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The point is, we need to solve one procedural issue. Under the Rules, we do not have the right to vote today, so before we go to the vote, we must take a procedural decision to allow today to vote on the first two issues of our agenda, namely: the approval of the decision on the agenda and the creation of a special privatisation commission. This is permitted by the rules of the Rules, and this must be done so as not to violate the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The statements from the factions on procedural matters took place. Now I would like to make a little bit of clarification about the proposals that have been made and then put to the vote the proposal of the people's MP Martinyuk. Hence, regarding the proposals that came from the national deputies and from factions regarding the inclusion in the agenda of the bills and the draft regulations. Dear National Deputies! We are now considering and voting on the agenda for the period 18 to 21 June. On Thursday we will vote on our work plan for the first session, and all your proposals will be considered and will be taken into account according to your will. This is true of the proposals made by the Poshenko people’s deputy and of the proposals made by the Turkinov people’s deputy. Then, honourable national MPs, I propose to your consideration to vote in favour of a decision on the first and second issues now by vote, namely: the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council for the period from 18 to 21 June, as well as the election of the National Deputies as members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth call on privatization. These are corresponding draft regulations 1226 and 1189. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. Please turn on the "Race" system. "For" - 230. Decision taken. Please give me information on the factions. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote of the Ukraine Supreme Council Resolution on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 18 to 21 June 2002. This is document number 1226. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? "For" - 241. Decision taken. Please give me information on the factions. Dear National Deputies! The draft Decree on the Election of People's Deputies by Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the fourth call on privatization issues. This is project number 1189. This document is accepted by all factions. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Semenyuk, head of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u25	Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A small technical error in paragraph 8: Matthew is not Valentin Grigorovich, for he is the head of the committee, but Vladimir Josephovich. It just worked like that. The draft ruling may be voted on. I ask you to support us so that we can work productively and make suggestions from the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u26	Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u27	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Sometime in the process of agreeing, agreeing or nightly meetings of candidates of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization, a candidate of our deputy faction, Mr. Alexander Ivanovich, has emerged. And when I started to figure it out, everyone told me that it wasn't about this, but the candidate disappeared somewhere, and this is a specialist on this subject, a doctor of science, a professor. I don't want to complicate the approval of the commission right now, I'm making this statement for the transcript, and I'm drawing the attention of the commission's heads to the fact that we have a qualified candidate, and as soon as possible, please record the last name: [[Maybe someone will step out of the commission, switch to another commission.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u28	Thank you. Valentino Petrovy, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u29	Dear Hennadia Josephovich! I'd like to address you with that explanation. In accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property and the Position approved by the Supreme Council, the number of members of the Commission is 15. I think that according to the draft decision that the faction representatives have made, the quota is kept -- there are four representatives from your faction. We'll consider your offer. But today every MP, regardless of where he works on the committee, is allowed to work on the committee, to attend its meetings if he so wishes. I think we will certainly consider your offer. And today, the proposal for a vote needs to be supported so that we can work, move forward, and direct legislative initiatives, and direct control of privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the election of Ukrainian National Deputies as members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call on privatization issues, taking into account the proposals already made and agreed upon. This is document number 1189. Please prepare for the vote. Please turn on the "Race" system. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? "For" - 268. Decision taken. Please give me information on the factions. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Here's the next question: a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2001 Uško Igor Olegovich, the finance minister of Ukraine, is the reporter for this issue. Correspondents are Head of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Poshenko Petr Alexiyovich, and Head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenko Valentinin Konstantinovich. Dear National Deputies! We need to consult. The Committee on Budgetary Questions is making such a proposal. He's been asking questions for four and a half hours, namely: a report by the finance minister -- up to 20 minutes, answers to a question to the reporter -- up to 20 minutes, a report by the head of the budget committee -- up to 15 minutes, answers to a question to a co-rapporteur -- up to 10 minutes, a report by the head of the Court of Auditors -- up to 15 minutes, answers to questions to the head of the Court of Auditors, up to 10 minutes, statements from the factions -- 5 minutes, statements from the committees -- up to 5 minutes, statements from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine -- up to 3 minutes, closing words from the Committee on Budget Affairs -- up to 5 minutes. [[specific split]] The committee also suggests that we vote today to decide on the outcome of the discussion. In addition, I would like to bring to your attention the fact that the Conciliation Board of factions at its meeting last night offered not to hold an evening meeting, but to work on committees. So today, if we act in harmony with the Rules and our daily routine, we will not be able to discuss the matter. But it is also bad to interrupt the consideration of the matter. Perhaps you would support the suggestion that we consider this issue at the expense of our lunch break, for example, by 15 hours we have completed this consideration, made a decision, and then moved to work on committees and factions. Is there no objection? Then I would like to vote for this proposal. I'd like to rephrase the proposal: consider this question by 15 hours, then take a break until 10 a.m. the next day to work on the committee proposals for our first session so that we can approve this plan on Thursday. Dear colleagues! Please support this proposal. Please prepare for the vote. Please turn on the "Race" system. May I have a vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? "For" - 305. Decision taken. Thank you very much. Please give me information on the factions. Thank you. Let's move on to the question. Uško Igor Olegovich, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, is given the floor for the report. Please, Igor Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u31	Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The government's report on budget implementation last year, I think it's worth looking at in the context of the macroeconomic situation and the dynamics of its development last year. The findings of Ukraine’s 2001 national economy show that the nation’s trend toward economic growth continues. The real increase in gross domestic product was 9.1 percent. By comparison, this figure was 5.9 percent in 2000. Industrial production increased by 14.2 percent from the year 2000. The business entity’s balance sheet profit increased from $14 billion in 2000 to $17 billion in 2001, and in 2001 alone, the business entity’s profits of $38 billion were compared to $35 billion in 2000. [[Financial result before tax]] The percentage of bartered products decreased from 17 percent in 2000 to 8 percent in 2001. The total volume of retail trade in 2001 was 34.1 billion dollars, 12.6 percent more at comparable prices than in 2000. Capital investment increased from 23.6 billion in 2000 to 26.7 billion in 2001. The volume of exports of goods and services in the reporting year increased by $1.8 billion, or 9.7 percent, compared to 2000. The volume of net exports of goods and services in 2001 increased by $140 million compared to 2000, amounting to $2.9 billion at the end of 2001. [[balance]] Also positive is the decline in the average consumer price index from 128.2 in 2000 to 112 percent last year. Unemployment fell from 4.2 percent in 2000 to 3.7 percent in 2001. The average monthly pension for 2001 was 122.5 bracelets, 46.4 percent higher than the corresponding one in 2000. This also applies to the average monthly wage, which was 311 dollars in 2001, which is actually more than 35 percent higher than the corresponding figure in 2000. The real increase in population income in 2001 was 11.8 percent compared to 2000. Positive trends were also observed in the business economy. The credit debt of government-funded budgetary institutions decreased by 430 million dollars, or 22.2 percent, in the 2001 general fund. In 2001, there was a decrease in accounts payable to budget workers by 284 million dollars, or 87.4 per cent, including $229 million of military personnel; 30 million of materials, inventory, construction and capremont, or 28.6 per cent; 20 million of utility and energy bills, or 8.8 per cent; almost 18 million of capital expenditure, or 11 per cent. The government-funded budget receivables decreased by 141 million in 2001, or 19.1 percent, from local budgets to 17 million, or 4.6 percent. Government debt optimisation policy contributed to a 37 per cent reduction in Ukraine’s government debt by almost 2.4 billion dollars and a ratio of government debt to GDP by the end of 2001 compared to 45 per cent by the end of 2000. With regard to the implementation of the income section of the State Budget. Of course, all the economic growth preconditions that I've just reported have actually contributed to an increase in the income of the State budget due to an increase in tax revenue and non-tax payments. Let me remind you of a few numbers. The government budget of Ukraine approved the revenue and expenditure of 41 billion, 961 million dollars, which was the approved deficit - free State budget. The General Fund of the State Budget and the deficit of the Special Fund of the State Budget have been approved in the amount of 674.7 million dollars. The government budget of Ukraine during the reporting period reached 39 billion,726 million dollars, or 94 percent, of the annual plan. Government budget revenues increased by 3 billion 496 million dollars, or nearly 10 percent, compared to 2000. The General Fund of the State Budget in 2001 received 28 billion, 474 million dollars, accounting for 85 percent of the annual plan. Compared to 2000, the general fund’s income increased by almost 350 million dollars. Ukraine’s 2001 budget reached 54 billion, or 934 million dollars, of a consolidated budget of 103.8 percent. The lack of income from the State budget amounted to 4.8 billion dollars. They are largely due to the failure to implement the public property privatisation plan in 2001 and the failure to find an added cost and income tax for enterprises. [[That's 3.6 billion dollars.]] [[1.3 billion dollars]] [[about 300 million dollars]] What were the main reasons for the failure to do so? The main reason for the lack of privatisation was the withdrawal from the competition or the transfer to a later date of the sale of VAT packets by Shimmerek and 12 energy distribution companies. The status of the value added tax in the State Budget has been affected by the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Added Cost Tax Act since the approval of the State Budget Act 2001. In fact, it was renewed in 2001 as a tax system for farmers. The budget deficits caused by the benefits amounted to more than 900 million dollars. Loss of income from corporate income tax is also due mainly to the adoption of legislative acts that either introduced benefits or expanded the list of special economic zones and priority areas. The failure of the Excise Congregation to the State Budget amounted to some 352 million dollars. This is related to the adoption of legislative acts to reduce excise duty rates on wine products and tobacco products. [[about 130 million lost]] Sadly, this was also the case after the approval of the State Budget Act 2001. In view of the lack of regulation, the issue of the payment of oil - processing oil products from the oil - producing community did not have more than 300 million dollars in the State budget last year. The state-of-the-art revenue situation of the State budget was, of course, negatively affected by the write-off in the first half of last year of a tax debt of 6.6 billion dollars and financial sanctions of 8.8 billion dollars and the actual current income growth of 6.3 billion at the end of last year. The Act on the Treatment of Taxpayers’ Liabilities to Budgets and State Purpose Funds, which has been adopted, is meant. It's not just about cheating, it's actually about the fact that when the file was written down positive, we overestimated those tax administrations that were substituted as the State Tax Administration's tools. In fact, we realize that tax evasion does not work today because of imperfections and tax laws and bankruptcy laws, and because of some other objective circumstances. With regard to coming to the state budget special fund. Overcoming the Special Budget Fund’s funding for 2.5 billion dollars occurred last year. This overdevelopment is mainly ensured by the revenue of the budgetary institutions -- 2.3 billion. According to article 23 of the Budget Code and article 35 of the State Budget Act 2001, the special budget fund has a special status and does not need to be amended by the budget law. The 2001 target funds amounted to 1 billion 111 million dollars, twice the annual plan. The coming of the Assembly to the State Innovation Fund accounted for 168.4 percent of the plan; payments to the Fund for Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities -- almost 170 percent of what was planned in the budget. The congregation’s arrival at the Environmental Protection Fund was 2.5 times higher than the 2001 plan. Payments for natural gas transit through Ukraine to the special fund for the budget year amounted to 1 billion,943 million dollars, which is actually slightly less than 80 percent of the planned volume. Incompatibilities amounted to more than half a billion dollars. This is mainly due to a deviation from the average projected exchange rate that was set in the 2001 government budget, which is 6.3 dollars per U.S. dollar. In fact, last year there was an exchange rate of 5.37 dollars per U.S. dollar. At the same time, Ukraine’s law of 21 June 2001 introduced changes to the budget, which increased the amount of these revenues to under-funds in the past years, namely by 701 million dollars, with the aim of channelling these funds into additional payments for subsidies and benefits to the population. Unfortunately, however, these funds were also not budgeted. In respect of the execution of the expenditure portion of the State Budget. Government budget expenditure last year amounted to 40.4 billion dollars, or 86.8 percent of the annual plan, including a total fund of 29 billion, or almost 89 percent of the annual plan. A comparison with the actual expenditures of 2000. Compared to 2000, government budget expenditures increased by nearly 5 billion dollars, including a total fund of 1.2 billion dollars. Under these conditions, according to article 30 of the 2001 Law on the State Budget, expenditures were, of course, primarily incurred on so - called socially protected and socially oriented articles. In particular, the cost of salaries and the maintenance of military personnel amounted to 6.7 billion dollars, or almost 100 percent of the annual plan. In fact, it's 1.7 billion more than the year 2000. Current transfers to the population amounted to 5 billion dollars. The expenses incurred to cover the salaries of employees in budgetary institutions, the financial provision of military personnel, scholarships and other social benefits incurred in previous years amounted to 567 million dollars, which also accounted for almost 100 percent of the budget. Thanks to the priority and 100% funding of social benefits under the State Budget, debt from salaries to budget workers, scholarships, and financial security was fully repaid. This actually took place for the first time in Ukraine’s years of independence. It should be noted that the State budget to provide local budgets with expenditures that are not covered by own and fixed income amounted to 4.2 billion dollars, or 105 percent, of the planned rates. This enabled the liquidation, for the first time in years of independence, of the wages paid from local budgets. Taking into account that, during the reporting period, 25 per cent has been increased in the main areas of the budget and 15 per cent more in education and in the accounts payable by government-funded budgetary institutions, it has decreased by 215 million in 2001, from local budgets to 455 million, it can be concluded that there has been an increase in the financial management of budgetary processes in the state during 2001. Compared to 2000, government budget expenditure increased by 4 billion 875 million dollars, or nearly 14 percent, including a total of 1 billion 213 million, or 4.5 percent. I would like to draw the attention of the national deputies to the fact that the government budget for medicines and bandages is worth 246.2 million dollars, which is 127 million, or twice as much as in 2000; and to food products worth 480 million, which is 162 million, or 53 percent, more than in 2000. However, due to significant under-recovery in the income budget, these expenditure categories were not fully implemented. It was also difficult to maintain uniformity, the proportionality of the implementation of expenditure in terms of the main budget administrators. It was based on the fact that socially protected articles and articles were primarily to be financed, namely, wages, transfers to support the population, and so forth. This resulted in an imbalance in the financing of the chief executives, who were appointed by the State Budget Act 2001. For example, the consumption of the protected budget articles, which envision housing expenditure, is only 1.6 percent in the general budget, 9 percent in culture and art, 21 percent in international activity, 61 percent in science, 91 percent in social protection. Of course, at such a distribution of socially protected and socially important articles, having an arithmetically equal approach to all supervisors from all directions is not only impossible, but also, I think, socially inappropriate. It should be noted that the education expenditure in 2001 amounted to 3.7 billion dollars, which exceeds the corresponding figure in 2000 by 908 million dollars, or 33 percent. Health expenses amounted to 1.1 billion dollars, more than 384 million dollars compared to 2000, or 53 percent. Industry and energy were funded at 2 billion 470 million in 2001, exceeding the corresponding figure of 2000 by 202 million dollars. I will say a few words about the issue of changes to the figures approved in the 2001 State Budget Act of Ukraine, which took place during the relevant fiscal period. All changes in the annual appointments to the chief budget administrators were made during the year exclusively, I stress, on the basis of the laws adopted by the Supreme Council. These are Ukraine’s laws of June 21 and November 15, 2001, amending the 2001 State Budget Act of Ukraine. In particular, based on the internal allocation of allocations, increased appointments have been made to increase the pay of education workers and scholarships to students. This is the 2001 State Budget Act, in accordance with part three of article 18 of which is granted the right to transfer powers for the performance of functions or services for which an approved budgetary assignment is granted, from one chief public budget officer to another on the basis of legal acts. And this is about the distribution of capital deposits, the reserve fund of the Cabinet of Ministers, the repayment of debt from social payments, changes in the subordination of individual institutions, and so on. And according to part of part four of article 18 of the same law, the Ministry of Finance was allowed, in exceptional cases, to redistribute expenditure on an economic classification within the overall scope of its general budget allocations. At the same time, the redistribution that results in a change in the approved budgetary allocations to the chief budget officer of the State budget under the General Fund by functional classification within their overall scope is carried out only in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues. As to the question of the increase in expenditure on the special fund. Part four of article 23 of the Ukrainian Budget Code establishes that the expenditure of the special budget fund has a permanent budget assignment that allows them to be managed only within the limits and at the expense of the corresponding receipts to the special fund according to the legislation, unless otherwise provided by the State Budget Act. This is what article 35 of the State Budget Act 2001 states, and all expenditure on the special fund was made in accordance with the 2001 State Budget Act. In the absence of time, I will not stop in detail; I am ready to answer these questions. As for government debt and budget deficits. I've already said that last year's government debt has been reduced by 2.3 billion dollars, which is really a very positive trend, and we have to support it comprehensively in the coming periods. In 2001, a deficitless State budget was approved: a general surplus fund of 675 million dollars, a special deficit fund of 675 million. In fact, the government budget deficit in 2001 amounted to 681 million dollars, including a total fund of 487 million. This is the result of a reduction in tax revenues in connection with the legislative changes I have already mentioned. As far as reporting is concerned. Indeed, the government was to report by May 1. The only thing I would like to point out is that, according to the Budget Code, the volume of the report has been increased three times. If the government's standard report in the past was from 90 to 100 pages, it's almost 400 pages. And to the end. On the issue of the 2001 State Budget Implementation Report, the government presented a draft of the relevant decree, number 1181 of June 10, 2002, which we propose to discuss and adopt as a basis. Along with this Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, an alternative project has been prepared that proposes the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in implementing the 2001 State Budget Act of Ukraine to be considered unsatisfactory. The only thing I would ask is that during the discussion, we also consider the positive trends that took place last year. In fact, the question is whether the government's work was enough. In my view, those positive trends that have taken place both in the economy and in the budgetary process are evidence of what it was. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Report completed. Please sign up for the interview. Please. Question time is up to 20 minutes, just like we agreed. Let me explain. Moroz Alexander Aleksandrovich, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u33	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear reporter! A budget analysis shows that in 2001 many budget institutions were funded on the basis of so-called charity, including the 300 million police, the tax service, the Security Service, for 122 million and so on. [[And now this practice continues]] And the question is, what is this practice? Because you yourself understand that this is an unsanctioned redistribution of the state's budget resources, and in the end, these people will never fight the tinnitus, because they live in the shadows. I'm talking about force structures. How do you appreciate this situation? That's the first question. The second may be partly related. I had already asked several reporters on this rostrum this question. Ukraine produced more than three billion dollars worth of nuclear warheads. The Ministry of Finance introduced a special account to collect these funds. In previous years it was discovered that zero had been accumulated, although electricity had been produced. How many there are now, what changes and did they find out, eventually, who stole $3 billion?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u34	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich, for asking. As for, as you said, charity, I understand it's about funding a certain part of the expenditure through special funds for these budget managers. The Supreme Council has decided that such a system can work. In fact, it's not about charity, it's about the fact that some part of the proceeds of confiscation and other things that are being eliminated during operational operations, detention and so on, either by tender procedure or through auctions through a special fund, can be aimed at financing bodies that are actually involved in the detection of crimes and the elimination of these material values that are acquired by criminal means. This decision gives economic motivation for the organs to do so more carefully. In my opinion, it allows for a little bit of a break from the same shadow. This is the decision of the Supreme Council, and when we discuss the draft budget for the following year, we can go back again and, with the numbers, the justification, see if it's worth doing or not. It's not charity, it's economic motivation for fighting the shadow and getting out. As for the second part of the question -- in terms of electricity and this money, unfortunately, I can't give you the exact number that's on the bill right now. I think it's much less than 3 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u35	National Deputy Basil Red, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u36	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Please give the word to Alexander Slobodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u37	Alexander Slobodan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u38	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] It's our Ukraine block. Dear Igor Olegovich! How can you explain the fact that when gross domestic product rose by 9.1 percent, real tax revenues decreased by 4.6 percent compared to 2000? That's the first one. And the second. What part of the shadow economy is your estimate? And why is the Ministry of Finance trying to increase excise duties in Ukraine's gorilla industry to increase the share of the shadow economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. The only thing I wanted to point out was this in my report: in 2001, compared to the year 2000, the tax revenue was actually increased to the budget, and I quoted the figures. I can remind you once again that the financial result, the balance sheet profit, only increased by 3 billion dollars in 2001 compared to 2000. And that's the number. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, the VAT has nothing to do with the corporate income tax, I'm talking about the balance sheet profit. This is a more correct approach. If the issue of VAT had already come out of the hall, and I realized that there would be more of those questions, then I'll say that this problem got worse, but it wasn't just in 2001. It's been getting worse, let's face it, since 1997, right since the introduction of the Added Cost Tax Act, and it's got some deep roots. If you approach the budget objectively, even some optimism will be needed to analyze the economic processes that took place during 2001, I think. I'm talking about economics, other things. We need to understand that it's impossible to do everything in one night or ad hoc, as they say here, but the dynamics, I think, are absolutely positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u40	People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u41	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Your Honor, you represent the government at the rostrum today. The President spoke to you and said that real income and real income should be planned. Even your report states that the budget was real, but there was no financial discipline, and the government is a major breach of the implementation of the State Budget. In particular, who gives the government the right to exempt itself from the payment of dividends from state property, which, for example, in "Silverman" is about 6 billion? And of this part, dividends should be a whole of 150 million. This figure is virtually out of control by the government. Why? That's the first question. And the second. It is said that about 500 million dollars, or 100 million dollars, would have already come into the budget for those installations that were sold to either Iraq or Iran or anyone else. How much of the military equipment sold comes into the budget each year, and why is this figure not controlled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u42	I thank you for asking. It's a budget implementation report last year. That was also in my report, and I want to stress that again. Against the backdrop of the positive growth of the economy last year, and this positive dynamic is quite difficult to deny, there were a few factors that actually made it impossible to implement the government budget's income, especially in the general fund. Among these factors, I think the most influential are the actions that have been taken along with the adoption of the Law on the Procedure for Repayment of Taxpayers’ Liabilities to Budgets and State Trust Funds. Along with the cancellation of the file, which was expected and accepted positively, we have again written off the debt owed to the State Budget, which, to say the least, has not improved the discipline of taxpayers, and this relates to market discipline. Having taken away one powerful tax administration tool, which is obsolete, but it reflects the economic relationship that really exists, we have offered to administer taxes other mechanisms that have proved not to be simply inefficient, but that have proved to be underworked, because tax evasion has not justified itself in the last year, and many factors testify to this. It's one of the factors that's quite influential, the lack of success plans, despite the positive dynamics in the economy. In answer to your question about "The Shrimp," I want to remind you that these almost 149 million dollars of dividends are reserved. There are contradictions in the State Budget Act, by which they are expected to fully access the State Budget, and in the law on "Smallman", by which 35 percent should remain on the investment programmes of their own "Smallman". We need to resolve this contradiction with you. So this money didn't go anywhere, it's off the books. We're going to remove this legislative contradiction, decide if he's keeping 35 percent for himself, or not, and then we're going to do the math. I mean, there's no hiding, there's no speculation about these costs. On the last question, I'm sorry, I can't answer you because I don't have information about trade in special technology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u43	Igor Olegovich, please give the National Deputy Slobodan an answer about the shadow economy. And while you're thinking about the answer, another question from the National MP Ponomarenko is the faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u44	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word to Masenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u45	Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u46	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Igor Olegovich, I don't understand: my colleague Kirilchuk says that everything seems to be in order, the real budget, and the President said today that we haven't had any budget yet, and no one has ever been properly implemented. But you're saying, as I've listened to you, that there is a surplus, a budget executed normally. Is it true, then, who is right — the President or you? You know how the State Budget Act is passed every year. It's practically contradictory, because most MPs, especially the left-wing ones, think it's not real, it's not responding to the needs of our country, especially the socially vulnerable. By force, it is pushed, and then, as we report it, we see that it is really unrealistic. Will such practices continue? And one more question I'm very interested in. I know that not all budget measures are fully funded. And I've called you over and over and over again. There was virtually no help available to me. But I do know that if more influential MPs or officials turn, then financing issues, such as housing companies, and others, are resolved. [[or what else to call]] In some regions they are financed entirely or more, while in others they are underfunded. How can we explain this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u47	Thank you. In your first question, you actually programmed my answer. Of course, the President is right. But in essence, the reality of the 2001 budget was recognized when it was adopted. I believe that during 2001, very simple conditions should be met, which, among other things, will be in place in 2002 and will be in place in the future. First. Tax legislation cannot be changed without appropriate changes in the State budget. We have to realize that. These two, as it were, cannot be torn apart by the public finances. I've reported to you a whole list of changes that have taken place in tax legislation over the year, and in fact, no changes have been made to the State Budget Act. And the second. This is coming from privatization. In 2001, the privatisation proceeds were placed in the general state budget fund. [[I'm not saying that the figure was actually optimistic.]] That is, under the coming of privatization, they were severely linked to the government budget. I don't want to judge right now, but that's not the norm of any civilized budget. The income from privatization, in addition to being realistic, should be contained in the State Budget's funding section, and there should be several mutually compensatory sources of revenue under this chapter. And this is what we're proposing for the next year in 2002. We will discuss this, perhaps tomorrow, during the discussion of the draft budget resolution. Only under such conditions can we say that we can make a real budget that is independent of chance or someone else’s evil will. Regrettably, this was not taken into account when the budget was formed in 2001. It's about the surplus and the deficit. I reported that in general, a deficitless budget was planned. At the same time, a deficit of 526 million was planned for the special fund and a general fund surplus. Regrettably, the imbalances that occurred during the budget implementation, including legislative changes, resulted in a general deficit in the State budget as a fact of implementation, not as a fact of planning.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u48	Why do you react so badly to the proposals of the National MP? That was another question. National MP Masenko asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u49	Please, what question? It's about Excise.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u50	First give an answer and then give an answer about the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u51	I'm sorry. Thank you for asking. I want to say that there is no doubt in the audience in this room. Especially in the first quarter, I was personally approached as a young finance minister by many people sitting in this room today and by those who did not come here. And I can tell the whole country that my answer as an official, as a person, as a national MP in the recent past was the same for everyone. There will be no extraordinary welfare in a separate district or in the area. It's possible at the expense of the budget, but it's not the government's job, and it's not the government's job. And that was and that's my position. Regional funding is primarily a grant for local budgets. We understand that there is actually an imbalance in the budget area, an imbalance in the economy in Ukraine. [[And it's not a nation.]] This funding takes place according to the budget code. If we see that the formal distribution doesn't answer a little bit, in fact, there's debt on some of the socially important issues, we have a reserve to cover this debt. This is the situation where we ended up in the first quarter, refinanced the local budgets for 49 million dollars according to the first quarter and with only 6 million in arrears. This is actually the minimum that could not be lowered below, since there are people who are sick who are unable to get paid at the right time. Other approaches, I guarantee you, there wasn't, there won't be, and there won't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u52	Thank you. People's Deputy Colonyari, faction of Ukraine. I ask, honourable national MPs, to ask questions in a concise manner, and the rapporteur to answer them in a concise manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u53	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. [[constituency 56, Donetsk Region]] I give the floor to Deputy Matvienko, 55th constituency.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u54	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u55	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Thank you. Dear Igor Olegovic, I am looking at the figures given in the income section of the budget. One of the main sources of budget replenishment is VAT. Implementation: 89 per cent. You have rightly said that the beginning of this process has not been established today, it has been going on for many years. As at 1 January 2002, the debt amounted to 5.8 billion grevens. This is one and a half times that as at 1 January 2001. Almost 2 billion grevens are overdue VAT debts. Unfortunately, this negative momentum continues to grow. Last year's budget is a thing of the past. We washed the working goods from the enterprises. What is the Government's view to date and what are the trends in this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. I can report the information I own from the tax administration. The total debt fell from 5.9 billion to 5.6 billion at the beginning of the year. In doing so, the extended debt fell by 130 - 150 million. This is in five months. I'd like to be sure that this is a trend. But it's up to us and you. The government has prepared bills to improve the administration of the added value tax, and I think this week they will be registered with the Supreme Council. I'm asking that we deal with them together. I understand that this will help to avoid, as it were, these butterflies -- companies that wash money out of the economy. So this is a semi-criminal sphere, we understand. This is the first time. And secondly, we will discuss the draft budget resolution tomorrow. And the government is proposing to plan the coming of VAT to the budget next year, as it is a balance account to finally solve the problem of VAT reimbursement, which is overdue. This is a government approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u57	National Deputy Cibenko, and we'll finish, time's up. A written question about the shadow economy was passed on to Igor Olegovich. He will provide such information.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u58	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! Dear reporter! Before I ask you a question, I'll allow myself one line. Your report and the materials we've been provided indicate that the problem of budget implementation has been solved once again by robbing the poorest for the sake of the richest. And I'm asking two specific questions. When we looked at the 2000 budget implementation in this room, the head of the Court of Auditors gave this example: with one hand we take away the aid of veterans, and we scream, "Walt, the benefits!"and with the other hand, through the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees, we give benefits to commercial structures. In particular, the figure was 30 billion dollars, including 6 billion commercial banks. This was preserved in the implementation of the 2001 budget or not? And the second. When we talk about the need for a substantial increase in pensions, we are constantly told that there is not enough money to do so. At the same time, I see that 70 percent of GDP was acquired by the Pension Fund in the implementation of the 2001 budget. For comparison, commercial banks bought only 20 percent of the GDP. Excuse me, do we have money or not, especially at the Pension Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. Regarding replication, I think she needs some explanation, because it's just the thesis. As far as the benefits are concerned. I can express my personal position and I very much hope that it coincides with the position of the government. It should be noted that the history of housekeeping in our country is long enough; it depends on the time when the decision was made. But the problem, in my opinion, is that these decisions have not actually been reviewed for some time. So the motivations from which they were accepted are out of date from an economic point of view, and the new benefits that would fit market relations, we can't introduce them, because the old ones haven't been canceled either. This situation really needs to be resolved. Each country has a special tax policy for its citizens, and Ukraine should also have such a policy. I can tell you that we don't have a policy on debt as a financial policy today. As far as it's concerned, it's the government's decision to do it. The government, which was implementing the budget in the first half of last year, overturned 268 government regulations on underlaws. I think that's a good answer. In fact, the practice of leasing through government decrees was stopped. And about pensions. I can give you the following figures: on December 31st, for example, the minimum wage was 118, on January 1, 140, on July 1, it would be 165. Ladies and gentlemen, we have actually increased the minimum wage by one and a half months. Almost the same processes took place in the Pension Fund. Let's say we have an economic basis to raise minimum wages and pensions, and that's a good thing. But let's see if there's a ground for growth one and a half times. So this has to be economically justified. As far as the Pension Fund is concerned, it is now balanced to pay off exactly those pensions that were finally raised this year. If we reform the income tax of citizens, this tax, in our view, will be both balanced and fairer. [[This, by the way, applies to the said line.]] I think that the funds will go first to the Pension Fund on the basis of getting the wages out of the shadows, and that's extremely important. We'll be discussing this with you, I hope it's summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u60	Thank you, Igor Olegovich. Question time is up, please sit down. The chairman of the Committee on Budget Questions, Prashenko, Peter Alexiyovich, is invited to make a presentation. In 15 minutes, please. One minute, Peter Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we've arranged for you to work without interruption until 15 hours. If we need to, we can take a break of 15 minutes at 1:00. Do we have a deal? Thank you. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u61	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The 2001 government report on the implementation of the State Budget is a comprehensive reflection of the results of its activities during the reporting year. The Office of the Ministers for Violations of Article 61 of the Budget Code did not report on the implementation of the 2001 State Budget by 1 May 2002, which effectively blocked the budgetary process, the quality of the preparation and consideration of the draft 2003 budget resolution. And if a timely report to the Supreme Council is somehow explained, especially in view of the lack of uniformity of the governing bodies of Parliament, there is no explanation and no explanation for the absence of a report within the time limit set for the Court of Auditors. Because of the negligence of the government, the Court of Auditors prepared and concluded on the use of State budget funds, based on the state-of-the-art operating data submitted on February 15, 2002, which also could not have affected the quality of this conclusion. The stated conclusion of the Court of Auditors, which you, honourable members of the national parliament, have given to you, is marked by significant shortcomings in the implementation by the Government of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2001. I hope the head of the Court of Auditors will be more specific in his statement. For my part, I would like to point out that our first steps in the budgetary process are not due to the effective participation of the government, but rather to overcome the obstacles that have been created for us so far. The first thing that falls into the eye is the discrepancy between the growth rate of the macro indicators and the growth rate of the revenue of the State budget. This was also noted in the statement by the finance minister. Indeed, the amount of gross domestic product in the past year has increased by 5.8 percent, and the revenue of the budget has increased by only 2 percent, which is an increase to plan 1 billion dollars. This recovery was due to the mobilization of additional funds into local budgets of 4.3 billion dollars. At the same time, only 94.5 percent of the revenue of the budget was made by the Supreme Council and 85.7 percent by the 2001 annual income census, with changes made by the government. Ukraine’s state budget was implemented without the Supreme Council’s Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers, which, in our view, led to some insensibility and chaoticity in its implementation. At the same time, the government has failed to inventory programs that need state funding, and most of them have failed to comply with the approval procedure of the Supreme Council, as required by legislation. There have often been cases where local budgets have been spending within certain government programs, where part of the funding from the State Budget has been foreseen, but it has not arrived, and this has led to ineffective use of local budgets. Regrettably, this practice has been implemented since 2001 in the current year and is proposed to continue in the following year, as reflected in the draft budget resolution tabled by the government, which we will consider tomorrow. The State budget for 2001 was formed with the division of general and special funds. Practice has shown that such a distribution has not been justified, and the special fund has become the subject of actual violations of budgetary legislation and the removal of the Supreme Council from the budgetary process. While the general budget fund is short of 4 billion 800 million dollars, the special fund's income is in comparison to the approved Supreme Council's overrun by 2 billion 600 million dollars, which I emphasize were redistributed without your participation, honourable national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers, by its decree, amended the budget appointments approved by the Supreme Council for a special fund over the course of the year. As far as the income line is concerned. The Government revenue budget of 3 billion 300 million dollars has not been implemented. At the same time, local budgets have been overrun by more than 4 billion dollars. The trend towards overturning local budgets has been constant in recent years, and it shows the serious problems we have in budget planning. By the way, in the government's proposed draft budget resolution, we would like to see proposals for improving the budgetary planning situation. There are very serious problems in us, fellow citizens, and in the administration of taxes. The negative trend can be followed by the ratio of tax revenue to gross domestic product. In 1997, these revenues amounted to 22.3 percent of gross domestic product, in 1998 to 20.7 percent, in 1999 to 19, in 2000 to 18, in 2001 to 17.5 percent. So as the volume of gross domestic product increases, the amount of tax revenue does not increase. I am sure that the government should take the initiative today to make changes to legislation that would help to improve tax administration and remove important sectors of the economy. The main factors behind the non-performing of the income part of the budget were non-revenue: from privatization to 3 billion 600 million dollars, value added tax to 1 billion 300 million dollars, income tax to 300 million dollars. At the same time, despite such a dissatisfaction in the state budget, the government did not make a proposal to the Supreme Council to clarify the budget. The suspension of privatization has led to a lack of public debt services, which in turn could not have had a negative impact on the financing of social programmes. It's a surprising plan for coming after the article "The Dividends of State Ponds." Dear colleagues, for the first time we introduced such an article into the State Budget, we had a budget for almost 200 million dollars. I just want to give you an example of how one decision of the government allowed a grant of 147 million dollars to go into the budget, including the financing of social programs. The budget was carried out with sharp imbalances depending on the sources. Every year, and in 2001 too, there was no plan for income tax on added value, payments on the fuel and energy complex, but individual payments were made 30 times. This is particularly true of the sums from exceeding the actual consumption fund over accounting and other incomes. [[3 million is foreseen, 99.3 million is actually available.]] Despite the write-off and restructuring of the 2001 tax debt of 15 billion, 400 million dollars, as noted by Honourable Igor Olegovic, the amount of mortgage continues to increase. Therefore, the argument that failure to do so is largely due to the adoption by the Supreme Council of the law on payments is quite controversial. By cancelling the file, we solved our hands to economic operators, which led to increased payments to the budget. And the poor thing was hopeless. And a powerful proof of this is the fact that by January 1, 2002, it was already 6 billion dollars. By the way, today, according to operational data, the size of the mortgage is already 9 billion. And in fact, without serious, decisive action, we will not be able to stop this process. The failure to implement the budget in 2001 is also linked to the operation of a variety of benefits in the taxation system, as my colleague Jusko correctly pointed out. According to the State Tax Administration, the real budget losses due to the 2001 aid amounted to 29 billion dollars. At this we see a whole range of initiatives, including the government, which are aimed at continuing the operation of individual sector benefits, such as an experiment in a mining and metallurgical complex. Today, there is a problem with assessing the causes and factors of the impact on tax debt formation, which is followed by a clear trend towards growth. Despite the fact that according to article 50 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, the granting of a suspension of tax payments to operators belonging to the exclusive competence of the Ministry of Finance as a body directly responsible for the implementation of the State Budget, we have continued practice when this right is exercised by the State Tax Administration. This is done, I think, so that we don't have the real, the real size of this debt. It is estimated that the amount of deferred tax payments exceeds 2 billion dollars. As far as expenses are concerned. The state of implementation of the budget was also marked by major problems and shortcomings. Expenditures from the State budget for the past year amounted to 40 billion, 400 million dollars, with a total of 42 billion dollars, including $3 billion, 600 million under the general fund. In the absence of sufficient revenue, their use was disproportionate, both in time and in terms of the main budget administrators. In particular, the failure to execute the expenditure resulted in, as of 1 January 2002, the accounts payable by the budgetary institutions amounted to 1.5 billion dollars in the general fund, which is essentially a hidden budget deficit. The State Budget Act 2001 established a budget policy aimed at improving the well-being and social protection of Ukraine by maximizing the use of budgetary resources by prioritizing and increasing accountability for the quality of budget spending. In practice, the budget has been implemented in a disproportionate way, both by functional classification and by principals. So according to the functional classification, higher funding is provided for the general fund: government administration is funded by more than 90 percent; national defence by 92.1; law enforcement by 96.2 percent. [[Compared to Medium]] Health care is funded by 74.8 percent; agriculture by 76.8 percent; culture and art by 62.8 percent. [[i.e. 20 percent less]] The share of social protection and social security expenditure in the total budget of 2001 also decreased compared to 2000. This is because the government, based on the President's message, has consistently stressed the priority of implementing the social component of the budget itself. Thus, it can be argued that the task assigned to the priority funding of population welfare and social protection expenditure, as set out in the 2001 National Budget Act of Ukraine, has not been carried out. The same trend characterizes the implementation of expenditure by the chief budget administrators. State administration is funded by 93 percent, the Ministry of Internal Affairs by 95.3; the Ministry of Defence by 95.7 percent. As usual, health, education, and culture were the lowest cost. In particular, the needs of the Ministry of Culture are funded at a level slightly higher than 60 percent. The government argues that the excess is compared to the average funding of the force's pay because there's a high drinking weight of wages. The Committee on Budgets had some difficulty obtaining this data, but when we compared it, we found that the drinking weight of wages, such as education and law enforcement, is about equal, and the level of funding varies by 20 percent. Another impressive fact, colleagues. The Cabinet of Ministers of December 7, 2001, effectively halted the implementation of the government budget expenditure, funded only the protected articles. A few words about budget deficits. We have now a fixed deficit of 680 million dollars. But there is also a hidden budget deficit, the main sources of which are: accounts payable to budgetary institutions; time-consuming and incomplete reimbursement of added-value taxes; overpayments to budgets that are not available today. [[The amount increased by almost 2 billion dollars in 2001 and is actually a budget deficit]] If you add these amounts to the state budget's defaults, you'll see that this situation certainly required the government to come up with a budget sequester for nine months. However, this did not happen. Given that the rules are exhausted, I will literally outline some other problems. There are problems in monitoring budget implementation, as unfortunately insufficient, inefficient use of budgetary resources continues. The clear evidence of this is that in each of the other institutions tested, the General Audit Office and the Accounts Chamber found serious violations. There are some problems with the distribution of the government reserve fund, which was not used for the purpose. And to date, the budget committee will be taking the initiative to adopt a law on the reserve fund, which will clearly regulate the use of reserve fund funds. There are other questions that I would like to consider, but the time limits set do not allow this. The Budget Committee, after considering at its meeting the government's 2001 report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, adopted a decision and recommended a draft regulation to the Chamber, where we recognize the government's work on the 2001 implementation of the State Budget as unsatisfactory. This was voted by the absolute majority of the members of the budget committee, against only one member of the committee, held to zero. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u62	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for the question. Please record. Question-and-answer time is up to 10 minutes. Please point it on the board. National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u63	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Yulia Tymoshenko's block, Fatherland's Party. Peter Alexiovich, I have a question like this. Here I often hear, especially on the first channel, that everything is so wonderful, so great, and it brings joy to the soul. And now he's listening to you, and it turns out everything's wrong. Who does that depend on? After all, we do have the State Committee of Statistics. Do you think the budget committee would introduce such a practice to fund this committee and its institutions depending on the reliability of the information: half the correct information - 50 percent of the funding, 100 percent of the funding right - 100 percent? Because I keep track of statistics, it changes all the time, everything gets better every year, even though it was in the past. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. To be honest, you've had a rather painful problem because the issue of the reliability of statistics on which the government is primarily working on a budget project is extremely vicious. The problem is even where the public authority concentrates on the full amount of information. Today, unfortunately, we have to try to get information from the Ministry of Finance, from the State Tax Administration, from the National Bank, from the Ministry of Economics, from the State Bureau of Statistics. There is no single body where this information is concentrated. I am confident that appropriate consultations should be held with the government in order to concentrate, I believe, in the Ministry of Finance, the full amount of information required for budgeting to ensure effective, constructive cooperation, an effective budgetary process. As for your proposal, it refers to government authority, let's pass these proposals on to their consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u65	Stoyan, "Our Ukraine." Prepare Verethennikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u66	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine." Head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear Peter Alexiovich! You really gave an objective picture of the budget failure. And I'd like to hear that from you. You said two figures that impress us: a little more than 60 percent of the funding of cultural workers and 70 percent of the health workers. I want to say that for six months now, health workers have been working with the government and have decided to start a strike in the fall. This is nowhere to be seen by the medical community. In your view, did you misform a budget that was underfunded by such important sectors, or is there any other reason that culture and medicine were left out of funding? And how do you see solutions to these problems for the future and for the minimum wage issue in general? Because now the unions are negotiating with the government, the government is firmly opposed to any increase in the minimum wage. Today, the president said that it made up a third of the minimum of living, and I'm not talking about pensions or anything else. Will there still be a possibility that the minimum wage, the minimum pensions, will be equal to the minimum wage? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u67	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Mikolayovich. The problem of disproportionate financing of budget articles really exists, it's extremely painful, and I think the only way out of this is by adopting a balanced budget with a zero deficit that the government is guaranteed to implement. Only then will we be able to get rid of the manual government, which unfortunately still exists in the government. When we have a 14 percent underfunding, of course, we're transferring authority from the Supreme Council to the executive branch of power to determine the priority directions for using these funds. The figures I have quoted in the reports are vividly indicative of the fact that, unfortunately, social policy is not the top priority of the government. And we need to make the most of it possible in the budgetary process of 2003, first of all, to ensure budgetary balance, and secondly, to make it clear that the priorities are social orientation and the improvement of the real well-being of the population. What are the measures that are going to be taken -- or reforming the tax system and lowering the income tax rate from citizens, or raising the minimum wage and bringing it to a minimum of living -- we're waiting for these proposals from the government. And I'm sure that tomorrow, during the budget hearings, we'll have an active position that the budget committee will try to take into account by recommending and commissioning the consideration of the draft budget resolution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u68	Vertennikov, "The only Ukraine." Get ready to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u69	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[constituency 28, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] Dnipropetrovsk. Dear colleague! Four years ago, the Supreme Council instituted a new Tax Code, but four years later, and it has not yet been adopted. Is this not the main reason for the lack of income to the budget? Because insurmountable taxes are a barrier to the development of national production and entrepreneurship. Maybe that's why we don't have an increase in GDP in over 9 percent, so we don't have an increase in tax revenue in the budget. Because many businesses work in the shadows, and they want to pay taxes, but they can't because they're going to go bankrupt. Removing tax pressures from businesses and citizens is exactly what will lead to an increase in the income of the population, and that will be our fight against poverty. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u70	Thank you very much, my dear colleague, for asking. Unfortunately, I didn’t have time to explain it in the report. But, indeed, today there is a need for the speedy adoption of the Tax Code and the reform of the tax system. [[We heard about it today, even in the President's letter.]] Unfortunately, draft government laws aimed at reforming the tax system and shaping the income portion of the 2003 budget have not yet been made available to the Supreme Council. As far as I know, they're supposed to be ready, but they're not coming, and you know, according to the Budget Code, we don't have the right to make any tax changes after 15 August. Also, I think it would be appropriate for the government to initiate the creation of a working group where government representatives, national deputies, can enter into the drafting of the Tax Code. This initiative has not yet reached the Supreme Council. We're looking forward to this initiative, the country needs tax reform, tax administration improvements, and today this problem is out of date. As for the problems of getting the economy out of the shadows. Frankly, I don't think we know yet what our economic trends are: whether we have real GDP growth, or if we just have a certain part of the economy out of the shadow when we stabilize gross domestic product. I'm sure these changes are very relevant, and the Supreme Council should be doing them as soon as possible. And if there's no initiative from the government, we should do it on our own initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u71	Thank you. National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u72	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in Foreign Affairs. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] I'd like to give Yuri Lucenka a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u73	Yuri Lucenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u74	Dear Peter Alexiovich! I have a question. Do you not think that the amount of taxes owed to the budget is comparable to the amount stolen through free economic zones and technology parks? An example. The whole "Shitman" is in a single technology park today, not paying VAT, not paying income taxes, not paying excise duties on imports of equipment. Don't you think we should create a parliamentary commission to deal with this issue and stop these black holes in our economy? [[perhaps, along with the government]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to inform you that yesterday, when we discussed in the budget committee of the draft budget resolution, we actually decided that we would go to the government with the initiative to immediately enter into the calculation of all the benefits, i.e. those losses that the State budget has on the existence of free economic zones, technology parks, in order to bring legislation into line with, as it were, the requirements of the economy. Regrettably, certain business entities operating in free economic zones are implementing their production throughout Ukraine, are actually doing unfair competition, and are destroying similar industries throughout Ukraine. That is, the issue that you have raised is extremely relevant, and the policy of aiding technoparks and entities in free economic zones should be reviewed immediately. And we are confident that it is the government responsible for the implementation of the budget that must take these initiatives to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u76	Cloud People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block of July. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u77	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Yulia Tymoshenko's block, Fatherland's Party. Dear Peter Alexiovich! Of course, I wanted to ask the minister the question, but the turn didn't come. Unbelievably low in revenue from the operation of the gas transport system. What is the reason? The Minister's report did not explain the reasons. In your opinion, what is the reason behind this, because this is one of the most important sources of budget revenue?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u78	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Ilkovich. Unfortunately, I'm not ready to give you a detailed analysis of the reasons for the underutilization of the gas transport network, but I promise you that in preparing the State Budget project for 2003, the budget committee will pay particular attention to the arrival of the gas transport network, the arrival of the national stockholder company Naftogaz Ukraine, the position on Ukrzalznica and other large taxpayers of taxes, which I think today have serious weaknesses in budget planning. I thank you for this initiative. This will be taken into account in the preparation of the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u79	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. The head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenko Valentin Kostinović, is invited to the report. Communication, up to 15 minutes, answers to questions from the national MPs, up to 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u80	Head of the Court of Auditors. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable members of the Government! According to the requirements of article 61 of the Budget Code, the annual report on the implementation of the State Budget Act of Ukraine shall be submitted by the Government of the Supreme Council no later than 1 May of the year following the report. The Court of Auditors, in analysing the report submitted, shall, within two weeks, provide the Supreme Council with conclusions on the use of State budget funds. Regrettably, the Supreme Council received a report from the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the law only on 10 June and the Court of Auditors on 12 June. In predicting such a temporary situation and on the basis that the basic requirement of the budgetary process was discipline, the Court of Auditors had to conduct an analysis of the implementation of the State budget at the end of May of this year on the basis of the 2001 State Treasury performance report. In the figures given in the Court of Auditors'submissions to the People's Deputies, and in the Government's report, there are separate, I would like to emphasize the minor differences that did not affect the substance of the findings of the Board of Auditors on the use of the State budget for 2001. In their statements, Finance Minister Jusko Igor Olegovic, President of the Budget Committee Poshenko Petar Aleksevic, reported sufficiently on the results of the implementation of the State budget. You have the material of the Court of Auditors in your hands. I will therefore focus only on the main, node issues that are relevant this year. First. Despite the significant exceedance of planned macroeconomic indicators last year, the Government and the Ministry of Finance were unable to implement the State budget on both income and expenditure. Planned figures for almost every second source of revenue of the State budget remained unfulfilled, of 76 sources of 33 income. The shortfall in payments amounted to more than 6 billion dollars and was partially offset by income from the special fund and some other income sources. At the same time, the Government has not reimbursed the $5.8 billion in value added tax due to payers. In general, the expenditure of the State budget provided for by law was not secured. In contravention of the State Budget Act, which had been approved by a deficit budget, it had been implemented with a deficit of about 2 per cent of the total budget expenditure. Second. The results of the 2001 budget process eloquently show that the implementation of the State budget, and in particular its income component, is not adequately achieved in economic growth. Why? It is particularly important to answer this question in advance of the adoption of the 2003 State budget. Last year's growth in the economy was indeed expected to lead to a significant increase in budgetary revenues. However, the State execution simply did not receive them. In our view, the main reason for this is the so-called characteristics of our national budgetary policy. Despite the lack of money in the budget of 15 billion grevens for the provision of social legislation, tax exemptions for entire industries, numerous firms and entities are being paid off. [[I want to emphasize -- social orientation!]] [[and other public debt and liabilities]] As a result of this policy, the State budget lost nearly 58 billion bracelets last year. This exceeds the income received by all levels of the 2001 budgets by 3 billion. In fact, we missed each other's bracelets. Taxes on individuals, i.e. our citizens, are being collected in full and at rates much higher than even our neighbours in the Russian Federation, at a time when our average wage has barely reached a living minimum. Third. Tax policy gaps do not allow the budget to be successfully implemented. At the beginning of this year, the shortfall exceeded 6 billion bracelets. This is true of the fact that almost 24 billion dollars of tax debt have been written off during the past year. Every year, debt write-offs have become a sad tradition and have produced a “waiting effect” for payers: lobbying and, ultimately, writing-off. Many, therefore, deliberately fail to pay taxes in hopes of another tax amnesty. And she's coming, I want to stress, she's been coming here regularly for four years. The value added tax has in fact lost its value as the main source of income of the budget. That's what happened last year. Of the 37 billion dollars due to the budget, the value added tax resulted in the loss of 23 billion grevens. About 4 billion gruesomes were inconceivable. Only a third or more than 10 billion have been raised. However, at the end of the year, some 6 billion were to be returned to payers. What's left for the budget? Out of 37 billion - 4 billion! How could he not remember the famous saying, "Come on, father, trade, give no more money." And we're still giving out. But it's not even that surprising. The Ministry of Finance and the State Tax Administration know, and economists know that the value added tax in recent years does not correspond to modern economic realities in Ukraine, creates conditions for multiple abuses. It would seem that it is time to make a decision, everyone is talking about it, but for two consecutive years, the issue of taxation is on the table and the situation is getting worse. In the draft budget resolution, the Government proposed that the budget for the payment of budgetary debt be provided for tax payers. I'll remind you that this debt is now over 5 billion dollars worth of bracelets. In our view, and I am convinced that this path is a dead end, it leads nowhere. Fourth. The expenditure of the State budget has not been met. In general, even through the creation of a deficit, the Government has not been able to carry out the statutory expenditures of the common fund of a total amount of 3 billion $600 million. As always, the social sphere was the most affected. The most significant amounts were missing: health: 260 million bracelets, or 25.2 per cent; education: 7.8 per cent; science: 21.1 per cent; culture: 37 per cent; social protection and social security: 2 per cent. Now, see for yourself how the main priority of the 2001 budget policy has been achieved: raising the standard of living and the well-being of the population. Fifth. The problem of budgetary management remains acute - I stress - in all aspects. An analysis of the current cost management practice shows that, in fact, before the beginning of the fourth quarter, the Ministry of Finance, the State Treasury, had deliberately prevented expenditure. The balance of the State's accounts ranged from 900 million bracelets at the beginning of the year to 2 billion 800 million bracelets as at 1 November 2001. [[Think about that figure!]] Treasury justified the existence of such balances by the alleged surplus, i.e. the excess of the budget's income over its expenditures, but the budget expenditure approved by law was within 60-85 per cent. In the final fiscal year, the Treasury committed a gross violation of the requirements of the Budget Code and, by its order of 7 December 2001, prohibited any expenditure, except for the financing of protected articles. What were the consequences? Accounts and expenditure began to be paid only in the fourth quarter, from 25 December. But budget allocations could no longer be fully utilized. The managers of the budget, due to the lack of technological time, had been reimbursed to the State budget, which, in turn, had led to the establishment of accounts payable by budgetary organizations. In that regard, I would like to highlight another aspect of budgetary management. The Ministry of Finance constantly assures us of the limited budgetary financial resources. The State Treasury assures us of control over the commitment process of budget managers. Everything seems to be right, the lack of funds is felt by each of us, especially the heads of budgetary organizations. But how, then, can we explain the annual diversion of significant budgetary resources to receivables?Oh, my God! At the beginning of this year, there was an increase of $4 billion in receivables! That is 10 per cent of the total cost of our budget! In the face of a sharp budget deficit, such “gifts” are simply unacceptable. At the same time, the accounts payable by the budgetary institutions as a result of the year amounted to $2 billion, which is essentially a hidden deficit of the State and local budgets of Ukraine. But that amount will have to be paid, and none of it will be paid. Sixth. How do we use the State Budget funds? A significant amount of budget is spent illegally, not on purpose or ineffectively. Last year, the auditors of the Court of Auditors identified numerous violations of budgetary legislation, illegal as well as ineffective spending of the State budget and public extrabudgetary funds totalling 3 billion 400 million dollars, or 18 million dollars. Out of these funds, 2 billion and 140 million bracelets are spent illegally! Particularly many violations of public funds are allowed in the Mintopenergo system, as well as in the ministries of health, education and science. I will not give specific examples; they are given in the newsletters of the Court of Auditors, which are regularly sent to the Supreme Council. Seven. We can't say anything about the Gosbudget special fund. For the first time, the special fund was approved by the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2000. Subsequently, the legal rules governing the establishment of the special fund were enshrined in the Budget Code. The main objective of the establishment of the special fund was to concentrate all resources, particularly extrabudgetary funds, on their equitable and controlled distribution. Since the establishment of the special fund, there has been a clear trend towards increasing its share weight, both in the State budget and in the expenditure of individual budget managers. This could be seen as positive, but the analysis showed that often, if not generally, public institutions received the income of a special fund while performing their direct public functions. Fund costs are incurred without budget dissipation, i.e. who wants to, and the necessary controls, at the discretion of the heads of agencies and in many cases in violation of legislation. I don't have much time left, and I'm only going to give one example. In 2001, budgetary institutions and organizations received funds from legal and natural persons to carry out individual mandates, as well as donations and donations of $1 billion,193 million. [[Just think about it!]] Curiosity and a list of public administrations “declared” at the field of fundraising and charity. For example, the Ministry of the Interior, through the above funds, incurred $310 million in 2001, the Security Service, 122 million, the State Border Protection Committee, 94 million, the Ministry of Defence, almost 95 million, and the State Tax Administration, nearly 72 million. I think further comments are unnecessary, all right. The tax plan for the common fund, from which public spending is being made, has been under-achieved by 1.5 billion grevens, and the collection of more than 1 billion greaves of charitable contributions has been on our shoulders. And there are many such examples. All these incomes and expenditures have been made through a special fund. Therefore, in advance of the establishment and approval of the State budget for 2003, all income and expenditure under the special fund should be carefully analysed in order to maximize their implementation through the common fund. This should be done directly and directly by the Ministry of Finance. And the last. Many failures in the budget process are due to the lack of understanding of the role and substance of financial control as a system in the country. A draft Law on State Financial Control has been drafted for a long time, a draft Law on Budgetary Control has been initiated in parallel, and the draft Act on General Audit and Audit Administration is under consideration. This is because, to date, no general concept of public financial control has been defined by the supervisory authorities and their functions. I hope that the newly elected Supreme Council, the distinguished people's deputies, will eventually be able to address this issue in a systematic manner. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consult. We agreed to take a 15 - minute break at 1:00. Why not listen to questions and answers to questions, and then immediately after the break, let us move on to the presentations? Is there no objection? Please sign up for the question. The questions and answers are in ten minutes. Please put the list on the board. National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u82	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Fatherland's Party. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u83	People's MP Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u84	Valentina Costinovich! I've been listening to your speeches from the rostrum for the past five years. They are anxious, painful, filled with facts. Tell me, is it just because the government is working badly that we have the same violations? How can we fight this evil? A criminal offense is committed against the person who stole 100 dollars, and those who steal hundreds of millions, billions of dollars, remain unpunished. We hand over the material to the Attorney General’s Office, but no criminal proceedings have been committed in the past five years. What should we do next?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u85	When I finished my statement, I must have answered your question. I said there was a principle of collective irresponsibility. Can we today present claims to respectable Yusko for shortcomings in matters for which he is not responsible? We have no right to file claims against him for these shortcomings. We, the Court of Auditors, inform the Supreme Council for Decision-making. By law, we can't make any decisions, not even reparations. We inform the Cabinet of Ministers, inform the President of almost all matters. All the numbers I used to call my signature went away at exactly the right time. I can tell you that with the arrival of the Government of China, we are systematically answered throughout the year. Some, yes, some, do not, as they say, tighten up and lay them down. The specific people responsible for the violations are not responsible, but at least they are responsible. So I'm seeing some kind of positive dynamic. But at the heart of all of this is a matter of legislative power. You have adopted amendments to article 98 of the Constitution and have voted in favour of 300 deputies. Where are the changes to the Constitution? Where is our right to control the income part of the budget? This is where Mr. Cloud was asking about the revenue from gas transit. We know that the 2.9 billion we should have received from the gas transit had to be given to the poorest. Why didn't that money come? We can make that point, and in detail I cannot answer that question because I am not allowed to be admitted to the primary documents as President of the Court of Auditors! There's no law! Make the law!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u86	National Deputy Alexiyuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u87	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Montenegro, Volodymyr Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u88	National Deputy Cherniak Volodymyr Kirilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u89	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Valentina Konstantinovich! I ask you to summarize your report in the context of such questions. Why has the government failed to ensure the implementation of the State Budget? As a rule, it is now emphasized that the budget was unrealistic. Do you share that view? What is the reason: In the unrealisticity of the budget or in the inability, insurmountable, unwillingness to carry it out? What's the government's fault, what's the Supreme Council's fault? And there's another side to the question that we've been talking about. How can the responsibility of both government members, officials and deputies be increased in the implementation of the budget? What mechanisms must work to bring an end to the vacchanal of irresponsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u90	On the first fundamental question of whether the budget was real, I can say exactly that it was real. Look at the statements made by both the President of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister, and almost all the Deputy Prime Ministers after the adoption of the budget, who all viewed it as realistic and feasible. Why did he become unrealistic and unfulfilled? First of all, because many view the budget as a summary of the costs that they give to MPs to compare by doing the analysis in principle: plus-minus, not planned or implemented. Not implemented why? In the 2001 Budget Act, 77 articles, 15 of which had to be immediately decided by the Government to ensure the implementation of those articles. I can tell you that almost all of these articles have been decided by the Government either with or without much delay. That's the answer to your second question. The third question you asked me. I can't do a general summary, it's not in my purview. All the facts are set out, you decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u91	Thank you. National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u92	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Valentin Konstantinovich! I listened to you characterize a special fund, and I got the impression that it was an army of marauders. Do you think that this special fund should be retained in the future, given the upcoming discussions on the draft budget? That's the first question. And the second question. The idea of a consortium is now welcomed, although as such no one has seen the project, but many are already discussing it. Will that add something to our budget for next year or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u93	The fact that the consortium will not add anything to the budget for the coming year is 100 per cent, that is not to be proved here. As for the special fund, the idea is that all government money, spending, income should go through the budget, and there should be no cash in both income and expenditure. [[and so is done in many countries of the world]] Therefore, when we consider the introduction of a special fund in dynamics, it all began to be the right thing to do. But it needs to be further developed. And given the mistakes of the past, including those of the 2001 budget, do not leave such corridors where our BSPs spend tens, if not hundreds, of millions of dollars on donations. You'd think the FBI got the charity money. Because we don't control our income, we're asking you to decipher these charities. Whosoever is a benefactor is the essence of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u94	People's deputy Pauluk, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u95	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[Election District 137, Odessa Region]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. I have a first question for you as a meeting. Is it true that we are listening to such a serious question that has failed in the absence of those who have failed it? Today we see only one minister of finance who, of course, cannot answer for everything that is going on, as we are talking about today. I'd like to ask the Minister of Transport a specific question, here I have full control of the situation, and I know how many millions of dollars are not bracelets, but dollars! - didn't go into the budget. And as we haven't raised these issues in a year, they remain unresolved. And by the decision of the panel in front of me, two days ago it was signed by the Minister of Transport, this issue will be considered only at the end of this year, i.e. the budget will continue to suffer losses. Here's a question for you, Valentin Konstantinovich. Could you take responsibility and consider the question of how much was lost, who was allowed to do so, so that the situation could not be rectified by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u96	Of course, as it is said, both knowledge and skills are sufficient, let us give the mandate of the Supreme Council, and we will resolve this matter. They tell us not to control it, but to analyze the income. That's the point. All very literate lawyers, and I support them, that everything should be within the law. Therefore, give a separate commission, and we will be happy to do so. We're happy to do it!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u97	Thank you, Valentin Costinovich. I'm in charge of the Pavlück People's Deputy. The fact that the Cabinet of Ministers is not fully composed today in discussing such an important, key issue as the 2001 budget implementation report is an error, we hope that this error will be corrected when discussing the draft budget resolution. If the government is gone again, it will show that there is no desire to work together with Parliament and to solve the problems facing the country together. Dear National Deputies! A 15 - minute break is announced in accordance with our agreement. The meeting will resume at 13 o’clock for 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies! Please come into the session room, we'll continue our work. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to come into the session room so that we can continue our work. I want to inform you, honourable national MPs, what's going on in direct broadcasting, and we need to show you how actively, productively and effectively we work. Dear National Deputies! Here we are going to discuss the government's report on the implementation of Ukraine's 2001 State Budget. Now we have to listen to the factions. We agreed that from each faction to five minutes. They've recorded the factions' performances: Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich is a block of Yulia Timoshenko, the Moroz Alexander Alexander -- the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Other national MPs have signed up for committee presentations. And Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the factions. Is there a Turk named Alexander Valentinovich? None. Frost Alexander Alexanderovich? Not yet. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Please. Peter Mikolaiovich is from the Communist Party of Ukraine. If there is a commission, you can speak from three factions. May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u99	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! From year to year, noodles have been successfully hanged: there it is, the most socially oriented and economically progressive budget. And at the same time, nothing is done to stop the constant abuse of power over the bloodless monetary economy, the withdrawal of monetary policy, free privatization, restructuring, liberalisation, wild tax policy, etc. Despite all the unimaginable growth, growth, stability, and other successes, the 2001 government budget has failed. And what's interesting is that by December 1, last year, according to the State Statistical Committee, the budgets, both the consolidated and the State, were made with a surplus of 982 million dollars and 488 million dollars respectively. Just one month passed, and according to the same committee and the Ministry of Finance, both budgets have been reduced to a deficit of 1.2 billion dollars and 1.3 billion dollars respectively. Where in a month did more than 2 billion dollars of the budget go and 1.8 billion dollars of the State budget? And if you add to that the amount of the outstanding VAT is 5.8 billion dollars, the non-payment of the so-called monetary privatization is 3.2 billion dollars, the debt of the social payments is 48.5 million dollars, you can say that the financial gap has reached about 10 billion dollars, or more than a quarter of the annual revenue to the State budget. At the same time, the amount of taxes paid to taxpayers last year was 1.3 times higher than the government budget and stood at 51.2 billion dollars. This is certainly a separate issue of total corruption, both in the Cabinet of Ministers and in all the executive structures, and this is a problem for the Public Prosecutor's Office. Again, the cost of gas transit is not budgeted. In the plan of 2.4 billion dollars, $1.9 million is not enough. Small money just disappears from our budget. There's no income tax -- 312 million dollars. With the ineffective use of external and domestic borrowings, the need for financial loans became chronic, and Ukraine became a debt trap for a long time. On the other hand, we turn to the government: Who and what will be counted for these so - called injections in the future? Whenever the answer is clear and clear, the faction of the Communists has repeatedly stressed: it will be the response of the many-suffering people of Ukraine. Because the next year, in 2003, the amount of external debt payments will be $1.6 billion, that's about 9 billion dollars, that's 15 percent of the government budget's planned revenue. All of this is practically due to the destruction of social programs in Ukraine. At the same time, no government since 1999, apart from the stated purposes and restructuring, has done anything to prevent the debt crisis, rather than dealing with the management and development of the economy, the investment of specific funds, the creation of new jobs and the introduction of new technologies. [[Why do our officials love this word?]] As we know, the cost structure is an indicator of the priority of a function of the state. What is the socio-economic orientation of the State budget when last year's debt service expenditure was 4.2 billion dollars, in support of the economy - 2.2 billion dollars, in science - 0.7, in education - 3.5 billion dollars - in health care - 1.1 billion dollars, in culture and art - only 125 million dollars? It should be noted that these modest costs were actually financed by 70-90 percent. Let us stress that 60 percent of the social payments are funded on the basis of borrowed funds, unpaid VAT, unpaid wages, and other social benefits, i.e. on the basis of socially protected budget articles. Isn't it a shame when the untaxed minimum wage for today is still 17 dollars, and the total rate of wage fund withdrawal is almost 40 percent? Of course, in the accounting report of various shareholders, there are sticky amounts of the wage. Lipova appears, and the main one is sitting in the pockets of so-called employers. With regard to the use of State budget funds, the violation of existing legislation has become the norm. Virtually every government official violates Ukraine’s basic economic law, which no matter what articles we touch. To our deep conviction, at such a course of so - called radical market reforms, Ukraine will have long as an orphan to sit on the road to the promised paradise in mourning clothing and suffer from diseases caused by her so - called national elite. And finally, dear colleagues. The state budget has long become fiction, not law, by the way, and many others. Even the inventor and embezzler of radical market reforms realized whether or not we have learned today that we are actually going backwards -- in the direction of dismantling the powerful potential of our economy, and no one is personally responsible for crimes in terms of using budget funds. The Communist faction insists that a negative assessment of the government’s implementation of the 2001 budget should be made. But it should be borne in mind that this is a budget whose ideology was prepared by the government of Yushchenka, who was responsible for its implementation for six months, and the government of Kinakh is responsible for the implementation of the budget in six months. And another offer. As a result of the government’s report on budget implementation, on the beliefs of the Communists, the Office of the Attorney General should be urgently called upon to file a criminal case. For if the basic economic law is not being implemented, then we must give the answer: What kind of state do we have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u100	Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko I ask the speakers to follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u101	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! You and I have heard a report from the government on the implementation of the 2001 budget. And you know, of course, that's a very sad summary of the budget implementation, which is also evidenced by the statement by the head of the budget committee, and by the head of the accounting office. I'm not going to repeat all the numbers, but the principles of position need to be stressed. A three billion share of the budget has not been implemented. Some 6 billion manufacturers have not been reimbursed for value added taxes, other overpaid taxes. So the budget gap, the budget imbalance is not really 3 but 9 billion dollars. And of course, the main problem that the reporters were talking about today is 3.4 billion dollars of unearmarked use of funds. At the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Court of Auditors does not have local representations, it has no infrastructure to actually verify the use of budgetary resources, it did sample checks, so it can be predicted that it was actually stolen and used not at least twice as much budget. I can predict which version of the ruling will be proposed and submitted by many people's deputies, i.e. the government's report does not accept, the work of the Cabinet of Ministers will be considered unsatisfactory and the materials transferred to the Attorney General's Office. But, dear colleagues, last year we made the same decision, in the past year -- the same determination, and no conclusion was reached by the government. Similarly, the power structures did not make any proposals. I would like to remind you that our Criminal Code provides for up to eight years in prison for violating budgetary legislation for purposeless use of funds. No official from the President's Office or from the Cabinet of Ministers or from local administrations has been punished. And obviously, it's a system, and it's our power structures, instead of protecting the state from breaking up the budget, it's just that they know how to do things, to make things work, to pursue positions. They're able to do that, and they're able to take hold of a criminal who's been blowing billions of state funds into the wind that's being transferred to offshore companies that are funded by the pro-President political campaign, not by the Attorney General's Office, not by other power structures. So, dear colleagues, our faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko offers such proposals. By supporting the traditional proposals for non-acceptance of the report, the recognition of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in the execution of the budget as unsatisfactory, the transfer of materials to the Henprocuratorium, we offer additionally: to recognize the unsatisfactory work of the State Tax Administration, which is unable to raise funds to a budget that can only eliminate taxpayers; to recognize the discontent of the work of the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the investigation of budgetary crimes. We demand and will propose in our draft regulations that no later than September, when the next session of the Supreme Council begins, we hear a report from the force structures on how to respond to budget violations, how to detect fiscal crimes. The Court of Auditors provided sufficient information for this purpose. And only after we've been given specific information on how budget crimes are being investigated and how criminals in public office are being punished can we start looking at the draft budget for 2003. Otherwise, it will again be a traditional waste that will not give the country or our citizens anything useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u102	National MP Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! The situation with the budget is just a reflection of the state of things in the state that has emerged today. We have authority that is cruel, even cruel, but never once has it affected those who are responsible for the violation of budgetary discipline. Why? And because they're their own. They're stealing theirs, so there's no "question," in Russian, to say the least. That's right: the increase in gross product, you don't hide it, it's the nation's general financial resource, it's 9.1 percent. Neither the minister nor the other rapporteurs, the head of the Court of Auditors, including, could explain how the budget was not up to date when general financial resources increased. Why is there no VAT return under such conditions? If you look at it, look at it in sum, 20 percent of budget failure -- and it's okay. Then, a month later, as Peter Mikolaiovich said, estimates change in principle to the opposite. I mean, as long as we have to campaign for effective power before the elections, we have to say that it's okay, and then we can tell the truth. These are political speculations around the budget. They have traditionally continued for many and many years. Once again, the talks begin that we will not accept the budget until laws are passed that guarantee the income portion of the budget. Everyone understands perfectly that the law does not allow this to happen, they know that such laws will not be passed, because those who are aspiring should pass such bills. There's no such thing. But once again they break the same subject, they repeat it, speculating that people just don't understand what they're talking about. And it reflects on the life positions, on the incomes of a particular citizen. Let's see, the government budget is down, the local budgets are down, the producer accounts are down, 46 percent of the enterprises are down. And the question is, where is the money, maybe people got it? Because it's 9.1 percent growth. No, it turns out, even to the living minimum, wages did not increase in 2001 -- 311 dollars, not issued, but credited. And the total debt is about 1 billion dollars! What does that mean? This means that there is no control by the state, particularly by the government, with the use of budgetary resources. And then let's look at these so-called transfers to the population. That's even a strange category. Almost 4 billion dollars go through these accounts, and this is real money. Are they paid to people or not? No, it's not. They are paid for structures that seem to provide assistance to people in the pursuit of their social needs, and so forth. And these are usually different gas stations, utilities, companies in district administrations that put and price their services and budget for their own benefit, and people don't have any of that. If these are transfers to the population, then the question is, would it not be easier to distribute these 4 billion if they were actually generated and reflected in GDP, to put them in people's hands? It'll be for a pensioner about 35 bucks. And then you don't have to talk about address aid, and you don't have to take this problem out of the way, and you don't have to lie in people's eyes, because it doesn't do anything, and it actually goes through the money that's been approved as the cost of specific people. I won't talk about expenses. It was called "Secondestre" and no one was authorized. The law is broken by three billion dollars. Who will be responsible? So it's only possible to say this: if you put together the government's achievements and the need for social finance, the percentage would be very low, and there's no reason to talk about positive distortions. [[I'm not calling now the numbers that have already been repeated today.]] I'm even surprised how we could talk today about a big perspective if we couldn't put order in the state in basic things? It's about charity. It's terrible alone, indeed! Everyone understands that it is a mere government racket when the tax office, the police, and other structures twist the hands of those involved in production or business. And these are just the amounts you can't hide because they've already gone through the accounts. [[1.2 billion]] It's a "merce" for generals, it's a Euro-renovation, it's a building of churches in certain districts, or it's a distribution of computer classes in certain districts for certain people, and then people say in elections, "Yeah, right, it's, you know, a thief, but it's ours. He doesn't just steal." So I agree that we need to transfer the materials to the prosecution, but it's the same thing, we need to talk, and everyone knows it. We need to change the system of power to be responsible for society's capital, as is done, for example, in other countries where the budgetary process is a permanent and fundamental process for Parliament and for all power structures. And we're doing this just to make people's eyes feel better and keep stealing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u104	The Black People's Deputy of the faction "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u105	Dear National Deputies! The government did not ensure that the budget was implemented. This, as Ostap Bender said, is a medical fact. But perhaps we cannot limit ourselves to this. We need to answer the questions that are the main reasons why, in increasing production and improving overall economic performance, the State's basic economic law, the State Budget Act, has not been implemented. The reason isn't the unrealisticity of the budget, and we need to break the myth of the unrealisticity of the budget that they're trying to cover up right now. I share the idea that we can talk about the unrealisticity of privatization. In fact, the moment of reality was still there. But in general, the reason is not the unrealisticity of the budget. We need to determine what the government is guilty of and what the Supreme Council is guilty of. And I wouldn't want to just shift the arrow to the government. Although, of course, the government is reporting on the budget, but I don't think the Supreme Council can take the blame for not executing the budget last year. Hence, the reasons for failure. The general and main reason for the failure to implement the 2001 State Budget is the inadequacy and inefficiencies of fiscal and tax policies. That's the most general reason I think everyone admits. And only in this context can we understand why the budget is not implemented. What more specific reasons are there for the 2001 budget failure? The first reason is the low level of payment discipline of business subjects and the imperfection of the current tax administration system. On January 1, 2002, there were 6.3 billion dollars of tax debt. As of January 1, 2002, 5.8 billion VAT dollars remained unreparable from the budget. This is 1.5 times more than at the beginning of 2001. So the first reason is in the low level of payment discipline and in the imperfections of tax administration. The second reason is the tax write-off. The Supreme Council constantly cheats on tax debts. We respond to the needs of our constituents, and that is understandable. Twenty - four billion dollars of tax debt have been written down, but tax evasion continues to grow again this year. And it's the tax understatement that's the black hole that's running out of budget. Budgets are also settled in creditors’ debt. So the debt problem is multidimensional and multidimensional. There is no solution to the problem of debt in the state: both state and business, and fiscal debt, and wages. And without solving this problem, the budget will not be implemented, no matter what government it is. The third reason is the availability of budget holes. It's a gas-transport system, natural monopolies, free zones. And that's where we need to look for these funds. The fourth reason is the granting of unwarranted benefits. During 2001, 33 new benefits were introduced by laws adopted by the Supreme Council. This is what we did here, in this room, and the budget lost about 1 billion dollars of revenue. And if you take the total of all the benefits, that's about 30 billion dollars! Maybe there's a more accurate figure, and the statistics are getting better now. The fifth reason is the excessive tax pressure and the uneven distribution of taxes. There's pressure, they run into the shadows, but the problem is not only that much less tax pressure, it's the uniformity of tax distribution. [[Although it's very important.]] Some pay intolerable taxes, others avoid paying taxes in general. Without solving this problem, we will not be able to solve the problem of budgeting. The sixth reason is the violation of legislation in the implementation of the State Budget Act, the theft of budgetary resources, the vachanal of irresponsibility -- no one is responsible for this, no criminal proceedings have been committed. So the problem of budget implementation is not solved. And finally, the seventh reason: the government works without an approved program of activity, the government works without the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the President has dedicated it to us. I think all these reasons in general gave us the picture we have. If we are to treat the disease, it is not the symptoms of the disease that need to be affected. The "Our Ukraine" faction supports the budget committee's draft Supreme Council ruling on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u106	From the faction of "The One Ukraine" is the National Deputy Dashutin. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u107	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[constituency 163, Sumska oblast]] Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Today’s consideration of the matter is urgent. The Turkish MP correctly said that this was the same issue that we discussed last year, and the work of the Cabinet of Ministers was considered unsatisfactory. So today, I propose to look at this problem in a slightly different way. If we return to the adoption of the budget last year, we will see that we have adopted it, taking into account the adopted budget code. And the problems that have arisen with the formation of local budgets, and in general with regard to the adoption of the Budget Code, are transitional. Our little mistake is that we are not defined in the Budget Code with concepts of transition. If you look at the situation in general, there are some positive decisions, and at the same time there are many complaints from the Cabinet of Ministers, such as the Ministry of Finance. But let's look at a problem that's only caused by the relationship between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. When we adopted the 2002 budget, we set out the first task -- to save for all the categories of the benefit population provided for in 42 laws. And we remember that there was silence in the hall for a few minutes when we decided on these benefits because we realized that we would not be able to carry them out because it took about 30 billion dollars to finance all these benefits. And at the same time, we realize that without an address aid law, we will never solve the problem of benefits. This is a problem common to the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. That's the first one. The other one. We adopted in our first reading a draft of the Law on Stately Pension Insurance. But we realize that adequate pensions will not be provided until we resolve the issue of taxation of individuals. So today, when you pay 40 percent of your salary fund, you have about 70 percent of your pocket salary. [[these numbers are called]] It's also a matter of budget filling, and it needs a solution both by the Supreme Council and by the Cabinet of Ministers. Third. Tax code. We see that additional sources of budgeting have been found in Russia, and we have not found them to date. The same income tax for citizens in Russia is 13 percent, resulting in a double or triple increase in income from natural persons. That is why the issue is also urgent, and it needs to be addressed both by the Supreme Council and by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the last. I want to stop at the issue of tax collection at all places. When I worked with the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, I noticed that 90 percent of the heads of the village councils today don’t understand their functions at all, they don’t know how to collect taxes. Take, for example, a village that has 400 or 500 courtyards. The head of the village council does not collect taxes at all and waits for the money to be given to him from the top of Kiev. It's nonsense. We have to solve this question, and the Local Government Act ensures that taxes are collected so that at least those villages that have their own infrastructure can afford it. Why? Because when you ask, can't 800 dollars be collected in the village today to pay a doctor’s salary at the FAP or a teacher, the answer is yes. Why, then, do we still look forward to receiving help from Kiev? So the problems that we have to solve in the Law on Local Self - Rule affect the situation of the coming of funds to the budget that we are considering with you today. Without solving these problems, we will say in the following year that the Cabinet of Ministers is not like this, and the Minister of Finance has not provided funding and so on. So, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask the question that we're looking at in this area: let's share with the Cabinet of Ministers the responsibility for budget execution. Indeed, the faction "The One Ukraine" acknowledges that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers is not sufficient, but we must determine that what it is is is not enough belongs to our Hall and what is the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u108	Thank you. From the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine there will be performances? [[united]] Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to committee presentations. They signed up for the speeches by the committees. Could I have the information on the board, please? National Deputy Kalinchuk of the Agrarian Committee. Please. It takes up to five minutes. I ask, honourable national MPs, to observe the rules, to be concise, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u109	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[constituency 144, Odessa Region]] Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For the sake of justice, it must be said that in recent years the peasants have sensed to some extent that the state is supporting them in the development of the agricultural sector. This includes, inter alia, partial compensation for the interest on bank credit, the renewal of the income tax regime by value added tax, the payment for the sale of livestock of high-weighted conditions, the collection for the development of grapes, gardening, hops, and so on. The use of these measures has enabled a somewhat stable economic situation in the agri-industrial complex, increased incomes and businesses, which in turn has contributed to increased revenues from them to the budget. As a result, last year, from an agro-industry complex to a consolidated budget, $5.2 billion was compared to 4.6 billion in 2000. However, as highlighted in the explanatory note prepared by the budgetary committee for the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2001, article 7 of the Ukrainian Budget Code was violated in part of the proportionality of the financing of the budget. The Government budget for the 2001 agro-industry package is 1.3 billion dollars, but the sector is funded by only 78 percent, much less than other sectors. What is the support for the agrarian reforms that are being implemented in the APC in accordance with Ukrainian laws and Presidential decrees on the priority of the sector? For example, land reform costs less than 80 percent of what was planned by the Supreme Council to pay for the work on land improvement. It should be noted that the entire financing of the agri-industrial complex is not in any position. Yes, the article "Agriculture Production" is funded by only 59 percent, and some positions are funded by 41-49 percent. One of the main areas of agricultural production is the selection of animals, birds and plants, funded by only 67 percent respectively. What future can we discuss in this regard? A serious epizootic situation in Western countries as well as in neighboring areas of animal disease requires that Ukraine scrutinize and strengthen its antiepizootic efforts in animal production. Thank God our country is in such trouble. Everyone understands that this problem is also closely related to health care. Antiepizootic measures, however, are funded by only 75 percent. The purchase of home technology under lysing conditions is funded by only 6.4 percent. Today, the president of Ukraine spoke about this in his annual letter. I just want to emphasize that the basic types of agricultural technology are more than 90 percent worn out, morally and physically obsolete. In 2001, the Government Budget Act envisaged 2.8 million dollars for the modernization and maintenance of agricultural appliances. In fact, only 1 million dollars have been allocated from the budget at 50 million dollars. The 2002 budget does not provide a single copy for this purpose. This is for help. It is no longer my desire to draw the attention of the deputies and the government to the disastrous social, educational, and health conditions of the country. However, the government has systematically ignored the requirements of existing legislation in part of providing State support to this area in the form of annual government budgets. Even small investment that is being made is usually underfunded. Yes, in 2001, only 46 million dollars were available for the social needs of the village in the state budget, or 20 times less than the Social Development Act. However, they are funded only 73 percent. Tell me, how can peasants here understand government action? An explanation of the 2001 government budget's income and expenditure deficits indicates that the granting of taxes to farmers under the tax-added tax regime resulted in the loss of a budget of 861 million dollars. I think it's wrong because it's kind of an investment. Because these benefits enabled agricultural production to be revived and the budget to be added by 0.6 billion dollars, to increase production of grains and other products, to reduce debt from wages, to increase payments to the Pension Fund. It should be noted that the financing of the agrarian sector generally does not take into account the specificities of the sector, the unethicality and the transfer of time limits for the allocation to producers of budgetary resources, which has a negative impact on the development of one or the other sub-sectors. Taking into account the approach to financing the agri-industrial complex, we can conclude that the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers do not yet correspond to the situation in the village in the process of deep economic transformation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u110	From the Committee on Science and Education, the word is given to Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u111	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Multi-mandatory state-run constituency "Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! When you look at the development of budget operations in ten years, in 2000 and 2001, these operations had the brightest indicators. For example, for the first time in 2001, substantial changes were made to the so - called special fund for four and a half billion dollars. These budget receipts were made by 3 billion dollars. But this shows how well additional revenue has been put into the budget. Now, with regard to education and science, the budget articles are protected. The Foundation for Fundamental Research - a protected article - 400 million is planned in the budget and 395 million are implemented; education - a protected article - 1 billion 592 million is planned, 1 billion 571 million are implemented. Thus, the implementation of the protected articles on education and science by the 2001 budget was good. But in general, compared to budgeted costs, education is underfunded by 340 million, or 10 percent, fundamental research by 200 million, or 20 percent, state information programme by 5 million, or 60 percent. In general, education is underfunded in the state systematically, and underfunding is at a critical level. If 3 billion dollars were needed in 2001 to implement article 57 of the Education Act, in 2002, 5 billion dollars were missing, and we are jumping into an educational gap. In education, you have to make a certain amount of assimilation. The teacher now receives between 160 and 190 dollars a month after university. This leads to a departure from the school of young teachers. Sadly, elderly teachers live in conditions of systematic and humiliating shortages, additional school fights, and gifts. As a result, the purity of education disappears, and children become accustomed to cunning, deceit, and bribery. This can lead to a complete educational crisis. The introduction of scientific development into production is the most unsolvable task in the state. Counting on science is insufficient and uneven. It should be noted which direction in science needs to be financed first. It's a foundational research fund. In Russia, for example, this fund is one of the most authoritative budget articles and is fully funded. We have this foundation headed by the Academy of Bones -- a man of great integrity, one of the most outstanding scientists in biology in the former Soviet Union and now in Ukraine. The selection of scientific topics is the most qualified and objective. However, 1.5 million dollars were allocated to the foundational research fund. In general, the research fund lacks 120 million dollars a year. And it's also a characteristic fact. Foreign support for fundamental research reached 570 million dollars in 2001. And our own budget support is 516 million dollars. For the first time, external support is greater than its own budget allocations. The West buys our fundamental results, and we buy modern technology in the West. This must be a fact both for the government and for the Parliament, a significant demonstration of how important the results of research are to us in the state and how foolishly we manage them. And another interesting fact is export-import intellectual services. According to the State Department, exports of intellectual services amount to 39 million, and imports of intellectual services are 39 million. It's particularly about servicing business plans, foreign investment and equity by foreign firms. Thus, the level of education of society plays an extremely important role in public construction. In conclusion, let me sum it up. Financing education and science in general is not enough. We need to double the salary, modernize the classrooms and science labs, print textbooks, inform schools, and fully finance fundamental research, especially the foundational research fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u112	Gennady Josephovich Udovenko, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Smaller and International Relations. Please, Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations throughout 2001, within its competence, monitored compliance with the State Budget Act 2001. The issue of the financing of newspapers issued in the languages of national minorities, the setting up of deported persons, the maintenance of temporary placement facilities for refugees, has been repeatedly discussed at committee meetings, and as a result, we have drawn the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to the need to increase funding in the field of migration policy and human rights as a whole. Unfortunately, it should be noted that none of the above-mentioned directions have been fully funded, even though the funding budget was at the minimum level. To avoid being loud, I'll give you some numbers. The measures involved the return of the Crimean Tatar people and persons of other nationalities who had been illegally deported from Ukraine included 45 million dollars, and the funding was 80 percent. This is also true of the temporary placement of refugees, the satisfaction of the cultural and educational needs of national minorities, the financing of the Voice of Ukraine and the additions to the newspaper, which are issued in the languages of national minorities. It is already embarrassing for our neighbors from Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, where Ukrainian newspapers are published at the expense of the state budget. This is a huge problem for us, even though we are proud of solving national problems in our country. And when it comes to financing, it's not going to cost. Our official's mentality is that he doesn't recognize the problem of a multinational Ukraine. The title nation is definitely suffering, and the national minority is even more. Ukraine, for example, joined the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees last year, and the Supreme Council passed the Refugee Law. However, from the budget of a meager amount of 10,000 to 10,000! - there's not a penny left for the refugees. Thousands of people have sought refuge in Ukraine, and we are so indifferent to them. The human rights apparatus of the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not receive more than 100,000 dollars for its activities. In general, it seems that the issue of human rights is financed by a residual principle. Although there is no separate line in the budget, this is clearly illustrated by the financing of the judicial branch. Because it is the courts that are the most effective tool for protecting human rights. Thus, the district and city courts, which, without exaggeration, work in extreme conditions, are underfunded by 25 million dollars last year, which is the fifth part of the need. That's why it takes months to deal with even very resonant cases, and at that time people whose guilt has not been proven in court for years, I emphasize, have been in detention. That's how we are today. Procedures for judicial reform, which are already mentioned as much, are funded in the same proportion as the courts, or almost five times less than planned. These are the sad numbers in the government report. The year 2001 is over, and all we have to do is take note and confirm or not approve this report. But we need to draw conclusions, especially on the pre-approval of the Basic Policy Guidelines for 2003 and on the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We need to change our approach and priorities. Human rights and socio-economic and spiritual needs must be an essential criterion of government policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u114	Thank you. National MP Mikola Tomenko of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u115	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear colleagues! Today's unique situation, because in fact Parliament is looking at the most plausible thing that Parliament should be talking about, and the government, and the whole society -- this thing is called the budget. Two principles of Parliamentary meetings, as defined by all European parliamentary countries, are a report on budget implementation and budget adoption. Since we live in a paradoxical country, this is not a valid question for us, since after a break, the radio broadcast on the Ukrainian radio has been excluded. While the minister of finance and representing the government was speaking, there was a broadcast, after the factions and committees started speaking, the broadcast ended. It seems to me that this is a very good indicator of how transparent we have the budgetary process and how much the government would like to hear its position. Another thesis. When we look at the budget figures, we'll see that there's, in my opinion, a paradoxical discrepancy between what the government is doing and what it wants us to feel about society. If we open up a draft ruling prepared by the budget committee on page 9, we'll see some very interesting things. Here is a table of budget expenditure that had the highest level of funding, these expenditures were exceeded, and a table of government budget expenditure that had the lowest level of funding. That's a very good way of looking at it. In 2001, the lowest level of trust in society was in the army, in the law enforcement agencies, and in the authorities. This is the structure that the government has funded the most. The greatest demand in society was to solve health, culture, and art. The government funded the smallest of these chapters. Thus, the government obviously lives one life and society lives another. When it comes to the situation in the information market or in the media system, the implementation of the budget in these sections is very revealing. For example, the article “The Book of Revelation ” is funded by 47.8 percent. The library is funded by 65 percent. Support for children's national publications in national minority languages is 50 percent. In fact, the entire field of information policy is less than half funded. Moreover, the situation is even more saddened when it turns out that even what is financed by the State is now being translated into complete uncontrolledness and shadow. On June 4, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decree on some issues of the Ukrainian National Television Company. You know that by this decree, the National Television Company is completely out of control by the Supreme Council and sent to autonomous financial navigation. In the past, the National Television has also worked illegally, since according to the Television and Radio Act, the Supreme Council should determine the principles of its activities and policy. But at least then the State Information Policy Committee seemed to control it. Following this decision, the National Television Company, which we, the Ukrainian people, are funding, tax payers, through the decision of the Supreme Council, is becoming completely uncontrollable. The president of the television company can create any commercial structure and raise questions about funding a particular commercial structure. The labour force of the National Television does not have the ability to influence decision-making at all. In theory, the Cabinet of Ministers can create a supervisory board that will eventually control the National Television Company. Of course, this decree is contrary to both the Constitution and the existing legislation. I think our committee will be offering to respond to such actions in the Cabinet of Ministers in the near future. But the sad thing is, on the one hand, there's underfunding and on the other hand there's funding that's full of closure and uncontrolledness. This speaks for itself. If this situation doesn't get better in the near future, I think we're going to continue to see that on the national channels funded by the State Budget, the number of Dikaňeks, Yakubovics, will increase, and the number of Ukrainian journalists who are being asked to go to other structures today, because there are meters of Russian journalism coming to take on Ukrainian budget. Therefore, to my firm conviction, and the situation that has arisen as a whole in the budgetary area, particularly in the field of the media, confirms the assessment proposed by the Committee on Budget Affairs, and I am joining it: the work of the Office of Ministers on the implementation of the 2001 budget is to be considered unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u116	Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u117	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! I'm going to address some of the particular issues that are within the competence of the committee that I'm tasked with leading. With regard to issues of State - built construction. An analysis of the implementation of the 2001 budget strongly shows the urgent need for administrative reform and a reduction in the cost of maintaining public authorities. Consider for yourself: Government expenditure for 2001 amounted to more than 2.5 billion, more than 20 percent in 2000, 2.4 times more than in 1999, but the quality of governance did not change in terms of improvement, but rather in terms of efficiency. A separate study requires the topic of norms and methods for determining the extent of funding for one or more branches of government, one or the other ministries. What parameters, for example, can be explained by the fact that the consumption of expenditure on the maintenance of executive bodies in total expenditure reached 7.4 percent, and their growth rate by 2000 was ahead of the growth rate of the total public budget expenditure by 2.6 times. Among the ministries and branches of government, it turns out that there are better and worse. Again, it is not clear what method others and others are using. Yes, the privileged status of the state tax service is unclear. The level of funding for this service exceeded the average expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget as a whole and the level of government expenditure by 7.5 percent and 6.4 percent respectively. Something similar is happening to treasury. That's what you're guarding, that's what you've got. It's not an order indicator, it's a desire for anarchy in the state. Conclusion: Normatives and methods of financing power structures should be based, transparent, and controlled. A particular subject that I can't help but touch, and it needs a serious analysis, more than that, obviously, it needs to create an investigative commission -- I mean the execution of a special state budget fund. What attracts special attention here, and I just have a misunderstanding? Finance Minister Jusko said that largely special funds are formed at the expense of confiscation. But the analysis shows that no. They are largely shaped by incomes from legal, natural, and charitable foundations. And these special funds are formed to amount to $1 billion,193 million. Who used the funds most? The Ministry of Defense, the State Committee on Border Protection, the same State Tax Administration. By the way, for the State Tax Administration, the 2001 budget did not provide for funds under the special fund at all, but 71.9 million were used. Conclusion: All of this should be governed only by laws, be transparent and controlled. This is the case: the salvation of the drowning one is the work of the drowning one himself. And obviously, the power structures have healthier hands to save themselves, and the whole budget and the country as a whole are dying today. Should we not look for answers to questions about abuse and corruption? No one has studied the nature of these funds, and no one has. For inter-budget relations and local budgets. The deficit in the implementation of the 2001 budget is that a number of important functions of local authorities have remained unfunded. And this is usually about the social sphere. In practice, funding for the maintenance of social enterprises transferred to municipal property has accounted for 36 percent of the funding. It is not clear why the Cabinet of Ministers has not approved a list of those who are exempt from the land tax with the determination of the size of the land area? [[Article 54]] This led to a lower tax rate and had a serious impact on the filling of local government budgets. Article 74 has not been complied with to determine the government’s arrangements for compensation for the costs of agricultural enterprises for the construction and maintenance of social facilities. The result: Some of the quickest abused, most of them unfortunately suffered. Lately, the list of assets and distributions of government funds has been approved. Moreover, seven times this was reviewed, which also had a negative impact on local self - government. The greatest tension was that unfunded social spheres, such as health, education, and culture, were underfunded. And this has created poor conditions for the organization of work at the level of local self-government. As a result, I support the proposals made to take a decision by the Supreme Council: the government's 2001 budget work is not satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u118	National Deputy Tanjuk Les Stepanovich of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u119	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory constituency constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Ukrainian National Movement, "Our Ukraine" faction. I am very grateful to the distinguished reporters and heads of factions who have finally started using the word "culture" in their reports. [[12 years have passed.]] This is a very high indicator for Parliament and our state. I am grateful that they have made some rather disturbing comments when it comes to culture, and I will try to explain what these really disturbing notes are doing. The financial security of the culture and art sector still uses the residual principle, leaving a number of systemic problems that have been caused by Ukraine’s global economic transformation unresolved. The main problems that took place in the 2001 budget year are these. The state budget in the field of culture and art, despite the success of the committee and the Minculture in increasing the planned expenditure, in 2001, the government implemented at the lowest level -- 64.6 percent. This means that of the planned expenditure changes of 194.6 million dollars, only 125 million dollars have been funded, including a total fund of 116.1 million dollars, or 62.8 percent. This is when total government budget expenditure is incurred by 86.8 percent, including the total fund - 88.8 percent. So you could say that people who finance culture today are 62 percent and people who don't finance culture are 88 percent. This is the balance of today's national minds. That's what Brecht used to say a long time ago: "First bread, then morality." First, let's pour beer into the cups of economic structure, then, if any foam remains, we'll throw it into culture. For several years, a new methodology has been used to calculate the amount of local budget expenditure, according to which the estimated amount of expenditure is determined by the population and the average per capita expenditure. This method is to some extent positive, but the absence of adjustment coefficients that take into account historical differences, the number of cultural establishments in one administrative unit, creates problems, in other words, the incomplete working day of cultural workers, when they work at 0.75 bets, 0.5 bets, 0.25 bets. In general, such cultural workers are 35,650, or two thirds, with which authorities can be hailed today. The fiscal system on the basis of the financial maintenance of the sector, inherited from the Soviet Union, has exhausted itself. Under the conditions of building a new system at the time of transition to financial and policy-based budgetary financing, as well as development and state support for the initiative of cultural institutions, organizations. It's about developing the industry by creating a system of non-profit organizations and taxing them. As a result of the committee's efforts last year, Parliament has made appropriate changes to the fundamentals of Ukrainian legislation on culture. So far, this principle has been established in the Tax Code. The effectiveness of the approach that is set by the committee gives first results. In 2001, culture received over 4.2 million dollars of income, or 76 percent, as a result of individual benefits to libraries, branches, archives, and museums. If the Supreme Council introduces this principle into the Tax Code, culture will be able to approach self - sufficiency. Sadly, many of us are prepared not to do so in the Tax Code. Cultural pay is the lowest in economics. And that's when the basics of cultural legislation guarantee the average wage for cultural workers is not lower than the average wage for folk farming. A steady increase in the minimum wage without an increase in the average wage in the field is undermining the inter-skilled ratio. As a result, the director of a movie theater, cultural center, or theater receives about the same rate as his regular staff. The problem of protecting museums, reserves, remains unresolved. This is done by the State Security Service, which pays several times the cost of maintaining the facility itself. We were trying to get the Ministry of Internal Affairs to get these funds out of the budget and to put this security out on its own. The Ministry of Internal Affairs won't do that, and we haven't given him that kind of authority. And of course all of these costs are financed in the third to fourth quarter, which destroys the principle of effective planning: six months is not a penny, and then the funds are paid out, which then quickly cancels out. Expenditure on investment in culture in 2003 will require 108.4 million. For comparison, the 2002 planned amount is 4.7 million dollars. And finally, the last. Many of the funds earmarked for other purposes and programs go to centralized cultural activities through manual administration, and neither the committee nor the government have any practical influence. This is not appropriate because manual management is anti - budget. Of course, in such a situation, the Committee on Cultural Affairs would have had to dissolve itself if it were able to support this proportion of budget funding for culture. We're going to vote for this job to be ineffective.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Committees, the National Deputies of Poland, Yehanurov, Solomonin, and the People’s Deputy of Hara were enrolled. What are your thoughts? There's an offer to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] Any suggestions to stop the discussion? Who insists on the performance? Ladies and gentlemen, let's give the word of Harry Vassil Georgiyovich, and we'll be cheating on both of us. Do we have a deal? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u121	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! It's a very sad procedure today, and something came up with the famous saying, "And Vaska listens to eat." It is not the first year that we have spoken angry words, and we condemn ourselves by discussing what is happening to our budget, but the train there and now. I would like to point out once again that, unfortunately, the Government of Ukraine does not understand to this day the importance of State social policy, on which the political, social and economic stability of the State depends. According to the most modest experts, the poverty rate in Ukraine is 30 per cent and extreme poverty is 15 per cent. So we can probably say that 15 million citizens are below the poverty line. It's not just a disgrace, it's the collapse of our state. However, not only has the Government not developed an integrated strategically determined social policy of the country, but it has not even made it serious so far. What about an integrated approach to the formulation and implementation of State social policy if there is no basic continuity of documents adopted at the highest level? In 2000, before the adoption of the 2001 State Budget, the President of Ukraine addressed the Supreme Council with the message: “Ukraine is progress in the 21st century. Economic and Social Development Strategy 2000-2004", which defined the country's development strategy for the fifth year. I will only remind you of some of the very important social challenges. First. Increase the real income of the population by one and a half times. Second. To create one million jobs. Third. Identify mechanisms agreed upon with the Supreme Council, settle no later than the end of 2000 and avoid future arrears on salaries, pensions and other social benefits. We know that so far, at least 2.5 billion have yet to be paid. Regrettably, representatives of the executive branch block those laws that the Supreme Council adopts to address those problems. Fourth. Ensure advance wage growth in 2000-2004. Fifth. To reduce the mortality of all age groups, especially those with disabilities, to increase life expectancy. We understand that this is achieved only by improving the quality of life of people. Sixth. Provide targeted support to low-income families with children. The specific objective of the Government is to ensure the implementation of the programme adopted in previous years to improve the situation of children, young people, women, families and so on. But the Cabinet of Ministers' message is not an order. That is why social tasks have not been included in the draft budget for 2001. That is why there is no strong social component in the 2001 budget, especially in terms of its social orientation, as we have heard in the adoption of the 2001 budget. Even the poverty-related social resources budgeted were not realized in any position. At the request of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, there are only 7 million dollars in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, a total of 6 million, 200,000, in fact, but not even 762,000, which were blocked in December in the accounts of the local offices of the State Treasury. The budget for the maintenance of institutions and the implementation of social protection activities for persons with disabilities and veterans has not been implemented, the protégé d'étération clinics, the maintenance of educational institutions and training courses, the maintenance of scientific institutions and social benefits. Even for families with children, the debt was 20 million bracelets on 1 April. The blocking of accounts of social institutions has done much harm in the absence of funding. In short, there has been a complete failure in the formation and especially in the implementation of the State budget in 2001. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour believes that this attitude of the Government towards budgeting and budgeting, underfunding social programmes and activities has led to a decline in real social protection and social security for the population. Such actions by the Cabinet of Ministers violate articles 1 and 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution, laws on State social standards and public social guarantees, on subsistence and many others. I support the proposal of the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council to recognize the Government's efforts to implement the 2001 State Budget as unsatisfactory and to join those people's deputies who require at least a precedent to punish those responsible for disrupting the implementation of the regular budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u122	Poljczek Mikola Efremovich, head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u123	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[election district 214, Kiev]] Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Distinguished People's Deputies! The Most Highly Present! Today, we have heard the findings of the Court of Auditors on the use of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine, and this raises not only sadness but also many questions. And these questions are primarily related to the fact that the population of Ukraine, as we know, has dropped by more than 3 million in ten years, and after we've heard health funding, I think we're just going to the chasm. To think about it, more than 25 percent of the unfunded health care is the most important. I understand you can eat in the morning and have a good dinner. But is it possible to treat a person today and expect that in the second half of the year the expenses will be met and the patient will be cured? I don't think so. The average wage of health workers for today is less than 66 percent of the minimum standard of living, and the average wage of a beginner doctor is about 150 dollars per month. How can a person survive? Not according to qualifications, not taking into account the office difference — a health care professional, a nurse, and a doctor have virtually the same salary. Today, in society, there is a lack of obedience, and trade unions are already taking the initiative to conduct an all - Ukrainian health - care strike. I think the government should consider that. The most patient today is because they think about people’s health. Not only does the government not think about human health, it does not even think about the health of those who think about human health. I would like to say that more than 25 percent of the budget allocated to health care has not been paid. How can we survive here? Oncological patient treatment costs have been funded by only 13.5 percent, while the financing of state-run maintenance expenditure has been exceeded by 18.7 percent. [[Think of the figure, dear fellows!]] There it is funded by only 13 percent, and there it is increased by 18.7 percent. The funding of the vast majority of health - care facilities comes from local budgets. The committee was already speaking and the local budgets were being filled. And to date, 40 to 50 percent of the patients are people who need immediate medical attention, and the local budgets are completely empty. So we fully sign that 40 to 50 percent of people can die peacefully if they're funded. I think the government and probably we'll think about how to make sure that emergency medical care is financed not only from local budgets but also from the State Budget for Targeted. The government has not determined how to implement the funds of the Ukrainian Academy of Medical Sciences, whereas the Cabinet of Ministers decree of May 25, 2001, 573 clearly states that the academy itself is the chief budget manager. Let's take another aspect of protecting a domestic producer. When making tenders, it is completely out of the question that our factories can produce almost anything that the industry needs today. I realize it's better to drive on the stamp than on the Zaporozka, but there are factories today that release medical equipment and can fully provide for the needs. [[There is a former director of such an enterprise, National Deputy Majo Vitaly Ivanovich]] At the same time, imported equipment is purchased, costing several times the value of domestic analogues. It seems to me that the inefficient use of millions and millions of budget resources has just led to what we have today. I think these numbers alone give an estimate of the government's work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u124	The statement by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster urges Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Please, Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u125	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to draw your attention to some information that concerns all of us. The Analytical Opinion of the Budget Committee, page 16, provides information on how certain budget management structures were financed. The administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is underfunded by 27 million dollars, or funding is at 86 percent of the plan. And the Ukrainian President's Office is funded by more than 56 million dollars, i.e. total funding is 129 percent. In view of the conditions we saw when the committees came to their work premises and looked at them, the equipment they had, we need to find out why they put us in such conditions. I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give due consideration to this very issue, so that both the deputies and the committees will have conditions that enable them to work properly. Now, as to the questions that belong to the knowledge of our committee. Dear colleagues, I want to pay attention to just two positions. The first position is to finance Chernobyl spending. At first glance, everything seems to be fine. According to the plan, the expenditure for these objectives amounted to 1 billion 844 million dollars, in fact, in 2001 funding was paid at a sum of 1 billion 794 million dollars, which is 97.1 percent. However, the debt owed to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster on January 1, 2002, amounted to 680 million dollars. At first glance, it's okay, but at the same time, there's this huge debt -- almost 1 billion dollars. The question is: Why? There is no indication in the report of the government or in the report of the Court of Auditors or in the statements of fellow MPs. And it's so impressive that somewhere in the government, perhaps primarily in the State Treasury, there are certain forces that are artificially inhibiting the coming of these funds and the timely repayment of these debts. It cannot be assumed that all tasks related to the Chernobyl Ministry have been performed when debt is constantly accumulated and unliquidated. The second issue concerns the costs incurred by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, led by the distinguished Mr. Kurikin. The congregation’s contribution to environmental pollution during 2001 amounted to 57 million dollars, leaving some 15 million dollars unutilized in 2000. In 2001, only 63 million dollars were used, or 8 million dollars remained unused. There's very little coming to this fund, they're pitiful in terms of what they do to protect the environment, and at the same time 8 million dollars have not been used. So it would be very interesting to know why the government and the Ministry directly didn't use these 8 million dollars to make sure that we don't ever have that kind of situation again. The money came -- they have to be used. In general, our committee believes, taking into account everything that has been said, that the draft decision prepared by the Budget Committee should be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u126	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, no one insists on speaking from the committee? Dear National Deputies! Who among the national deputies wants to speak? Please sign up. Please show the list on the board. National Deputy Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine. Four national deputies, Suprun, Hubsky, Assadchev and Artemenko, were enrolled.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u127	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Thank you. Ukrainian People's Movement, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! You know, I wouldn't take the floor, a lot of things said, especially since I worked four years with budget numbers. But unfortunately, from this rostrum today, no one has said the real reason for what happened and why we have such sad results. And the reason is political and purely political. The five billion-dollar fund sequester is the price for the removal of Victor Yushchenk's government in this room. And let's say this honestly and frankly. And the political forces that did it must take responsibility for it. A little bit of history. State budget for 2000 By the way, this budget was implemented. What was done? The government debt was reduced. You remember that Valérie Pavlovich left us a government debt of almost 60 percent of GDP. Yushchenko reduced it by almost 36 percent, which he is, by the way, and he is today. There was some order in the energy market: the money coming into the budget increased from 10 to 80 to 90 percent. Orders were set out in the treasury and financial resources were put to an end to the manual administration. In fact, the debt owed to budgetary institutions, which existed for more than a year and a half, was repaid. You know, Yushchenko was the first to use loans to farmers because they were just giving him money that had been washed away in the thrifty farms. He started through a system of lending long - term loans called long - term money. All of this was very good, but you realize that not all of it worked. And by the time the 2001 budget process began, this Yushchenko had already taken a very big swing at the skyscraper and the Skrtelek. And the oblenergo and the Crucifixion are things that have long been captured, where the hands of those who want them for nothing, so to speak, put them where they need to be. And of course, no one could stand it anymore, so Yashchenka was retired. The result is 5 billion sequestres. You know perfectly well that you have to be able to do it with a five billion-billion-dollar segregated budget. So I just want us all to understand that the 2001 budget is a sign budget, and it was deliberately done that way, exclusively on a political basis. But this is not the last payment for the removal of the Yushchenka government. The second fee will be in the 2002 budget, and you'll see what the vector is going to be like, and I'll go back to this platform and I'll tell you about it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u128	Are the national MPs Suprun, Hubsky, Artemenko insisting on the performance? Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, there will be parliamentary hearings tomorrow. You will have the opportunity to speak. Ludmila Pavlovno, are you insisting on the performance? If you insist, please. Dear National Deputies! What I'm trying to say is that television is happening right now. In view of the break of 14 hours, the National Television Company made calculations accordingly. Historical justice is now restored. Please, Ludmila Pavlovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u129	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I had to insist on my speech after my colleague Assadchev spoke, as he addressed an extremely important question. The 2001 budget really had one feature: the draft budget was proposed by the government of Yushchenka, and this budget was implemented by the government of Yushchenka for four months. From May came the government of Kinach and also implemented this law on the State Budget. But the Supreme Council played the greatest role in the implementation of the budget. Whether the government changes or not, the government’s income would not be earned. And I'll prove it in numbers. We lost 300 million dollars in taxes on businesses. On what account? Here, in the Supreme Council Hall, a law was passed that helped to build housing for military personnel. Thus, during 2001, we sent 800 million dollars to build housing for military personnel. That's why we didn't get the living money into the State Budget. A decision was made in this room to amend the Added Cost Tax Act. And by our legislative acts, we've written off the added value tax for a total of 7.2 billion dollars. [[And it would be very good to see who voted for them.]] So where did the money come from? I am sure that if we were to define the budget committee as a professional when adopting laws, this imbalance in budgets would not be allowed. We cut revenue and didn't cut spending, and we didn't find another compensator for the income part of the budget. Therefore, when the 2003 budget is adopted and the next work of the Supreme Council is adopted, it is essential that the Committees on Finance and Banking and on Budget Issues be identified in the main consideration of such issues. Under these conditions, the correctness of the thinking expressed in the President's statement today is reaffirmed: both the government and parliament are responsible for the implementation of the State budget and for the situation in the country. And so is the President. Without harmony and constructiveness, it will be very difficult to achieve the effective work of the Supreme Council and all authorities in the interests of the State and the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, the final word from the Cabinet of Ministers is Jusko Igor Olegovich. Please. We'll listen to the final word from the Committee on Budget Affairs and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u131	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! It seems to me that there has been an extremely important and constructive discussion of budgetary issues in the context of the 2001 State Budget implementation discussion. First of all, I would like to thank all the people's deputies who have taken a constructive approach to the implementation of the 2001 budget. It seems to me that many of the issues raised in the discussion are objectively existing, and they are extremely painful not only for public finances but also for society as a whole. I'll be honest with you, if I was asked as an expert to make a critical speech, I think I could add something else, because the problem is really very much. These problems have been accumulated for more than a year, it's not just in 2001, it's not a problem, it's a common problem, it's in our society, it's in the financial sphere, it's in government construction, it's in the budgetary sphere, it's a problem. Tomorrow in this room, we're going to discuss a draft budget resolution, and I would be very grateful, and I would very much like to see all of these problems that we've been dealing with in the discussion today find a constructive solution in budget policy planning for the following year. I thank you again and ask you to support a balanced approach to assessing the government, to support the very resolution proposed by the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u132	Thank you. From the Committee on Budgetary Questions, I now give the floor to Prašenko Petr Aleksiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u133	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, to express my sincere appreciation for this principle, the professional discussion of the draft decree on the government's 2001 budget implementation report. The vast majority of speakers expressed support for the position of the Budget Committee in assessing the government’s work through the implementation of the State Budget. In the absolute majority of the speeches, there was pain over the fact that the problems that Ukraine has today’s budget have never found a solution during 2001. At the same time, we have a very clear position that this is not a political confrontation, that the discussion is only taking place at the professional level in order to take advantage of the experience, that we analyze the mistakes made in the 2001 budget process, unfortunately, they appear in the 2002 budget, and that we correct these errors in the 2003 budget resolution and in the 2003 budget process. Of course, we're going to have to make very serious conclusions about both the special fund and the budgetary balance, and the proportionality of funding, and the VAT problem, which unfortunately we're going to be offered to solve at the expense of the budget, i.e. the social pay. Today, we will need to take a principle, a professional position, in order to guide the government and give appropriate instructions on how to deal with these issues. As the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, I am particularly pleased to see such, in fact, unanimity in the assessment of this issue, considering that this is the first question that Parliament is considering in the fourth call. From the vast majority of speakers, I heard support for the position of the Budget Committee. I thank you for this support, and I hope that on Thursday, during the faction vote, the committees will take the same principle of position, and we will be able to go out for a constructive dialogue, for a constructive budgetary process in 2003, where there will be no or minimalization of such shameful phenomena as tax administration failures, the accumulation of debt to economic operators, the financing of social costs over the residual principle and so forth. I'm sure today we have every opportunity to ensure that the 2003 State Budget is balanced, socially oriented and targeted. And I'm sure we'll demonstrate effective cooperation in this room. Thank you all for your support and support for the resolution proposed by the Budget Committee. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-18-m0.u134	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finalizing the discussion on the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2001 on Ukraine. Thirty - two national deputies took part in the discussion. Since tomorrow, June 19, the plenary day will be devoted to parliamentary hearings on budgetary policy for 2003, and these two issues are essentially interrelated, we will consider the draft budget resolution tomorrow, and the vote will take place on Thursday if there is no objection. And now, honourable national deputies, there's a break for committee work. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. Thanks for the job. Good-bye.
