ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like you, my dear fellows, to take your seats. Please take up jobs. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:04:23]] Registered -427 There are 427 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Drach Ivan Fedorovich, Ustenka Alexandr Andriyovich and Shevchuk Sergey Volodymirovich. Let's welcome them and wish them well. Dear colleagues, at work, at our meeting are the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules today, the Supreme Council of Decisions. You have a list of issues to decide from. Out of procedure, please, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A few remarks. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you remember that on September 26, when the matter was discussed here in Parliament, you stated that the documents voted there would not be signed by you until the relevant decision of the Regulatory Committee was taken. The decision of the Rules Committee states that voting was illegal outside the Rules. I think you're in violation of the Constitution, that's the challenge of the Constitution after all. And finally. Today the issue of the political situation in Ukraine is scheduled to be included in the order of the day. This subject concerns not only the opposition but also the majority, because the conspiracies by law enforcement officials and so forth have crossed the line. Therefore, the suggestion is: First, put into consideration the issue of inclusion and consideration of the substance of the matter, and then consider other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u3	Yes, dear colleagues, I see a lot of procedure, please sign up. Five minutes for procedural questions. Please point it on the board. Razwadowski. National Deputy Razwadowski, Democratic Initiative Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the floor to the national deputy Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u5	National MP Gavrish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u6	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to address all of us, taking into account the four - day vote. Dear colleagues, at this time, we have a serious portfolio of the bill debt owed to the Ukrainian electorate, and in general to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I propose not to have procedural differences today, nor to create the conditions for the Supreme Council not to be able to vote on the bill today. Alexander Alexander, I would like to point out that a large part of the bills voted in the past have been voted on in various situations, including when we were unable to claim that these bills were voted on, including by all the representatives of the part you represent. So I don't think this question today can hurt us to vote in the session room. So I suggest that everyone move on to their responsibilities and begin the voting process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u7	Please, Stephen Cloud, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u8	Cloud, block of Julia Timoshenko. Honorable national MPs, the Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, are quick to respond to what is being created in Ukraine today, for the way in which the use of the large, so - called lawyers, through the media and outright lies, is commonplace throughout Ukraine, using the fact that the other party does not have access to their electorate. And I am surprised that the doctor of law is not concerned about this situation of injustice and seductiveness, and he is calling for some fruitful work. A good job is to consider immediately the most important issues about the political situation in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u9	Stepan Ilkovich, finish the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u11	Please, young man, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u12	Please hand over Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u13	Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u14	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I are witnesses, whether you like it or not, but a large number of problems that have led members of different factions to seek the approval of a special commission of inquiry. We are witnessing with you the constant violations of the Constitution, of the law, and in general the situation of the crisis that has arisen today in both the political and economic life of Ukraine, the terrible processes that are taking place at the level of life of specific people, the destruction of regions, the basic industries. All of this is forcing us, on behalf of the faction, and I ask, once again, to address everyone, it forces us to urgently consider the draft decision on the political situation in Ukraine and make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u15	Please, Mikola Rudzkowski, the PPE faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u16	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, why does the opposition, the Socialist Party, first of all need to consider the political situation in Ukraine? Because the situation has worsened in recent weeks, the streets in Ukraine are being attacked not only by ordinary people, but by national MPs. The situation is critical. In order to change the situation, people started to live better, and we could adopt the laws that people needed, we needed to look at the political situation, define the emphasis, ask questions about the removal of President Kuchma from power and adopt the necessary laws. And the majority, which has declared and is inoperable, should agree to support the opposition and move on, otherwise we will never get out of this corner. And those laws you signed after September 26th, they're already in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u17	Please, Mikhail Kosov. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u18	Mikhailo Kosov. Please give the word to the first deputy head of our faction, Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u19	Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u20	Honorable National MPs. The "Our Ukraine" faction insists that we begin our work by voting under Project 2294: the inclusion in the agenda and the vote on the decision to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine when voting in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time spent on procedural matters is exhausted. Alexander Alexanderovich, I think I'm one of the most democratic heads of the Supreme Council, which allows everyone to express their point of view. And I think everyone admits that: both centrists and rights and lefts. It's about signing documents. I studied the decision of the Regulatory Committee very carefully. No draft regulation was proposed there. And that's the first one. The other one. I studied the decision of the Constitutional Court all in accordance with this reference, where it was said that the question could be about a legal and factual absence in the session room. The task of the Head of the Supreme Council is not to walk in the session hall and determine the actual presence of Ukrainian national deputies. That's the first, dear fellows. The second question. I mean. The second question. All the draft legislative acts that I had to sign in accordance with the Rules were put in place, including those responsible for their preparation, including those belonging to opposition factions and groups. Today, I have commissioned the Secretariat, in accordance with our Ukraine's proposal to adopt resolution 2294, to study the possibility of recommunication of the voting system so that everyone can exercise only their right to vote. I think we're going to take the problem off. Everything else is a reminder that we have to make a decision that we need to go to work. The question of the political situation. On page 8 of today’s agenda, there is a vote to include this issue in the agenda. And we're going to define the inclusion of this question. If you insist on voting now on inclusion, I will put the vote to the vote for your insistence. Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u22	Thank you. First of all, Mr. President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on October 3rd, the Committee considered the matter of violating the requirements of the Constitution and the Supreme Council's Rules in the morning and evening sessions of the Supreme Council on September 26th. That's the first time. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm going to read what the committee's decision is, what's its specific part. First, to draw the attention of the chairman of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Lithuania, to the repeated violation of article 84, part 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 4, of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, article 2.4. Chapters 2 to 4 of article 2.5. Chapter 5, articles 3.1.6, 3.1. Chapter 3.1 and articles 3.2. 1, 3.2.2 Chapter 3.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules for conducting plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 26, 2002. And the second. Perhaps even more decisive and important in this decision. To invite the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to sign the laws and other legal acts adopted on 26 September this year in violation of the Ukrainian Constitution procedure for their adoption and, I stress, to vote on them at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[list added]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! At the request of three national deputies: Alexander Moroz, Stephen Cloud, Peter Simonenko and Mikola Rudzkowski, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decision on the political situation in Ukraine at number 2220. [[Four, I'm sorry.]] Please make up your mind. [[10:18:11]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear National Deputies! At the request of the National Deputy Victor Pinzenik, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of decree 2294 on measures to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine in the conduct of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's vote. Please make up your mind. [[10:19:08]] For 210 For - 210. The factions. The decision is not taken. Please, from Alexander Frost's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u24	Deputies! Dear colleagues! I think these two votes have completely demonstrated who is blocking the work of the Supreme Council. We're not hindering the majority created by the President from doing his job. Vote, please, just bear in mind that today you are being bullied by opposition representatives, and tomorrow you will be bullied. [[And it's already been demonstrated.]] Until the law - law, by the way, on the status of a national MP, is respected in the State, there is nothing to say about: no other legislation, because all the laws adopted are enforced by executive authority, which clearly sees it through what eyes. So please vote all the laws, we're not stopping you from working. Vote all the laws you think are necessary, just keep in mind that they -- these laws -- will not be used for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies! A draft decree is being introduced for your consideration and adoption. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Dear colleagues! The Communist faction, as well as the Socialist faction, made a statement, "Please give me a 30-minute break." In accordance with the Rules, the chairman may give, and since we are now in the process of making decisions, I do not see such reasons. For your consideration and decision-making, a draft decision on the dismissal of Supreme Court Judge Boyka Vitali Fedorovich in connection with the application is being made. The rapporteur is the chairman of the committee, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Well, we've moved on to the question. A little later, dear fellows! Wait, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the insistence of the two factions, a 30 - minute recess is announced. We'll continue our work in 10 hours 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our work. Please take your seats! Peter Mikolaiovich, are you going to report on the results? You will? Simonenko, the Communist faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u27	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have once again analyzed the situation in the state and the factions of Communists, socialists, but we today understand the complexity of the situation in the state and the responsibility that rests with us, again to all the representatives, all the national deputies, understanding that it is necessary for the Supreme Council to work, studying a particular situation, analysing it, making specific decisions. Once again, we urge you to consider the political situation, for this is a very important issue. You understand how complicated it is for the entire organization of the work of the Supreme Council. We're against it. Therefore, we ask you to vote again to include, consider, and give appropriate instructions to make sure that specific measures are taken. And after that, we will all work together to determine the position on specific bills that are now in the agenda. Therefore, we insist once again on the need to vote on the question of inclusion in the agenda on the political situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u28	People's Deputy Stays.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The faction of "Our Ukraine" is really very surprised that the Ukrainian national MPs did not support the Constitution's rule of personal voting in the Hall, and so we ask that we return to that question again. Now there's a second problem. According to the Rules, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you announced on Tuesday in good dynamics that the faction "For Ukraine" had completed its work. I think this needs to be continued, and since there was information yesterday in the media that there are 4 or 5 applications for a way out of the majority, there are now, virtually, in the majority of the so - called majority, 225 people. I mean, as chairman, you need to announce that, in fact, most of you have ordered a long life that is not there today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u31	This will be according to the Rules, this is the requirement of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u32	Thank you. I, Your Honor Comrade Ostrash, would like to say, if there are documents that are presented to me and properly prepared, you have to be sure that I will announce them. We don't have a break today, we don't have time for statements, we're voting today. Dear colleagues, there were two, distinguished colleagues, there were two insistences. I'm asking for your attention! As a result of the breakup of the Communist factions and the Socialist Party, the faction of the Yulia Yulia Timoshenko has joined them in insisting that the question of the inclusion of a daily draft decision on the political situation in Ukraine be put to the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down! I ask you again, calm down! In connection with that. Peter Mikolaiovich, if we put the vote to the vote right now, is it not up to you, are you working or not? Will you call for a break again? One minute, don't bother! With the insistence of the two factions, I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decision on the political situation in Ukraine, which is project number 2220. I'll bet you a vote. Please make up your mind. Dear colleagues, I ask you to call off the vote. One minute, calm down. I can hear you. I'm asking for your attention! I'm betting on draft 2210 -- draft decision on the political situation to put this project in order. Huh? 2220 — about the political situation. About to include this project in the agenda. Please make up your mind. [[10:57:27]] For 201 For -201, no decision is made. It's democratic. The factions. We'll work on it then. Honorary colleagues, you have been given a draft decision on the dismissal of the judge, the head of the Supreme Court of the Ukraine, Boyka, in connection with the application. From the committee, please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u33	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Prime Minister, Head of the Supreme Court, Honorary Colleagues, you are asked about the release of Boyk Vitali Fedorovich from office of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the post of Supreme Court Judge in connection with the resignation. Vitaly Fedorovich Boyko has come a long way, he has a wonderful biography, he has worked as a national judge, he has worked as head of the Donetsk District Court, he has served as deputy minister of justice, he has served as the first justice minister of Ukraine's times of independence since 1994, and he has served as the head of the Supreme Court and the judge of the Supreme Court. It's a beautiful biography, a beautiful person, and it's only a pity that they get out of the judicial system. But during that time, he did a great deal. According to his initiative, he supported judicial and legal reform in Ukraine, and today it is essentially delayed. Yesterday, on the Legal Policy Committee, we considered the matter and decided to support the statement by Vitalia Fedorovich Boyko, since, you know, it is possible for a judge to follow his own desires on various grounds because of the age involved. And you can't do anything about it anymore. Therefore, the committee's proposal is to support the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u35	Vladimir Yavorowski, Jovkovsky district, Lvivščina, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter and respectable, very respectable to us, Vitaly Fedorovich! I want both on behalf of "Our Ukraine" and from many people who believe that the judicial branch of power in Ukraine in all the chaos that is now in political life, in state structures, Vitali Fedorovich, we are extremely grateful to you that perhaps for the first time you have shown that when the head of the court, the Supreme Court, is able to hold a position, to hold, to resist any pressure, let alone the President, no other structures, people are beginning to believe in justice. Thank you so much. You've done what no one's ever done to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is it suggested that we vote on the draft decree, then invite Vitalia Fedorovich Boyka to the floor? Is there no objection? I'm putting to the vote draft ruling number 2314 on the release of a judge to a general vote. Please vote. [[11:01:42]] For 212 To 212. The decision is not taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Your consideration is being made. Please, Vitaly Fedorovich Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u37	Honorable National MPs. Perhaps not for the first time in this rostrum is a person who insists on voting for release. And not only is this taking into account my interests, but, above all, the interests of the judicial system. Being on the couch, in terms of having no authority, because they ended up on the basis of the requirements of the Constitution, is extremely uncomfortable. And it will only be a pity for the judiciary, a pity for justice. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask once again, if possible under your Rules, to put this to a vote and grant my request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. I think Vitaly Fedorovich Boyko was convincing. Let's ask him again. We need to make a decision not today, so tomorrow. Let's not torture a man. We thank and do as we do in a civilized society. I'm betting on the whole draft Supreme Council ruling on the release of the judge at number 2314. Please vote. [[11:04:04:04]] For 224 For 224. The decision is not taken. The factions. Let's move on to the next question. You are being reviewed by the draft Decision on the appointment of the Speaker as Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u39	Dear head, distinguished national MPs. As you well know, the constitutional composition of the judges of the Constitutional Court consists of 18 persons. A third of them are elected by the Supreme Council, appointed to office. Today, one seat of the Constitutional Court judge is vacant. And the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the requirements of Article 148 of the Constitution and Article 7 of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Act, filed an application for the election of the Constitutional Court judge, Mr. Vosnik Ivan Pantelinovich. By the way, I want to point out that one quarter of the national MPs also use the same right. The Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council at its meeting considered the application and concluded that Mr. Volosničenko Ivan Pantelevinovich could be elected judge of the Constitutional Court. I would like to remind you of the requirements that apply to the candidate for this appointment. First. This person should reach the age of not less than 40 years. The other one. She has to have a higher law. There is no less than 10 years of speciality. And that's the last requirement. That is what a person should live in, that is, a price of residence for at least the last 20 years. All these requirements, including the requirement to speak English, are met. In this regard, the Supreme Council Committee has reached a conclusion on the possibility of recommending to the Supreme Council the choice of Vosničenko Ivan Pantelijovich as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now we'll invite, if there's no objection, a candidate. Yeah? Thank you, Mikolo Vasilovich. To the rostrum for answers, if they are members of the national parliament, a candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Ivan Pantelijovich Volosnichenko, is invited. Please, Ivan Pantelijovich. Please sign up for questions. Ten minutes to ask. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Kachur, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u42	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u43	Thank you. Roman Zvaric, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Honorable candidate for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. You have witnessed today that the Supreme Council was considering a decision requiring deputies to comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling on the interpretation of article 74 of the Constitution, which makes it very clear that each national MP should personally take part in the vote. Thus, it is forbidden for the Ukrainian National Deputy to decide on the questions raised in the sessional room for another national MP. So that's a question for you. You have material that proves that in the session room, national deputies used not only their card but also another card. What will be your reaction? What will be your decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u44	Well, first of all, I understand that there's a lot of questions in the Supreme Council, and that's because it doesn't vote with its own card. Of course, if I have to work on this issue before the Constitutional Court and if it is shown that the MPs did not vote personally, then it will normally be an appropriate decision, which is in accordance with article 84, part 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u45	People's MP Melniczuk, PPE faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u46	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u47	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u48	Dear John Pantelewovich, a few such questions. Imagine that you are already a member or a judge of the Constitutional Court, or even a head of the Constitutional Court. Over the past two years, the Constitutional Court has been considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution at the suggestion of an appropriate number of deputies. And according to articles of the Constitution 157, 158, the answer is literally to two child questions. Is that not a threat to the State or a violation of human rights, etc.? And it turns out that we've also recommended decent people and lawyers with education and with degrees of science, and we can't be born with a willow to that completely banal simple question. The same applies, for example, for the Supreme Council has passed a law amending the Constitution, where it has given the relevant status to the Court of Auditors, as it does in a normal state. Again, there were dignitaries who had appealed to the Constitutional Court to answer whether the Supreme Council could then consider this law to be in force? And again, there's a story that we don't know how long it's been going to be. What would you imagine to the owls as the head of the Constitutional Court, what would you do in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand this question, and I would like to say that, of course, right now directly on behalf of the head of the Constitutional Court, I think it would be simply incorrect on my part. If I'm going to be in office, let's say the Constitutional Court judge is depending on you, of course I'm going to get deeper into all these problems and I promise you to work honestly and in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. I'm just not ready to comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court right now, because I need to study every decision of the Constitutional Court. And I'm not competent to do that right now. And if I'm going to work as a judge, I'm going to go deep and I'm going to, I promise you, work honestly and only under the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u50	Thank you. Alexander the Emerald, the People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u51	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear John Pantelijovich, I have a question concerning your scientific work. And, if you can do it very briefly right now, I understand that the question is more theoretical, your attitude towards reforming the Constitution and modernizing the Constitution, if you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u52	I can only answer this question right now as a scientist, as a teacher, and so on. Because I'm going to say that these are comments that have no formality. I want to say that, in my opinion, the Constitution of Ukraine is usually flawed and, of course, there will be changes and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine, but at present, taking into account the political situation and so forth, I think that the Constitution of Ukraine is still the Basic Law, which cannot change annually. But for further changes to the Constitution, that's my belief.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u53	National Deputy Razwadowski, Democratic Initiative Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u54	Dear Ivan Pantelemonovich! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Please tell me if you have been asked to go through factions, to get acquainted with groups, and to express your opinion. That's the first question for you. And the second question. You know, a few days ago, our President's case is off. Please say, is it constitutional or unconstitutional? I'm asking you as an expert in legal matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u55	Yes, of course. Thank you for asking. With regard to familiarity with the factions, the election procedure of the Constitutional Court judge does not provide for this, but I would not deny, of course, meeting. As for a criminal case, well, I, of course, like every Ukrainian citizen, oversee the activities of the authorities, including the judiciary. But, well, every lawyer understands the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal that it's in his jurisdiction to review cases and so forth, in fact, there, and so forth. As for the violation of a criminal case against such a high-ranking official of the State, there are appropriate procedures laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine, and, of course, in the Ukrainian Law on the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u56	The Orobec People's Deputy, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u57	Dear John Pantelejovich, I'd like to ask you a question that will determine your position. You've obviously been following up on the Constitutional Court's decision as an expert. What decisions do you personally disagree with and do not vote as the majority voted? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u58	You know, the Constitutional Court has decided a lot of questions. Well, I would say that, in my opinion, most of them are decided correctly. As for your question, do I not agree with any court decisions? To answer that question objectively, we need to get to know all the circumstances that characterized the matter. So just to say, yeah, I don't agree with that. As a lawyer, I respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and if they are accepted, they need to be implemented. Another matter is how the judges of the Constitutional Court conduct themselves in this court. I think they should act in accordance with the Constitution and the laws and not fail. My vision. And just now to say that this decision is wrong, that it's wrong -- you have to have the right materials to do it, you have to study them perfectly, and then you have to talk. And it's just so baseless to say that some decision of the Constitutional Court is unconstitutional, you know, I can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u59	Thank you. National MP Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u60	Dear pretender, Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party. I would like to hear from you how you appreciate in general the work of our Constitutional Court, which, according to our people, the common people, has turned into a fifth wheel into a wagon because it can gather, say, a month to discuss matters. Is it necessary to raise prices for utilities if people do not receive wages for six months? Grandma says to me: Lord righteous, but it is clear to the fool that if there is no wage, who can increase the price? People sit, make a smart look, and they debate for a long time. What am I saying? There must be an independent, uninvolved. And in general, please tell me, when this court becomes independent first of all from the President, of his will, of course, of our will, of ours, of ours, of ours, of ours, of ours, of ours, of ours, of ours, of ours, of ours, of course, of ours, of course, of ours, of course, of ours, of course, of course, of course, of ours, of course, of course, of ours, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of How do you see the mechanisms of this court?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u61	Well, my conviction is so profound that all decisions taken by the Constitutional Court should be justified, but it should be determined in the shortest possible time that people do not wait long for these decisions, and that the Constitutional Court should make these decisions in accordance with current legislation and especially the Constitution of Ukraine. As for my attitude towards the Constitutional Court and so forth, I refer to it, indeed, as to the authority that evaluates the laws of Ukraine, the acts of the President of Ukraine and especially the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on their legality, and I believe that the Constitutional Court should decide all of this in the interests of the law and ours, of course, with you people, because it is up to the other structures of power that these laws define the most complete rights and freedoms of man and citizen. And I think that the Constitutional Court should, on this side, approach these decisions. I think, of course, that our people have a very difficult situation and we need to be careful about it, but all of this needs to be analyzed equally in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Second, the Constitutional Court simply cannot. It's within the framework of the law, within the framework of the Constitution. Well, then, I'm not a judge yet, I don't know if I'll still be a judge of the Constitutional Court. But if I'm like that, I'm going to stick to these ones, and I'm going to come out of these positions to solve these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u62	Thank you, Ivan Pantelievitch, thank you. Time has been decided on your question. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the Supreme Council appoints judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by secret ballot. Will you not have it? Mishur People's Deputy? Please, on this point, the National MP of Mishur, the Communist faction. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u63	Valerius Mishur. The Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention and my fellow MPs to the fact that the interim calculus commission, which I have been asked to lead in the first session, which has faithfully performed its functions, has exhausted its functions by electing the leadership of the Supreme Council in your person, committee leaders and so forth. So during that time, there was an interfractional redistribution. You have to either confirm, so to speak, the authority of this commission, the more so that some of the people I have here on my list are already in other factions, maybe someone, let's say, will express doubts about this; or create a new counting commission. We're ready in this warehouse, I'm willing to work myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u64	Honorable National MPs. You'll probably have no objection. And we are all aware that the commission is working honestly and objectively with the head of its national deputy as our colleague. Is there any objection to having a temporary reckoning commission led by Mishur to vote? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask the reckoning commission to agree on all questions related to the preparation for the vote, and at 14 o'clock, before we take a break, we will hold a secret ballot. [[I'm asking you, your honor, attention.]] Is there no objection? Then for the announcement. Please. The announcement will now be made by the chairman of the commission on the composition of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, there were such national deputies on the provisional reckoning committee. I'd ask them if they'd agree to meet me in five minutes where they always are. In 15 minutes. To me?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u66	Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u67	Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich, Fomenko Katerina Alexandrovna, Asadchev Valerij Mihajlovich, Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, Grzezhev Anatoly Dmitrovitch, Ivanov Sergey Anatoliyovich, Kalimichenko Igor Viktorovich, Karmazin Yuri Anatolievich, Kostenjuk Bogdan Ivanovich, Majko Vitali Ivanovich, Manchulenko Georgiy Manoliyovich, Mirimsky Lev Yuliyovich, Nadraga Vasil Ivanovic, Ryabikin Pavel Borisovich, Rybik Vladimir Leonidovich, Sitnik Kostin Merkuriyovich, Sobolev Sergey Vladimirovich, Czerovil Taras Vyachevovich, Čičanynov Sergei Vladimirovich, Shevchuk Serg Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Assadchev, our Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Valery Dmitrovitch, you know that we really worked well, I think there were no complaints on the Counting Commission. And how harshly we were with the procedure. That's probably why there were no complaints. I think that now, after all, the confirmation of the validity of our commission should take place by vote, so that there will be no complaints that the commission was not responsible. We're still choosing the judge of the Constitutional Court, and that's what I think is responsible. And I think we should vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u70	I fully agree with you, and I insist that the chairman put the question to the vote to confirm our authority. Otherwise I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, don't leave the session room. We need to vote now. I'm asking you to go back to everyone's place. Dear colleagues, we need to vote to confirm the commission's mandate for today's vote. For the whole time? Let's vote to confirm the commission's mandate. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Well, then, take your seats so you can vote. Please. Katerina Timofievna, please vote, please. I'll bet you a vote. Well, please, Tomenko with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, Mr. Valery Dmitrovitch, I want us not to create a precedent when we are now voting in a situation where one of the members of the Counting Commission has the automatic and the status of the National Deputy of the Supreme Council of Crimea. That's why Mr. Lev Mirymsky's problem is in general. and now he will act as if in two positions: and the national deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, acting as a member of the Counting Commission, and the national deputy of the Supreme Council of Crimea. I think we need to settle this question, either replace it, or remove it. And in general, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you need to be active and court-martialed, we have plenty of them. We're creating a coalition of what the co-conspirators here are in the hall, and they're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u73	Thank you. You know, dear colleagues, what we suffer from is that conditions are not fully established, and we cross them. The People's Deputy of Mirimsky has not yet been granted the status of the People's Deputy of Crimea. He is Ukraine’s national deputy. I'd like to be politically correct in this relationship. I am putting to the vote the question of confirming the mandate of the Temporary Committee of Counts, headed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mishur. Please vote. [[11:27:01]] For 228 Thank you for the 228th decision. For reasons, please, Alexander Frost. The factions. Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Alexander Frost, faction of socialists. Our faction did not vote, not because it did not want to confirm the commission’s authority, but because such a vote could not be held. If there is a question for a member of parliament, it should be considered separately. If a question arises throughout the Counting Commission, then it is necessary to ask questions about the mistrust of the commission and its transformation, other forms. And if we continue to vote on the confirmation of trust, it is the same as we are now to vote on the trust of the Chief of the Supreme Council. This is absolutely not a logical step, nor are they predetermined by the Rules. I'd like you to consider this further.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u75	Thank you. Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'd like you not to vote on me, it'll be better. And I'm going to ask the regulatory committee to clarify and determine the status of this committee so that it may be permanent. There may be some kind of determination needed to confirm its status. Let's study this question. Okay? I'd like to ask the Counting Commission to do the necessary preparatory work, and I'd like to ask you, before leaving at 2:00 a.m. for a recess, to decide on your candidacy. Better yet, how do we help fill this vacancy? Dear National Deputies! Your consideration and decision-making is subject to a draft decree to suspend the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Rizak for the term of office. Reporter to the Committee on Rules Valentin Grigorovich Matviev
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! At the meeting of the Committee on October 9, a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Rizak dated September 28, concerning the term of office of the Zacarpathian District Authority in connection with his appointment as head of the President of Ukraine since September 27, this year was considered. The committee decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Rizak and to submit a draft decree to the Supreme Council on the early termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Rizak. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! Is there no objection? I'm putting the whole draft regulation to a vote. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote the entire draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2280 on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Rizak. I'd like you to identify yourself as an honorary national MP. [[11:30:35]] For-183 "For" is 183, the decision is not made. The factions. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'm going to put this question to the vote after a while. We need to resolve it. I would like to take it out of my mind that the MP has voluntarily given up his mandate because he cannot reconcile himself with the office of executive authorities. I ask you to mobilize and we will vote on this issue. You are considering a draft decree to perpetuate the memory of the former Head of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR, Ivashka, and to establish the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We must first vote on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. I ask you to vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of this issue. Please vote. [[11:31:39]] For 304 For -304, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this draft decision on the ground. Please vote. [[11:32:05]] For 307 Decision taken. What will be the suggestions? I'm betting on a draft ruling as a whole. Please vote. [[11:32:29]] For 310 For -310, the decision is made. The factions. Dear colleagues, we need to vote on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft law amending the Ukrainian law "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2002". I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I would like to vote on the inclusion of a draft order for consideration. To consider it now. Please vote. Please be supportive. The Special Committee supports this. [[11:33:19]] For 225 The factions. Dear colleagues, well, it's a prerequisite to consider the issue, and we'll be determined. I'm asking you, let's work, unlock the process in the end. The committee is asking to consider this question. This is a prerequisite for our next consideration. I'm putting the vote again, I'm asking you to listen carefully, and I'm asking everyone to vote. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2002. Please vote. Dear colleagues! Turn the system on. Please vote. [[11:34:18]] For 225 The factions. Peter Alexiovich, with a motive, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to focus and get serious about your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, well, indeed, the committee has made a decision. From a professional point of view, if the budget is not implemented, permission should be given to increase borrowing in the internal market. I ask then, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's move the vote to the second half of the day and to allow the factions to be politically defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, come on, please, I need to understand. We say that we need to do social articles, and we need the money to do so. I'm asking you, let's vote again, and then we'll figure it out. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm asking you to vote. I'm asking you to support me. [[11:35:42]] For 225 The factions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and so openly not to express the joy of making our citizens worse. I'd like to ask a committee of profile to work and talk to factions, committees, so that we can look at this issue later. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I'm betting on the vote on inclusion in the agenda, please pay attention, honourable colleagues, to the draft decision on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the authenticity of the illegal arms trade with the Republic of Iraq. Taking into account the political background of this issue, I ask you to support the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:36:56]] For 227 For -227, the decision is made. The factions. From the Committee of Rapporteurs, Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Georgi Korniyovich, is there a need to report him? None. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the adoption as the basis for the draft of this ruling. Please vote. With motive? Please, Alexander Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, apparently a hall set up to vote, is the right thing to do in favour of such a decree. But it should be borne in mind that as long as the President signs the law on interim commissions, the decision of this commission, or the Supreme Council itself, will not be legitimate, because selective work is being done to verify those or other violations of the law to which they are allowed and where they are not allowed to contact or receive documents. So once again, if you're voting on this issue, vote immediately, and the project that it envisages inviting the President to immediately sign the law on interim commission investigators, so that the decision of the Supreme Council is legitimate. This law was passed two years ago by the Supreme Council. The president did not sign it without reason, he missed the deadlines, and the law was discussed several times in the Supreme Council. And as long as it's not signed, the work of any commission will have no effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Alexander Aleksandrovich, we agreed, and you know this perfectly, on the Conciliation Council, and asked the relevant committees by Monday to prepare all the questions related to the law on the Follow-up Commissions in order to determine how we can move forward in order to acquire this law, this law, the validity. Whether it's to ask the President or to confirm this law, so that we have a complete picture of it. For reasons, please, Gregory Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u82	Thank you. Gregory Omelchenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, MP of the Republican Party of Sobor. Dear colleagues, we have a special commission created by the Supreme Council to investigate the facts of the illicit arms trade. And this is part of the commission's investigation. You are voting today on the day-to-day sale of arms to Iraq. Vladimir Mihajlovich, from next week, I think I will inform you that we will still have about half a dozen such commissions to establish in other countries of the world where arms were sold illegally at the hands of the President of Ukraine, including with regard to those countries where the United Nations was banned. There's a commission led by Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovitch called "investigative of the facts of the illicit arms trade," let her investigate this episode. And what's more, our commission passed on to this committee all the materials that are related to the earrings that are about selling and talking in the President's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u83	Please make an offer. Time is running out. Please unlock the microphone. Please, Karmazin after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u84	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies, Alexander Alexanderus Moroz immediately spoke of the illegal commission of inquiry. They are perfectly legitimate because they are acting in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. But the other question is, are they ineffective? And there's Alexander Alexander the Right. With regard to the offer by Gregory Omelyanovich Omelchenka. This is about delimiting powers. If you create commissions, you will have to create commissions in all countries, including the Sudan, Iran, in many other countries. Therefore, in order not to do so, it may be necessary to submit an interim report to Sinchenka, and he will inform, and then the question of the Iraqi commission will be removed. And in the end, so that I don't ask for any more words, I would like to propose and ask you all of you, honourable national MPs. You have been given a 2297 project on the Office of the President of Ukraine, advisory counsellors and other auxiliary bodies and services to ensure the exercise of the powers of the President of Ukraine. I ask you to put it into the agenda by voting for it. I think that's what's going to bring the whole room together: both left and right. And it's going to make one government sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u85	Thank you. National MP Zvaric. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for giving me your word. But I'd probably like to make a procedural statement. I am drawing your attention as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who is taking part in all the voting today by the Ukrainian National Deputy Rizak. In view of what the Constitution does not provide, I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to contact the President of Ukraine for the release of Rizak from the post of head of the Zacarpathian District Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if we do not vote today, we will not make such a decision, and I will certainly address the President with an appropriate proposal today. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the basis of a draft decision establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the authenticity of the illegal arms trade with the Republic of Iraq. Please vote. [[11:43:28]] For 226 Decision taken. What will be the additions, suggestions? Please, Alexander Alexandrovich. By factions, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u88	I'm making a motion for a decision that has already been adopted, which has just been voted on, an addition to a point that has been made there in another project to ask the President to sign the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the offer is clear. Add a point to ask the President to sign the Law on Investigative Commissions immediately. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal by Alexander Alexandrovitch Moroz. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:44:27]] For-76 Z-76. The decision is not taken. What are some other suggestions? I'm betting on the vote on the bill "On the establishment of a temporary investigation committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the authenticity of the illegal arms trade with the Republic of Iraq" in general for the vote. Please vote. [[11:45:02]] For 221 For 221. Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. Members of the Temporary Counting Commission, the Permanent Counting Commission, please arrive at the meeting of the committee head of our colleague, Mishura, at the designated location. Please. Well, during the break. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by a draft decree granting leave to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine 24,000 tons of aviation fuel from an uninterrupted state reserve. You know, we already made part of the decision when we voted in favour of 6,000 tons. There's an offer from the Cabinet of Ministers, and we need to support this project. There's no objection. I'm betting on voting on the adoption of this project as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Honorable colleagues. [[11:46:31]] For 224 The factions. Here I'm told from the Communist faction that they don't know if this is a good question. One minute, dear fellows. I have to make myself clear. This question is in order of the day, we must accept it. Dear colleagues, you understand what this has to do with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this is simply a mistake in the schedule of meetings for today, it is written that this issue needs to be included in the agenda. It is in order of the day and has been supported by two committees: the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Committee on Defence and National Security. So I'd like to take this question as it's already coming true, we just have to formalize it. Dear colleagues. I'm talking to all of you. With Alexander Frost's motives, please. I'll put it to the vote again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! Before we address this issue, we need help with inventory of fuel reserves in the reserve. Because we're so in 1992, if I'm not mistaken, the fates of the permits once, and then it turns out that 4/5 of this reserve has been looted and no one knows where it's been. So until we have proper or accurate help, we simply cannot allow any further manipulation of the Reserve.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Taking into account Alexander Alexander Moroz's proposal, I now propose to add one paragraph 4 to which the Cabinet of Ministers will be obliged to submit within five days, let's say, let's define the term, the information about the unbreakable reserve, its expenditure. I mean, let's have a full picture. I propose that, honourable colleagues, with this proposal in mind, vote. I'll bet you a vote. Klukkowski from the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u92	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the transcript shows what you just said. And you announced at a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that a criminal crime was being committed. The use of stocks from the State Unfulfilled Reserve is being decided, although no one has accepted it. So I have a question, and I ask him to consider it a question. Who will be called to account for the use of stocks without a legitimate decision? It's especially big-scale theft.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u93	Thank you, Comrade Klukkowski. I want to explain to you that we have already made one decision that we have allowed. We agreed through both the committees and the Cabinet of Ministers, which will total 30,000 tons. Six thousand tons were allocated. They're already being used. But it's the minimum and the amount needed to maintain at the minimum level the resilience of the Air Force. That's what I meant. On each of these issues is the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and the decision of the Supreme Council. Then it enters into force. Please, National Deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u94	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to remind all the MPs that our government for the security of the military forces in the budget has not made a penny. Moreover, even the kerosene that was released, we are now letting go. In fact, the issue of financing the replenishment of the resupply stock has not been resolved because these reserves need to be resupplied. There's no money left either. So this is a complex question, it's, you know, it's not easy for a candace to just decide, there's a government to report, and it's in the budget to put these issues together and anticipate, because we've already started replacing the series with our actions. Do we have or do we not have a government? Let us consider this question. I don't think this is a question that we can vote on in this order at all. Even if it is decided, it is only a matter of deciding in the context of the adoption of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, once again, I want to explain here that it is not just that the heads of the committee, which would better perhaps explain that the decision on leave can only be made from a non-contributory reserve, only by the Supreme Council and only by the Supreme Council. That is why the Cabinet of Ministers made such an offer to the Supreme Council. This does not mean that the Cabinet of Ministers has transferred responsibility to the Supreme Council. I agree with you, Comrade Assadchev, that we would probably need to offer information that is exhaustive, that we should report on how a non-repeatable reserve is being used and what is being done and will be done to keep it at that level, on the requirements and standards that it should be. We can write that in the draft decree. With that in mind. Yes. National MP Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u96	Dear colleagues. Quickly, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. So I think we're going to be consistent, if we're being briefed by those who have already taken these 6,000 fuels, as he used them, he'll give us complete information on that. Then we will make decisions or continue to give and in what amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u97	Thank you. National MP Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u98	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to explain to you the following. In the past, on my request, such a verification of the availability of materials was conducted in the Gosreserva. At that time, it was discovered that all those sitting in this room, including the Government, were still missing 5 billion goods of material value in Goszerva. So even your saying that 6,000 tons are already being allowed to do housework with members of the committee, like Kabmin, is already saying that I am fully in favour of my colleague Klukkowski, that this is already criminal. It's not that we don't object to the military-air forces fuel, but let's do it with proper legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I've been trying to explain to my colleague Klukkowski, let me explain to you that we've already adopted and voted for 6,000 tons, that's all legal. And the whole point was to allocate 30,000. A second draft regulation is being introduced today. I suggest you, Your Honor, vote on the proposal of Alexander Alexander Alexander Frost, please, and we will finish. Well, please, turn on the microphone. Well, now, one minute. Alexander Kuzmuk. Please turn on the microphone. Alexander Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, indeed, the responsibility is great if we transfer fuel from the Reserve. But I would like to explain why this is about 24,000 tons. All in all, it takes 30,000 to restore the skill of air force pilots. - it's a reckoning. Plus. The fall-winter period of exploitation is about to begin. All planes must be loaded. If that doesn't happen, we'll lose them completely and forever. 6000. The tons are transferred to the military, and they're already in use. If we're going to argue and think about how much we need and how, it's going to be wasted, because it's going to take extra time to reinvent aviation skills.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u102	Today, that is the only solution we can make. I invite you to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u103	Please, committee dust.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered a proposal to increase the amount of fuel for the Air Force. And the committee decided to support this bill. But given what really needs to be done inventory, we think it's necessary to add an inventory point and then release the fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u105	The People's Deputies of Verethennikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I was in congregations, military congregations a month ago, and there the military was handling their affairs -- shooting, everything they needed to do. But tanks, tanks, there's no fuel so they can learn somewhere. There was no fuel on the plane, too. How can our armed forces be resilient without fuel? Please, I've seen with my own eyes that this must be done and given to our military fuel. This is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u107	I'm asking you to calm down. We're not in the process of discussion. We only follow procedure for reasons or reasons. Dear colleagues, please! Turn on the microphone, name it. Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u108	Alexy Ivchenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear friends, there is no need to mislead national deputies from the high court. Of course, aviation needs to be helped, but not by illegal means. The point is that the airlinerosin should be separated from any of the woodsheds. It's a setup. Once again, they're tilting Skrnaft, and they're pushing the trash notes of NaKU, Naftogaz Ukraine, Ukrnafti. There's no debt in front of anyone in front of the reserve, or before Naftegaza Ukraine, and vice versa. And I'm going to continue to use the Ukrainkrnafti trash notes, and I want to solve this. It's illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u109	Please, Alexander Frost, and we're done. Dear colleagues, we are about to vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u110	Alexander Frost, faction of socialists. I repeat my proposal: this is a matter that can be considered, given the preservation, of the necessary conservation of the Reserve only after we have a document on fuel inventory there. But what are we discussing right now? That's less than 10 million dollars in total. Let's put this amount in the budget, and let the government fund the acquisition of fuel for aviation, and let's take this down. And I support my colleague Yvchenka, this is indeed an attempt today to make a case so that we can continue to rob the Derzrezers. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues. A wasteland, and we'll finish. We're turning it into a discussion. Let's vote, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u112	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm just sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in front of you. I've been holding my hand for half an hour to say a few words. Alexander Moroz has already spoken 10 times as false as you are to the faction of the People's Democratic Party and many others. That's the first question. The second question. For the first time, when the government was filing, we also discussed these issues at a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Construction, Communications. And the calculations were all about. Stocks of the state reserve for aviation fuel. And it's a shame if we don't support this decision. So I suggest we stop the discussion, put this question to a vote. If they don't vote, move on in the daytime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u113	Is everyone clear? I'll put it to a vote. One minute, Alexander Alexander. That's enough, it's not a discussion. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a bill of leave for the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. 24,000 tons of aviation fuel from the state reserve. Please vote. [[12:01:44]] For 224 For -224, no decision taken. Let's go back, let's get the committees. The factions. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess. We'll continue our work at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We will continue our work. We're continuing our work with the procedure. Will you please get out of here?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. In a state of hard thinking, I went up to this rostrum. The work of the Supreme Council is practically disorganized, paralyzed, and we waste our time. We are called upon to resolve extremely important issues. There's the Prime Minister here, the government. And I'll tell you, it's just unbearable to be in this room. Why did I come to this rostrum? To offer a way out of the situation. Offer to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. But to do so, we need to point out the reason for the situation. She's famous. The political crisis in parliament has given rise to and deepens the unwillingness of the authorities to go to a dialogue with opposition. This is evidence of a low political culture of power. By the way, in the Oksana program Marchenko, 40 percent of the audience supported the opposition. And that's something you need to pay attention to. What Is Needed? Our audiences, our voters, and, of course, we need to pay attention to Oksana Marchenko. I propose to unlock the work of the Supreme Council, which requires a vote in favour of including the day-to-day issue of the political situation in Ukraine. First. There are reasons for that. If someone tells me there's no reason for that, let the first one throw me a rock. I'm done. The economic situation is characterized by the criminal oligarchy in Ukraine, the social situation is characterized by the mass poverty of the population and the political situation is characterized by the Belarusianization of Ukraine. And second. Why are you so stubborn, obstinate, and obnoxious about putting this issue in order of the day? What are you afraid of? Nothing new will say, it's all said, the same words will be spoken. Let's talk about the question. We need to lift the lid, release the steam from the boiler, and continue our productive work. I call on you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to call on the Presidential factions and call on the puppeteer who runs this puppet theater. Let us vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I suggest we put this to a vote, vote, and then we get out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There will be questions that require voting in the agenda. I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'm going to re-apply to your request for inclusion in the agenda. Do we have a deal? And what's more, I think there's going to be people MPs who aren't here right now, especially factions that belong to the opposition. The draft State Budget Act 2003 is being submitted to your consideration. The responsible head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Prashenko, Petr Aleksiyovich, please. Dear colleagues! I would like us to understand that we are working in voting mode, not in discussion mode, so let's do this. Thank you. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! First of all, I thank you for the constructive discussion of the conclusions and proposals of the budgetary committee that took place yesterday, where sufficient criticism was expressed in the draft State Budget 2003 Act, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the vast majority of them refer to the draft law. You are now looking at the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budgets that provide for themselves and in the conclusions are this rule, which is only subject to amendments to legislation that ensure an increase in income. Including the laws that are proposed for consideration today regarding the law on the profit of enterprises, changes to the law on the excise congregation and others. The indicators you are offered, including the income section, are absolutely real. They were voted by consensus on the budget committee and, believe me, as a professional, I am responsible there for every number. Most of them were. The discussion on the legality of the State budget coming from privatization. Yesterday, some of the laws were quoted here. I want to tell you that article 29 of the Budget Code directly requires that the cost of selling assets belonging to the State, i.e. the proceeds of privatization -- this direct rule -- should be included in the revenue of the State Budget. Moreover, the State Debt Act also directly requires that the privatisation proceeds be included in the State Budget. [[Article 8]] Based on this logic, in meeting the requirements of the Budget Code, the Budget Committee, by consensus -- I insist -- made a similar decision. Of course, this budget, primarily part of it, needs intensive work, a joint parliament, and a government. But without having to put the strained tasks of making sure that the commitments we made in the elections would be absolutely impossible because a substantial improvement in the socioeconomic situation, including an increase in the wages of education, health care, and the solution to the coal problem, cannot be done without strained fund-raising tasks. That's why I would like to urge you to vote in the first reading today on the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee. I agree with the government's proposal to amend tax legislation to raise funds to the income part of the budget and unlock the budget process. The non-admission of the budget will lead us donor areas to have a budget code, because this is the first year that we live under the new budget code, to have real opportunities to accept our budgets and not to add any copies to the state budget, thus putting three quarters of the countries under a major question of the financing of wages, social sectors. And one day someone claims that, for example, against the conclusions, I urge you very much to read them and see them. For example, if we're going to take on the chief budget administrators, the largest amount of money we would have allocated was coal support, and the second place is the support of the agricultural sector. This is politics, these are priorities that are determined by the budget committee, which consists of representatives of all without excluding factions. And I insist once again that this vote has taken place by consensus. So I would also like to say that those who propose to return the budget to read again are going nowhere, because the budget committee has actually determined, carefully analyzed and considered the proposals of most factions in a 24-hour regime. We're set up for constructive work, trying to avoid any politicization of the process. And today I would like to emphasize that, including the faction "Our Ukraine" in order not to block the budgetary process, in order to demonstrate its constructive attitude towards the position of the Supreme Council, it has decided on the position of the budgetary committee to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u118	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Thank you. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, has the floor. Then you will have the opportunity, Peter Alekseiovich, to be the prime minister, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Friends! Our shared task and our shared responsibility to the state and society is to consider and adopt a real, balanced government budget for 2003 as a basis for enhancing the competitiveness of the economy and the well-being of Ukrainian citizens. The government has been forced to point out that, according to the findings of the Supreme Council Committee of Ukraine's budget proposals to Ukraine's draft State Budget Act 2003, unwarranted revenues of Ukraine's state budget amounting to 8 billion dollars have been made. The government insists on excluding from the budget conclusions and proposals of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine incomes such as an increase of $1 billion to 240 million of the global fund's income at a value added tax, which effectively makes it impossible to finance the overdue debt of the VAT reimbursement budget to exporters; a shift from privatisation to government budget revenues, with an increase of 2 times from $2.2 billion to 4.5 billion, which is unfounded and endangers the implementation of budget expenditure and is accompanied by the creation of an artificial surplus of a budget that does not have an economic basis. The government does not agree with the increase in the special fund under the article "Paying for services provided by budgetary institutions" in the amount of 700 million dollars, such as those that are unfounded and contradict the principles of budgetary and administrative reform. It's different. The income part of the budget also includes additional tax revenues that are subject to unadopted laws and are not backed up by the necessary financial economic justification. On the basis of the above, in this part, the government insists on excluding the above-mentioned additional revenues to the income part of the budget and the inclusion in the text of a draft regulation of an additional item which we believe could be formulated in such a way that the proposals of the Supreme Council to increase the income portion of the 2003 State Budget can only be taken into account if appropriate laws are adopted, which actually increase the income portion of the 2003 budget. These proposals have already been partially introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, and the question concerning the text of the ruling, "The budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." The government is of the opinion that the second draft of the "Budget Conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" does not comply with part two of article 41 and contradicts part one of article 42 of the Code of Budget, since these articles provide that the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council are part of the draft law on the State Budget. Instead, according to the Budget Code, the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to finalize the draft law according to budgetary conclusions and to address issues that are unrealistic. Taking into account the above, if the Supreme Council agrees with the above-mentioned proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it is possible to support the above-mentioned draft decision, taking into account the changes and additions proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we have a number of orders offered by the national deputies. There is a draft decision of the Supreme Council on the inadmissibility of the draft Supreme Council ruling, which is proposed by the People's Deputies of Desert Tenko and Polishchuk. In accordance with the Rules, we must first put questions to the vote on unacceptableness. Valerius Pavlovich Pashtovetenko, please, on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u121	After consultations on the Committee on Budgets and a member of the Committee on Budgets and the faction and the Committee of the Supreme Council, I withdraw my proposal. We agreed that after the adoption of the budget we would support it with the government individually, we would consider the matter of the knowledge of the committee and the knowledge of all the executive bodies that have a direct bearing on it. So please withdraw my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's easier for us to work now. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposed by the Budget Committee on the approval of conclusions and proposals, is being put to the vote. Please, with a motive. Anatoly Frost, please, then Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u123	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Communist faction, Frost, 83 constituency, Zaporez region. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Anatoly Kirilovich! I have this question: do I have to see if I should accept this budget, whether I should vote or not? Because what it is -- it's not happening, and we're going to accept it again -- it's going to fail again. Anatolia Kirilovich Kinaha's commission for the gasification of Wessel and Stepnog's letter signed for the minister of finance, for the commission of Petrashk, and so on, for six months, no more copies have come to Zaporezki district. So, perhaps it is better, really, not to accept any budget today and let every area live as it lives, by its laws and by its budget? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u124	Please, Samofalov, then Cherniak. National MP Samofalov, European Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u125	European Choice Group MP Samofalov. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to clarify how many draft regulations are available and are there any regulations among them, taking into account the proposals made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u126	Please, National Deputy Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u127	I want to contact the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. The most alarming trend in the budget process is the steady increase in tax underdevelopment. The Supreme Council keeps cheating on her, we do it every year, and the poor woman is growing. Now it's 12 billion dollars. In the draft budget, the government is planning to increase tax inequities by 1 billion 100 million dollars per VAT alone. The question is: Why does the government not take extraordinary extraordinary measures to solve the problem of underprivilegedness and push parliament to cheat and plan to re-encourage the underprivileged? I consider this to be a major disadvantage for government and tax administration. And I don't think we can agree to that principle. And we need to put an end to the growth of underprivileged women in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u128	Fellow dignitaries, motivated by the National MP Bespalov. Are you talking? Here's your turn, please. Then Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u129	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished deputies, distinguished guests. The 2003 budget would be referred to as the installment budget. First, the budget is built on an old tax base, i.e. it does not provide for a reduction in tax pressure on citizens and entrepreneurs. Secondly, to spend on increased production, the creation of jobs by our Kabmin's top managers, for some reason, do not want to. Thirdly, VAT repayments, which amount to more than 6 billion, rise in the air. So the enterprises will be out of working capital this year. It's not going to return that amount. It's not going to be equal to the default. It's not going to be any less. Finally, the clearly stated repayments of other debts, including savings, wages and pensions, will not be found in this budget either. In analysing our economy, from a stable point of view, we cannot today be considered a country whose budget can be prepared by classical methods. I therefore propose that the budget be re-readed, refined and budgeted, as the President has said in his message. There should be at least 5-6 per cent growth per year.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u130	Please, Vaszczuk. Dear colleagues, I'm only asking for motive, this is not a discussion, all of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the Committee on Budgets, the Head of the Committee on Budgets, and I am asking for the support of all the National Deputies. In the text of that budget that we were given, there's an appendix that continues the practice of the old days. The distribution by the Committee of Budgets, specifically in the territories and districts of certain only all or a large part of the capital investment, which is already scarce, is being done in our country. So I want to hear that it's in the protocol, so the faction of the agrarians asks, that it's the prerogative of those ministries, of those departments that are going to be put away by capitalization, not the budget committee. Without that supplement, we'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you once again, we're asking questions of motive, not discussion. We had a four-and-a-half-hour discussion last night. Hubsky. Just a minute. Well, calm down, please, this is not a discussion. I'm telling you again. Hubsky, Rudenko, and Asadchev both signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u133	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Anatolia Kirilovich, respected colleagues. In support of the position of the Committee on Budgets, our parliamentary group has the view that, yes, it is possible to adopt in the first reading not only by the end of the year tax laws but also by the specific tax laws to be included in the transcript, 1276-1, 1278-1, 1111, and the added tax law. And that's what we're going to ask you to do in the stenogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u134	Rudenko, please. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to be on the spot, we need to vote. Rudenko, please turn on the microphone. Talk to me, mate. Talk to me. Microphone up, please. Please, Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u135	Thank you. Gurenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to join Prime Minister Anatoly Kinach in his speech. This budget cannot be voted on or voted on because we are again offered to vote for a cat in a bag. And as long as there is not a special session in the Supreme Council that discusses the income part of the budget, the discussion of all the sources and their status, in my opinion, cannot be voted on for this budget. And our faction was and remains in that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u136	National Deputy Assadchev. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u137	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to do it on a case-by-case basis especially for those who have offered to re-read it. There is no re-readable. The budget is first represented by the government. At this stage, factions have the right to make draft decisions to reject it. No factions other than "Our Ukraine" have made such decrees. So all of you, by default, approved and took the project to work. At this stage, the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee alone are voted upon. If we don't vote them, it's just going to stop this process. The Committee on Budgets will not recycle anything, of course, because it balanced its proposals and made them. It will just lie there and wait until it is finally resolved. There's no other way. There's a budget code, there's a procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down. It's a discussion. It's not a replica. Dear colleagues! There's a motion for a decision made by a profile committee. I want to support the National Deputy of Assadchev. We took this budget to work. We had to reject it during the presentation. We must now act in accordance with the budget code. When he's in second reading. One minute, there were motives. When it's in the second reading, then we're going to vote for the income and expenditure and in the middle we're going to discuss the changes that are appropriate. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I respect the committee's head, but. Dear colleagues! Well, you'll give me a chance to say, and then, if you do, with a motive. Can we not interrupt, give or fail? So, dear colleagues, we need to make up our minds today. If we want to postpone this question, we can vote, but this is going to be a wrong decision -- re-reading the first reading. The budget code does not provide for this. We should vote today for the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee and send this ruling to the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers. We just don't have another way out, we translate responsibility to someone else. Please, Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that our Committee on Economic Policy has put forward a proposal specifically for a budget deviation at the stage of his presentation. I don't know what this is about. And not just our committee. And if he wasn't put to the vote -- that proposal -- that's probably the problem with keeping the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We do. If a vote is taken and the first decision is made, then the first decision is taken. If not accepted, it is automatically rejected. This, I think, is an obvious regulatory rule, let's do it accordingly. I'm betting on the voting project. Please, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! I'd like to make it clear about Drykappa. The logic of the committee, which is reflected in the conclusions, is as follows. The committee didn't consider any proposals for control, they were put together in a table. The committee proposed those proposals for legislative initiatives that came by October 1st, according to the Budget Code. Since the government project did not have funds for stupefying, and in what the committee proposes, the committee found resources for this funding. We have gathered them and at the stage of preparing the draft budget for second reading will be discussed on certain principles regarding equality of regions, chief budget managers, distribution of funds. Now, we don't distribute this decision in any way, we just define this principle. That's the first one. And editorially regarding the proposal of the Honourable Prime Minister. When we built the income section in the text articles, we halted certain laws that gave benefits. We support the logic of the Cabinet of Ministers, that it is better to do so by enacting the relevant laws by the Supreme Council, and we do not deny that the increase in the income portion would be linked -- I say for the transcript -- to the adoption of the relevant laws by the Supreme Council. In view of the latest addition, I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues to support the Cabinet of Ministers' decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u143	As for the conclusions and proposals of the Budget Committee, for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u144	Don't go away, Peter Alexiovich, stay there. I am voting on draft decree number 2000/p-1 on the approval of the conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2003, taking into account the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:00:38]] For 278 For - 278, the decision is made. The factions. What will be the suggestions? You don't? I'm betting on the vote as a whole. Please vote. Vote please! [[13:01:14]] For 279
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u145	I thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u146	For -279, the decision is made. The factions. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Act amending articles 41 and 134 of the Code of Laws on Ukraine's work on responsibility for late payment of wages. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich from the committee Is there a need to speak, Jaroslav Mikhailovich? Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! I remind the Ukrainian people's deputies and, in particular, our voters that Bill 1195 is proposing to supplement the Code of Labour with positions that will increase the responsibility of managers for not paying wages or not paying in full. This problem is particularly felt by the MPs. Remind me: A contract of employment proposed by the owner or authority authorized by him may be terminated in the event of the actions of the manager of the enterprise, the institutions, the organizations resulting in the indemnity of payment, or paid in amounts lower than the statutory minimum wage. And a second offer. The law provides for the establishment of a material liability for workers in the full amount of damage caused by an enterprise, an institution, an organization in the event that the head of an enterprise, an institution, an organization is responsible for the non-timely payment of wages for more than 1 month, resulting in the payment of compensation for the breach of the payout period. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour has decided to consider two amendments to the Ukrainian National MP Adam Martinyuk, Adam Ivanovich, I think he will vote in favour of this bill today. And we're rejecting the amendment of the Ukrainian national deputy colleague Gavrish, which is why I'm asking you to put to the vote the amendment of colleague Gavrish if he insists. If not, put this law to a second reading vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, do you understand? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the national deputy Gavrish. He's taking down the national deputy Gavrish, isn't he?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u150	The national MP, Gavrish, is filming. I'm putting the bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u151	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u152	And that's where it all counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u153	The amendment of the Ukrainian national MP, Mother, is taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, since all the amendments have been taken into account, I am voting on the adoption of the draft law on amending articles 41 and 134 of the Labour Code for adoption in a second reading. Please vote. Please vote, the faction "our Ukraine" is social law. [[13:04:22]] For the 220. Dear colleagues, the system didn't work, it doesn't show how they vote. Change the vote. Check why the voting system doesn't work. Adam Ivanovich, there's your amendment included, I ask you to vote. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the second reading of the draft law on amending articles 41 and 134 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. Please vote. Valerius Pavlovich, please vote. [[13:05:13]] For 273 For -273, the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u155	The committee requests that this bill be adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the adoption of this project as a matter of law. Please vote. Please vote. Bogdan Volodymyrovich, please vote. [[13:05:38]] For 278 For - 278, the decision is made. The factions, please. Yes, and now, Your Honor, the Zarubinsky National Deputy of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u157	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs and listeners, I would ask according to the procedure, in accordance with the practice that was in place when important voting takes place, for our voters to hear what faction votes in favour of which bill, especially when it comes to the social needs of our population, when it comes to work, education and so on. And then, I think our deputies are going to find out that transparency talks have to do with their vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u158	Thank you, I'll take your offer. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft law on prevention and resistance to legalization and the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means and second reading. Reporter Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin as deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u159	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! At last, I have the opportunity, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Banking, to report to the Supreme Council a bill on prevention and resistance to the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means in the second reading. This law has a long history, it's complicated, it's moved several times, it's been taken off the premises. And I'm going to remind you a little bit of the history of this bill. This law was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council on June 14, 2002. During June this law was considered by our committee, was approved and made available for the first reading at the meetings of the Supreme Council. This law was discussed on July 4, resulting in the adoption of it in the first reading, with the national deputies expressing a number of serious comments and suggestions to it. In order to take these comments into account and to prepare the draft for second reading, a working group was set up under the direction of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to which were the members of the National Deputies who expressed their desire to work on the project, as well as the co-workers of the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Finance of the National Bank of Ukraine. The heads of the working group were the national deputies of Osik and Rybochuk. The working group worked in July, August, and September. In the course of her work, suggestions and comments were discussed at the time of her first reading, as well as by national deputies such as Stretovich, Gavrish, Semenyuk, and others. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I am pleased to express my thanks on behalf of the committee to these and other deputies for their interest and cooperation. And I want to point out that much of these proposals have been included in the last edition of this law. In September, a number of comments and suggestions came to the committee after the parliamentary holidays, including interested organizations such as the Association of Ukrainian Banks, PVTS, the League of Insurance Organizations, and others. All of these suggestions have been considered and are included in the comparative table given to you. During the consideration of the June bill, hundreds of suggestions and comments were received. Some of them are such that they actually exclude each other from the content. Thus, the working group and the committee carried out a very serious job to find compromises, compromises, and to maximize the wishes of the national MPs. During September alone, the Committee on Finance and Banking had twice considered the bill in its meetings, literally in an articleistic manner. And all the conflicting points were discussed democratically and the decisions were taken by vote. Even in recent weeks, now, before this discussion, a series of meetings took place in the leadership of the Supreme Council, consultations with representatives of the various factions in which all those who wished could participate. Before I go to the specific provisions of the document and its comments, I would like to stop at the reasons behind its adoption. In Ukraine today, unfortunately, there is no major, single legislative act that regulates the main situations in the area of prevention and countering the introduction into legal circulation of proceeds obtained in a criminal way. As a result of this situation, there is actually a dispersion and a lack of efficiency in the work of many executive authorities to combat this phenomenon. This is also due to the lack of a single approach to preventing the legalization of incomes in these organs, the lack of authority, and the absence of effective mechanisms for their interaction in the field. The first priority of this law, which I am presenting to you right now, is to create an effective mechanism for combating the laundering of dirty money, which is known to be drug trafficking, smuggling, prostitution, fraud with financial resources, terrorism and so on. Such a mechanism is now established in virtually all European countries, including our neighbours: Russia, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, and Bulgaria. In fact, it is an indicator of the transparency of the financial systems of these countries. When it comes specifically to the law, what are the main points that determine the essence of this bill? The main thing is to create a financial monitoring system. The financial monitoring system consists of two levels: primary and national. The primary financial monitoring entities are banks and other financial institutions, paying organizations. The bodies of State monitoring are the central executive bodies of the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Pension Fund, the Securities Control Commission. A section 3 is introduced into the law, which lists financial transactions that are subject to mandatory financial monitoring. In the first alternative, this list referred to the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is now the prerogative of the Supreme Council. This is fully in line with the requirements of the Strasbourg Convention and the FAT. It's very important to introduce a new term into the law. It's called "predictive crime." The law defines it as an act under which the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides for punishment for a term of three or more years. Why is this done? First of all, because money laundering is a unique crime, the only crime of its kind that can occur only after the crime that occurred before the crime. It's different. It is very important that crimes included in articles 207 and 212 of the Criminal Code, namely, the concealment of foreign exchange and tax evasion, are excluded from prenatal crimes. And this position is also approved by the FAT and fully corresponds to article 18 of the Strasbourg Convention, which states that the reason for refusing to cooperate may be that the crime that predates laundering, which concerns the request, is a tax, fiscal crime. So we're totally in line with this convention. Finally. What can be the result for Ukraine if this law is not passed. We all know that there has been another FAT meeting the day before, where Ukraine has remained on the blacklist of countries that do not fight money-laundering. Russia was excluded from this list, Ukraine remained. And this is a disgraceful phenomenon for our country. We certainly need to get rid of this. What will be the specific outcome? First. This is a decision to apply sanctions to Ukraine. It was postponed until December 15. If we do not have the law by now, it is possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u160	Dear colleague! Let's move on to an article vote. This is a vote, not a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u161	The committee's proposal is to adopt this bill in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u162	Let's vote on the proposals that are rejected. For what reasons?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u163	Your proposals are taken into account. We talked to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u164	We will now go on every proposal, dear fellows. We'll vote on every proposal. Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u165	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I was at a meeting of the working group and warned that I had made an offer working on this document on August 30. After receiving a comparative table and seeing that those proposals did not match the content I was submitting, on September 20, I again made repeated proposals taking into account the text that today should go to the vote. As a working group meeting, I spoke with you to include these suggestions. passed on the disk, passed on the corresponding suggestions in writing, but unfortunately they are not included again in the comparative table. So actually, once again, I want to say, I'm going to talk every procedure. But this law today is not about legalization but about concealing the corresponding funds that are now coming illegally into the state. I also want to say that we can't do two structures in the state again today. The same structure today is in tax inspection, you're creating the same structure with the Ministry of Finance. This means that each clan today has an appropriate privatization scheme, and each clan thinks that it will have an appropriate legalization. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u166	Valentina Semenovna, give your suggestions in writing and when the vote will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u167	I handed them all over, according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u168	This is not a discussion. All of it. Please, National Deputy Bespali. It's a second reading. And Klukkowski. I'm the only one I'm asking for, with a motive, please. Or procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u169	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. I’m just following a specific correction at number 28 on page 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! We'll get to her when we look at her. We will now vote on every amendment. Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u171	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head! I'm actually motivated. I want to point out that the bill is complicated. Today, only a comparative table is given in the morning. Here in the session room, I was able to see, not study, but look at half of the text. I have already found several positions that are unconstitutional, which were not in the first reading that appeared in the second reading. So I ask that you give the MPs the opportunity to work with the text of this very responsible law. I'm paying attention to everyone who doesn't understand what this is about. The employees of private firms are delegated the powers of public authorities, with discriminating powers, with the right to act on their own discretion, on their own suspicion. Customers are expected to be required to provide information that is not provided for in Ukraine’s legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u172	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u173	And on this basis, it's all anti-constitutional. So I ask you to postpone the voting week so that you can study this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u175	I'd like to say a few words about that. The bill was discussed in the working group and in the committee, starting in July of this year. For three months he was discussed in the working group and in the committee. Any of the deputies could be involved in this discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues! This question is not new. Dear colleagues! Just a minute. It didn't come out today. I'll make an offer. Give it a chance, mate. So I'm going to suggest who hasn't been able to get to know the comparative table yet, and I'm going to suggest that we postpone it to 16 hours, and we're going to get to know each other during the break, and we're going to get to the bottom of this. Is there no objection? All of it. After 16 hours, we will return to the matter. Thank you. Victor Volodymyrovich, 4:00 p.m. Dear colleagues, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation is being considered. [[second reading]] Reporter: Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Let's do an article vote right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that there's a package of three laws in Parliament -- that's a tax on profits, that's a tax on changes to the excise assembly, and that's a re-reading of the income tax on individuals, citizens. All these laws are inseparable from the budgetary procedure and cannot be taken away from the consideration of the State Budget Act. That's why, unfortunately, by working again, let's say, in a not very constructive environment in this room and not really expecting this law to be passed today, I still want to report it and point out some differences that have not been taken into account in the drafting of this bill with the government. Two goals were pursued by the company's revenue taxation project. The first is to maximize tax evasion and tax planning; and the second is to fiscally encourage investors to invest in innovation. In order to deal with the project, the Finance Committee organized 8 round tables with participants in specific types of professional activities, and held 7 working group meetings at which legislators and other interested persons were invited. As a result of the project, we can find out that there are three conceptual differences, this is the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, which I would like to publish and ask the presiding officer to put these three positions to the vote of Parliament in order to find out whose side the Parliament - or committee - or the Cabinet of Ministers is taking. First, the Cabinet of Ministers opposes an increase in the rate of depreciation. However, we all know about the so-called '2005', namely, that by the end of 2005, more than 92 percent of the core funds in the SND countries that were introduced before 1991 are derived from exploitation. So in 2005, the country could end up with no investment and no future real economy. That's why I would like to ask you, honourable national MPs, the question: do we want to develop the real economy, increase the number of jobs, or do we have an interesting fiscal advantage today? The alternative proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers is to split the core fund groups into 6 without raising the depreciation rate. By the way, the committee has also proposed to double the 5 percent write-off, you know, up to 10 percent, which can improve the state of capital investment in the fund-raising industry and agriculture. It's different. The Minister's office disagrees with the committee's position on the establishment of a quarterly tax period for this tax. You know today that companies have to pay advance payments every month. But we all know that the average circulation of goods in Ukraine is 1.75 months, and that's, you know, on the average, on the body: where there's trade, there's very fast traffic. Where there are basic industries, it is clear that no moon can be spoken of. Minfin's argument is that the income from this tax is less than 12 of the revenue of the budget. So if we move from a month to a quarterly tax method, we're going to have problems financing budget salaries every month. However, social expenditure accounts for less than 80 per cent of the budget and borrowing plans for 6 billion. We were just looking at this document. That is, planning these financial gaps is in the hands of Minfin and should not apply to payers. You know, honourable national MPs, in principle, how many times a income tax is paid in normal countries per year. There's one payment a year and two advances in the middle. That's it. Let's at least take the first step to improve the situation in basic industries. Finally, the Cabinet of Ministers insists on introducing double or cumulative dividend taxation. Unfortunately, we can't agree to this because it leads to the naturalization of the economy. We do not want to have, I apologize, an economy made up of unrelated legal persons. That is why, Mr. Chairman, I would ask for these three differences to hear the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers and each of them to vote on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers in view of the fact that the proposal was not supported by the Committee and there are alternative committee proposals in the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u178	Let us go and vote on the articles. Then we'll be determined, dear colleagues. That's how I propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u179	You can go to the articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u180	I propose to go to the articles, and there, when it will be. There's a preamble and the title of the law-- no objection? Next. Article 1? One minute, we're going to get to those amendments where they're accounted for or rejected. Yes, the first amendment is essentially taken into account. No objections? Second amendment counted. The third amendment of the People’s Deputy of Verevsky is taken into account with the clarification of the wording. No objections? Fourth amendment counted. The fifth amendment of the People’s Deputy Desert has been rejected. Are you insisting on her vote, Valery Pavlovich? Do you insist on voting on your fifth amendment? Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u181	Well, then a brief comment should be made. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u182	He's done it. Amendment number six of Shepetin’s national deputy was rejected. It makes it impossible to count gross expenditure and gross income. Is Shepetin the National MP insisting? No, he doesn't. Hirschfeld counted, 8th revision counted. The ninth amendment, partially counted. There's no objection, is there? Further amendment to the 10th People’s Deputy Hirschfeld, rejected, leads to tax evasion. National MP Hirschfeld insists on voting? Oh, no? Don't insist. Moving on, Amendment 11, dismissed, Cabinet of Ministers. The Minister's office insists on her vote? I took out the Cabinet of Ministers. Amendment of the 12 People's Deputies of Hirschfeld, do you insist on her vote? No, it's not. 13 readjustments included. The 14th amendment is rejected. National MP Hirschfeld insists? Are you insisting? He insists. I'm betting on amendment 14 of the People's Deputies of Hirschfeld, and I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u183	The committee does not support this. [[13:27:47]] For 104
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u184	The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 15 of the Gurov People's Deputies, rejected. The Gurov National MP insists on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u185	Then let us make some comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u186	Let's vote and there will be no comments. I'd like to vote on the amendment of the Gurov People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u187	It's a committee against it. [[13:28:21]] For-74.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u188	The decision is not taken. Amendment 16 counted. 17 Amendment, Cabinet of Ministers, partially counted. No objections to the Cabinet of Ministers? None. National MP Matvienkov, Amendment 18, overruled. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u189	A small comment at the usual price. In order to remove all the legal provisions and clarify what is laid down in this bill. Unlike today's situation when the burden of proof that you have a normal price comes to you, and the tax service can come and charge you extra credits, saying that "I don't think you have a normal price." This bill introduces a completely different procedure. He says that the burden of proof that you sold on a contract, not at the usual price, comes from a tax office that has to prove its right in a court of law. And that changes the way you look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, one minute. This is the procedure of the second reading in which the vote is taken. Please, I don't understand why you're acting so aggressively. Take the word from a procedure or from a motive. I ask you again: please, calm down! Landik, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u191	Thank you. Sergei Anatolyevich, let's do this. I'm really supportive. I support this law, and it's normal, and it's done very correctly. Let us speak, as they say, in the same language and so forth. The normal price is both inside and in the case of goods imported into Ukraine, so that the same normal price is distributed to them. Do you understand what I'm saying? And here, inside the state, and when to the carriage. That's the only difference. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u192	No, that's what it says here. Because when goods are imported into customs territory, the normal price is defined as a customs authority. And by another law, it's the Ukrainian Customs Code, and it's like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u193	Sergey Anatolyovich, I ask you again. Let's see, dear fellows, if this is your amendment, if you've made it, once again I say, we're going through the articles. It's a second reading procedure, I'm telling you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u194	It exists today, so for external economic contracts there is already a mechanism for determining normal prices. We're just saying that applying it should be civilized. Not like that. You know, there have been cases in the analogy method used. They came to this store, they said, "Listen, your neighbor sells this milk for two cents more, and you have two cents less." So you're going to have to pay more than two dollars. For that to happen, a normal appeal procedure is introduced to determine, to prove the normal price in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u195	I'm going to say again, let's not make an incision here. If this is your amendment, you have the right to demand your argument. Amendment 19 counted. Amendment 20 is essentially taken into account. 21 counted in part. Hennady Andriyovich, do you have any objection? 22 revisions counted, 23 counted, 24 counted, 25 rejected. National MP Hirschfeld insists on voting? No, it's not. 26 counted. 27 counts. Yeah, we're going where it's not counted now, where it's rejected. 33 rejected. National Deputy Hirschfeld, do you insist? Yeah. I'm betting on the vote for the amendment of the People's Deputy Hirschfeld, that's 33 amendments. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u196	The committee denies the committee's opposition. [[13:33:02]] For-89
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u197	Z-89. The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 40 of the Bespalogo People's Deputy. Is Bespali’s national MP insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u198	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. This amendment, in my view, is absolutely fundamental. That's why I let myself say it. This is about who determines when prices are subject to government regulation and how important it is when the sale of goods is made in a forced order. I am convinced that such important issues must be determined by law and exclusively by law. And according to the committee, such issues can be defined by legislation, i.e. acts by the President, acts by the Cabinet of Ministers, etc. So I ask the committee, first of all, to accept this amendment. And as for what the President's decrees are today, it is according to the Transitional Regulations that these decrees should be reviewed. What is constructive is to be transposed into laws, and what is not right is to be rejected. And giving the right to enforce price regulation to any local council, to any central authority, is a fundamental step backwards. I don't think you can do that. I'd like the committee to support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u199	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u200	The committee does not support this amendment, because I would advise the MP of Bespalam to look into the Law on Prices and Price Creation, and he will see that there is a reference in this law to the powers of the executive authorities that make their own decisions on the implementation or cancellation of price regulation. So, I'm sorry, this act of the Cabinet of Ministers, let's say the mayor of a district or district administration is not the law. It is a legal act or a legislative act. That's why we can't do that here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u201	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, you don't. Let's move on. Offer to the 48th People's Deputy Hirschfeld. Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u202	This machine came in because we didn't support it right now. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u203	Do you insist on voting? Oh, no? I'll bet you a vote on the proposal of National Deputy Hirschfeld of the 48th. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u204	The committee does not support this. [[13:35:50]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The factions. Correction of 64 national deputies to Matthew Paul. You insist on turning it on. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u205	A little comment. It's completely incomprehensible because it says so, literally a second of your attention. "I'll sell the goods that have been used normally is considered the price that is equal to. The cost of the core fund reduced by the amount of depreciation." The thing is, goods don't depreciate. Major funds are being depreciated. So this is an economic impossibility, let's put it mildly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u206	Since the national MP insists, I put the vote to the vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u207	The committee does not support this amendment. [[13:36:50]] For the 17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u208	"For" - 17. Amendment 57 of the People's Deputy Hirschfeld. Are you insisting on her vote? Are you insisting? I'll bet the vote on Amendment 57.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u209	The committee does not support this amendment. [[13:37:18]] For-55
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u210	We're looking at questions. What procedure? We're in the middle of something. Your amendment will be a vote. The decision is not taken, "Z" is 55. Well, one minute, we're in the middle of a question. Your amendment will be, then you have the right to take it. Right. Amendment 58. National Deputy Vassadze. Are you insisting on this amendment? No, he doesn't. Amendment 59 of the People's Deputy Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u211	It's identical, in other words only.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u212	Are you insisting on her? You can insist on anything, but you can bring it in, and then you'll insist. Read the Rules. National MP Hirschfeld, do you insist? I'm betting on an amendment to the 59th People's Deputies of Hirschfeld. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u213	The committee does not support this. [[13:38:20]] For-52
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u214	The decision is not taken. Amendment 60 of the Gurov People's Deputy. The Gurov National MP insists on this amendment? Oh, no? It's coming off.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u215	It's coming off.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u216	Amendment No. 61 of the People's Deputy of Verevski. Verevsky insists? Oh, no? No, it's not. Amendment 62 of the people’s deputies Matvienkov and Boyk Are you insisting? You're filming, aren't you? Copy that. Amendment 63 of the Zubanov People's Deputy. Is Zubanov's national deputy insisting? None. Let's move on. Amendment 71 of the People's Deputy Desert. Valery Pavlovich, do you insist? No, it's not. Amendment 72. People's deputies, Matthew and Boyko, do you insist? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, so on. No, no. I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, listen! Now we have passed the first article, we should vote on the first article. I put to the vote the Preamble, there was no objection to it, and the first article. Please vote
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u217	The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u218	We counted it all. I'm asking you to back me up. [[13:40:07]] For 196
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u219	It's not coming through.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u220	For - 196, no decision is made. The factions. I'm going to announce, one minute, I'm going to put on my glasses. "Our Ukraine", in -2, communists - 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Urban Ukraine" - 39, SDPU (o) - 31, "Regions of Ukraine" - 37, socialists - 0, Block of July Timoshenko - 0. "Democratic Initiatives" - 17, "European Choice" - 4, NDP - 17, "People's Government" - 16, "Agrarians" - 14, "People's Choice" - 11, non-fractional - 8. Out of procedure, the People's Deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u221	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues, it is indeed a very important law, one of the bills which is indeed aimed at reducing the tax press, which can indeed fill the income part of the budget. If this situation is not resolved today, Sergey Anatolyevich, I have an offer for you. Sergei Anatolyevich! I have a proposal for you: if the situation, indeed, today so, well, let's say this, given that this bill has really only been distributed in the morning, and many deputies have come up with a series of, well, objective issues, because the law is complicated, it depends on all the economic activities of enterprises, let's move it to the next Thursday. We will study it properly so that we can re-vote it. We'll study it more until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u222	I made such an offer, by the way, from the very morning on. One plus: we haven't spent time, we've passed the first article and, I think, by voting on it on the next Thursday, if there's room consent, we'll start again. But I very much ask you, honourable national deputies, we will not pass these laws by the end of the year, we will have a year of old tax base and old budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u223	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should support this proposal, go back to the next Thursday. I just want to pay attention to those who supported the first reading, in fact, of the budget. There it was about our obligation to enact the relevant laws and I don't understand the position of the faction "Our Ukraine" in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u225	Thank you. From what? What's the procedure? Is it procedure at all? Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u226	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we didn't vote on the first article just because you don't give a word on the question that's being discussed, and that's why our faction didn't vote. But I point out to you that, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if there are proposals from the national deputies and they insist on voting, they need to give them a minute to justify their proposals. I haven't seen Deputy Hirschfeld in my eyes, for example, but I think he needs it in every position, if he insists, to be able to speak out in order to justify his position, and so the committee representative comes out, well, he's got the upper hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u227	A respected colleague should probably have a look before teaching. When an MP wanted to speak as a national MP, he took it and spoke. And I ask him: he agrees with the rejection or he asks to put it to a vote. And I would ask you not to stop our process. National MP Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u228	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I apologize, I may not yet fully understand the Rules in ours, but for the first time I have encountered the procedure that the first law, now the second law, is the law, you take it down in the middle of consideration without making any decision. The Rules, as far as I know, can't do that. Explain to me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u229	I'm explaining. If such a proposal was made by the people’s deputy Matvienkov, this proposal was supported by the committee, but it is not denied, I simply moved it. And I didn't break anything here. Dear colleagues. The draft Act on Amendments to Certain Act of Ukraine on Excise Assembly is being submitted to your consideration. Calm down, please, you don't have to shout. Better read the Rules at this time and everything will be fine. Please, National Deputy Tsushko Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u230	Dear colleagues and the distinguished Presidency, I have the same proposal that has just been tabled by Deputy Matvienko. This law also has an impact on the budget of 300 million people. It has to put into the budget, and today's situation, well, it's clear to everyone what to spend time doing, because it won't be voted again. I'm asking you to move him to the next Thursday when all the factions will vote. He's not gonna make it. Why spend half an hour taking it off again? Samofal, colleague, you know that and smile. So, you know, they said a joke. Thank you. I understand, I'm saying the same thing. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to do the same as the profit tax law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, a proposal was made by the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vasil Petrovich Tsuko, to move the matter to the next Thursday for consideration and vote. What's your offer? Do you agree?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u233	If I put it to a vote, you know they won't support it, we'll have to look at it. Dear colleagues, your consideration is about the draft law, and I think it should be done here, the draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the penitentiary system, in the second reading. Dear colleagues, you know the essence of this law, we've considered it. National MP Plahoi, is there a need to report him? Dear colleagues, the proposals for this law are all taken into account. All accounted for. I would like to immediately vote on the adoption of this law in the second reading. Please. Dear colleagues, mobilize, there's only a few minutes left. I am voting for a second reading of the draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the penitentiary system. This is document number 1109. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:48:04]] For 217 The factions. Dear colleagues, you are being considered by a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Code, the second reading. All proposals for this law are taken into account. What, will we do as we did with the previous law? Out of procedure, National Deputy Rudzikowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u234	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You can see there's no drafts coming through. The laws are necessary. I'm talking to you, most of you. Let's go and meet the people's deputies who insist on considering the political situation in Ukraine and unlock the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u235	Dear colleague. I would like to remind you once again that when we come to the issue of inclusion in the agenda, I will once again ask the MPs to vote on your request. And you don't block until now. And let's work with tolerance. Gmir's national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u236	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, well, first of all, in a healthy sense, can only block a decision from the majority. Never before has the minority blocked the decision. One of two: either the majority will but cannot, then it is an impotent majority; or it can, but it does not, then most are unconstructive. I therefore have a request: to hold consultations with the majority and to require it to perform its functions, i.e. to enact laws. And don't talk about unconstructiveness or blocking a minority anymore. It's impossible theoretically if it's a minority.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u237	Thank you. I think that's what we really need to do. But you understand very well that a revolutionary situation is taking place. Because they want and they can't, well, you know what the signs are. Dear colleagues. Draft Act amending certain laws, legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Code. [[second reading]] All offers are included. I ask, before we go to the vote now, let's vote and accept this document on the second reading, it's neutral, it's apolitical, it's just necessary for the country today. Let's get our work done by the break. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[13:51:39]] For 221 The factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask the People's Deputy of Mishur to announce the order of our vote in favour of the candidature of the Constitutional Court. Now, out of procedure, one minute, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, at 2 p.m., voting for the appointment of Constitutional Court Judge Ivan Pantelijovich. Voting will take place in our traditional places. When you get the ballot, you're going to have to present a parliamentary card, you're going to get a ballot of two squares on the right hand side, one on the right hand side, and the other one on the right hand side, I'm not supporting the candidate. [[Wait, at 14 we'll start voting.]] The vote will continue from 14 hours to 14.45 hours. We'll be able to give you the results of the vote after 16. I've got everything, if you don't have any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u239	Doesn't he have any questions? You had a procedure, please. People's Deputies of John, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, I call your attention to this law again, which we have not voted on. It is a matter of amending the Labour Correctional Code. The whole law consists of three paragraphs, four paragraphs. There are three amendments that are included. It is a matter of bringing legislation into line with the new laws adopted. I strongly ask you to enter into responsibility. There is no policy here. Let us vote. I'll ask you one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m0.u241	After your insistence, I'll put the vote to the vote. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Please vote during the recess. At 16 o'clock we continue our work.
