ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please take your jobs and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:04:03]] Registered -378 There are 378 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Catherineczuk Mikoli Dmitrovic. Let's welcome him and wish him all kinds of good things. Dear colleagues, today, November 19th is 5 years old from the day the first cosmonaut of an independent Ukraine flew into space. Leonid Konstantinovich Kadenyuk is now a national MP, a member of the faction of the People's Democratic Party, who has opened a new page in the conquest of the universe by our state. Let us warmly welcome Leonid Costinovich and the Ukrainian people with this memorable event. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen. Dear National Deputies! Dear guests! I am pleased to inform you that there is a delegation of the Committee on Social Policy, the Health Service of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic Parliament, in Kiev with a working visit. Today our Czech colleagues are present in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Allow me, on your behalf, to welcome a guest of honor and to wish them a fruitful stay on a hospitable Ukrainian land. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I inform Ukraine's National Deputies of the withdrawal of Bespalog Oleg Pavlovich from the membership of the People's Authority's Deputy Group, Remenjuka Alexija Ivanovič and Yuhnov's Oleg Ivanovich from the membership of the deputy faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko. At the same time, I received a statement from the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, which reads: "I report that the decision taken at the meeting of the faction of the Yukhnovi Oleg Ivanovich and Remenjuk Alexi Ivanovich were excluded from the faction on 19.11.2002. Please announce," which is what I did. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. From the procedure? Please, National Deputy Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Nikolaynko, head of the Committee on Science and Education, sociofraction. Today, a very large number of educators from all over Ukraine are under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would ask the national MPs to meet with them, and the educators asked us to include a broadcast of the gap and all the questions they would listen to so they could know what they were talking about, because they are under the walls of our Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, there are no objections to broadcasting to the area? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u4	I ask the Secretariat to turn on the broadcast to the area and also to prepare a meeting with representatives of the educational field. I ask the head of the committee and the Secretariat to prepare this meeting. Dear colleagues, while you're preparing for the factions, I'm going to announce the MP's requests with your permission, especially since there's been a lot of them. I ask you to listen carefully so that we can vote quickly. Requests were received from the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Group of Deputies, – Baloga, Ivancho, Mihovic, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal regarding the shortcomings of the organization of the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. [[10:08:51]] For 148 Decision taken. Mary Markusz to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the repayment of the debt from the payment of wages to miners of the Solotvinian Minesman. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:17]] For 133 For 133, you've got it. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the number of official residences of the President of Ukraine and their location and cost of receiving from the State Budget. I'll bet you a vote on the direction, please. [[10:09:53]] For a hundred and For 150, the decision is made. Igor Yukhnowsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return of the radio, radio and television concerts to the administration of the State and for the provision of public funding. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:22]] For 106 For -106, the decision is made. Andrew School to Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the change of location of the General Consulate of the Russian Federation in Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request, please. [[10:10:48]] For-84 For 84, no decision is taken. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the maintenance of the Biosphere Reserve "Ascania Nova". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:13]] For 155 For -155, the decision is made. Hennady Rudenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the efficiency of using nadr and increasing revenue to the State budget. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:38]] Z-70. For 70, no decision is taken. John Vernidubov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in response to his dissatisfaction with the parliamentary appeal regarding the financing of the well - being of former deported citizens in the Sevastopol region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:12:12]] For-86 For -86. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we should respect our own colleagues and support questions on important issues. I ask you to vote. Andrew Schleak to the Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, the second time will be served. Let's move on. Andrew School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conformity of the current legislation with the instructions of the Chief Investigative Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine dated September 12, 2002, the methodological recommendations regarding the detention and delivery of persons who committed crimes. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:13:05]] For 112 To - 112. Decision taken. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of the funds envisioned by the Ukrainian State Budget for 2002 for the computerization of rural schools. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please vote. [[10:13:33]] For-166 For - 166. Decision taken. Sergia Kiwalova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the financing of life support systems for the Odessa National Science Library of Gorkog. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:14:00]] For 128 To - 128. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the law of the law by the Municipal Police Department of Internal Affairs of the Kirovograd region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:14:27]] For 148 For 148. Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the enforcement of legislation by the leadership of the party for the rehabilitation of the seriously ill Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:14:54]] For-140. For a hundred and Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies, Rabbits, Assadchev, and others, to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of effective legislation by the head of the State Tax Administration in the Lviv region of Sergey Medvedchuk concerning the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:15:28]] For 180. For the 180. Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on the attempted bribery of members of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, published by the First National Television with reference to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on that request. Please make up your mind. [[10:16:00]] For-174 For 174. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the issue of notarial registration of land leases. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please vote. [[10:16:27]] For a hundred and For 159. Decision taken. Gennady Rudenko to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Violations by the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine Antimonopoly Legislation and Measures aimed at restricting competition in Ukraine's gas market. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:59]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. John Bastriga to the head of the Central Electoral Commission in the absence of a response to the incomplete payment of salaries to the members of the electoral district’s electoral boards No. 80. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:17:30.]] For-103 The decision has been made. Oleg Tsarov to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Authority for violation of citizens’ rights to housing in connection with the failure of the authorities. District State Administration of Dnipropetrov area of the requirements of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 15 July 2002 on the first-ever measures to support the social sphere of the village and the State Rural Development Programme until 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:18:12]] For-119 Decision taken. Julia Yooffe and George Dashutin to Odessa’s city head in connection with the dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s statement regarding the provision of information on the city’s shield advertising. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:18:42]] For 132 Decision taken. Mikli Kruglov to the President of Ukraine about the construction of the Ukrainian rocket cruiser. I would like to vote in favour of this request. Please vote. [[10:19:07]] For-142 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! In order for the request to be given power, it takes 226 votes. I would like to vote on this request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:19:36]] For-162 Take down the vote, please. This is where the bulge came out. I'm asking you again. I'm putting to the vote a request from Mikaly Kruglov to the President of Ukraine for the construction of a missile cruiser in Ukraine. I would like to vote in favour of this request. This requires a third of the total number of national deputies. Please vote. [[10:20:10]] For 224 "For" is 224, so it's a decision. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine for the construction of the Ukrainian rocket cruiser. Please vote. [[10:20:36]] For 269 "For" is 269, the decision is made. Michael Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation that has arisen in the heat of the Lviv State Academy of Veterinary Medicine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:21:03]] For 134 "For" is 134, the decision is made. Yuri Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in the city of Berezan and in the region of Barishiv in the area of Kyiv concerning the payment of social assistance to persons affected by the accident in the Chernobyl AES. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:21:34]] For-126 "For" - 126, decision taken. Alexander Shevchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine again asked about the problems of obtaining a diagnostic device for the interdistrict centre of medical genetics and prenatal diagnostics in Krivom Rose. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:22:05]] For a hundred and For - 107, the decision is made. Vasil Gladys to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the reconstruction of clean-up buildings in the city of Barwinkovo Kharkiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:22:31]] For 132 For - 132, the decision is made. Deputies'groups: Tarasuk, Yushchenko, Gurenko, Kravchuk and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the procedure for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Strategic Cooperation in the Gas Sector and the inadequacy of its Oil and Gas Act. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:23:10]] For 196 For 196, the decision was taken. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation of energy supply in the Hellenic, Chaplinsky, Calanchansky, Ivankovsky, Novotroytski, Low-Syrogosian regions of the Hersonian region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:23:42]] For-153 For -153. Decision taken. Vasil Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 19 April 2002 No. 551 on the financing of the reconstruction of the water supply facilities of the city of Balaklia Kharkiv district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:24:17]] For-151 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of funding for the Ukrainian National Association "Radon" for the work of eliminating the consequences of the accident in the village of Pirogovo. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:24:48]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Raisie Bogatyrov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the crisis situation in Ukraine's vocational and technical education system. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:25:14]] For-160. Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the repayment of debts in front of the Semenov building site of Chernigov deactivation building for the construction work done in the village of Alexandrovka Semenovska district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:25:48]] For-157. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Social Policy and the work of preventing the replacement of aid to participants in the Chernobyl tragedy for the purpose of providing financial assistance. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:15]] For-149 For - 149, the decision is made. Peter Simonnck to the finance minister of Ukraine for the financing and non-closure of the Swan School of Fine Arts. I'll bet you a vote on that request. [[10:26:43]] For 155 For -155, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies - Tarasjuk, Udovenko, Yushchenko, Turchinov, Gurenko, Kravczuk and others to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the formal conclusion of the procedure for entering into an agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on strategic cooperation in the gas sector since 7 October 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:27:22]] For-198 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of alienation by the City Council of the Alushtine Ukrainian College. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:49]] For-138 Decision taken. Juriya Solomatin to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with an improper review by the prosecutor of the Glossiev district of Kyiv and the prosecutor’s office of the city of Kiev regarding the overcoming of the city’s authority in resolving the issue of the unfinished construction of a public center in the Odessa Square of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:28:28]] For 121 Decision taken. Alexander Baranowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, in connection with his efforts to prevent the guilty from being punished for stealing alcohol from the Zitomir district liquor plant. I'll bet you a vote on the request, please. Please vote. Now, one minute, let the system rest for one second, and we'll vote now. You'll know when the system will be head. I am voting for the request of Alexander Baranowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with an attempt to prevent the guilty from being punished for stealing alcohol in the Zitomir district’s Amazing Spirit Plant. I'd like to make up my mind, Your Honor. Now, let's wait a minute. I'd like to make up my mind, Your Honor. [[10:29:57]] For 135 For - 135, the decision is made. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs, heads of the Ukrainian Security Service for the Investigation of Crime in connection with the burning of the New Ukraine Paradise Company of the Province of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:30:26]] For the 120th. For - 120, the decision is made. Anatoly of Matvienka to the head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine on the provision of information on the payment of taxes by Ukrainian citizens Ahemtov, Medvedczuk, Pinchuk for 2000-2002, which is described in the Polish weekly publication as the richest people of Central and Eastern Europe. I'll bet you a vote on the request, please. [[10:31:04]] For-160. For 160, the decision is made. Andrew School to the head of Security Services 3 for baseless follow-up operations by Lviv County HQ personnel. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:31:32]] For the 180. To - 108. Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka, head of the State Property Fund, in connection with the decision of the Court of Justice to annul the order of the Cerka Regional Department of the Holding Fund for the alienation of the property of the crystal-s business. I'll bet you a vote on that request. [[10:32:04]] For a-117. For - 117. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the factions with queries, statements, information. 45 minutes. Yes, please, from the faction of "Our Ukraine" Stoyan. Get ready for Lechenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u5	Alexander Stoyan, "Our Ukraine", head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear fellow national deputies today, instead of calling the children who would go to school and listen to wise, eternal, MPs, educators stand by the Supreme Council to call our souls, to our hearts, to call to warn us about the disgraceful condition the teacher is in today. The teacher’s minimum wage is below the minimum of living today, and in some of these, poverty is scarce. I want to say that today, along with the students, the Supreme Council and the geology industry are taking care of them, where also people who work on their bras and say they're carrying golden eggs. Dear colleagues, today is not only a situation but also a state of low pay for cultural workers, health workers, and budget workers in general. Therefore, I am asking you very much to consider the budget. The first is that the wages of budget workers should be, as it is written, according to the law of industry. I'm asking the Supreme Council to take down the problem that today is in the manufacturing field, which is the debt problem of 2 billion 400 million dollars to consider the first-line wage law as a first-time payout. I also ask, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to include in the agenda and such a question as to increase the untaxed minimum. Today, taxed at least, it's shameful, as much as 17 bucks. And the next. The U.S. Trade Federation, and this was supported by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, decided that the minimum wage would be at least 70 percent of the minimum wage, or 270 dollars. The government has frozen it. And so it's no accident that one of the reasons why this government resigned, as stated in the President's decree, was not dealing with social issues at all. I call on you on behalf of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, when considering the State Budget, first of all, consider the problems that concern education, medicine, cultural workers today, and the adoption of laws that have been socially oriented. I urge you to do less politics, and first of all to look at the laws of social orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u6	National Deputy Lechenko Vladimir Aleksijovich of the Communist Party of Ukraine, to prepare Alexander Frost, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u7	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I bring to your well - known text statements by the factions of the Company of Ukraine in connection with a significant backlog of funding from the State aid budget for low-income families with children. During the time of Soviet rule, the state constantly cared for the growing generation. "Happy birthday to the children!'--so was the slogan of the day. Caring for children was the primary task of all authorities. Birth was stimulated. Many young mothers had the honor of being called Mother Hero. The benefits to families with children were considerable. The networks of maternity homes, children’s and preschools, children’s hospitals, nursery and kindergartens, schools, pioneer camps, children’s homes, sports and other sections, and children’s theaters funded by the budget were indeed centers of child - care and youth work. Any child in any family was able to grow healthy and happy, get secondary and higher education, work and housing. As a result, our country has become one of the most educated and powerful in the world. The practical achievement of working with children was envied in other developed countries. The labored care system for children was virtually destroyed after the occupation of power by capitalizers in our country. Their slogan was "Happy Birthday to Children of bourgeoisie." Because of the high unemployment rate, the poverty of the vast majority of workers, the loss of their ability to feed, clothe, and kiss their families, the birth rate of children has fallen sharply, and is now twice the death rate. Compared to 1990, the population in Ukraine decreased by 4 million. Homelessness, child trafficking, the impossibility of many of them to attend school, child mortality has become common in our country today. In just nine months of this year, 25,000 youths committed crimes. The network of preschool facilities, schools, and rest camps is constantly being cut short. Funding for work with children is no longer a priority in public policy. The remaining benefits to families with their children are gradually becoming secondary, and payments are made in line with the residual principle. To date, for hundreds of thousands of low - income families, the only source of assistance is the children provided by the Ukrainian Law on State Aid for Families with Children. However, despite the security of this article in Ukraine’s State Budget, its funding is being made with considerable backlog. All over Ukraine, debt exceeded three months and as of October 1, 2002, it amounted to 107.4 million dollars, more against the same period last year at 11.4 times or 98 million dollars. Children from low - income families are even deprived of the possibility of regular use of milk and bread. The faction of Ukraine’s Company in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is firm against the abuse of the State over children and their parents. Enough to save on children when bourgeoisie fats endlessly. We require the President and the Government of Ukraine to fund the debt of government assistance to families with children in an urgent and comprehensive manner. Consider the continued funding of expenditure for this purpose as a top priority in the budget structure. By analogy with the payment of pensions, the monthly payment of state aid to families with children is accurate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u8	Alexander Alexander Moroz of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u9	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has consistently advocated the interests of education, science, students, and students. Socialist MPs have developed a series of laws that protect Ukrainian school. In the following year's draft budget, we made proposals for priority financing of these areas, identified sources of expenditure. However, the government's draft budget completely ignores article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Education Act, the Higher School Act, the Occupational Education Act. In Ukraine, the interests of workers in the field are ignored. The average wage rate of a child worker is about 196 dollars, and the scientific and pedagogical rate is 391 bracelets per month, which is almost three times less than the guaranteed by law. The Ukrainian teacher has not been able to support the family for many years since the current Kuchma regime failed to recover, even to subscribe to the newspaper or magazine, to obtain methodical and artistic literature without the impossibility of improving pedagogical skills. In recent years, the housing problem of teachers has increased dramatically. Thousands do not have housing; only 8 percent of rural educators pay for utilities. A particularly critical situation has been the preparation of educational institutions for the winter of this year. In every third school, children freeze to death, and the students in the schools forget about the heat and the food at all. More than 100 factories are now open from the current. The government, the Minosvets, local administrations have made up the Constitution’s mandate to ensure the right of young people and girls to education. Despite all the empty statements made by the President and senior officials about care, education and science, contrary to articles 53 and 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the draft budget proposes to be stopped again. The articles on education and science on social security for workers in these fields, students, students, in particular raising the average wage to industrial level are 552 bracelets, I want to say this number; housing and housing, student income. We view this as a abuse of a teacher, a young generation, and a bold challenge to humanism and morality, and we will vote on it. The Socialist faction strongly condemns this position of government and the factions that support this draft budget. We require an additional allocation of at least 1.8 billion dollars for science and education, an increase of at least one-and-a-half wages for education, an increase in the cost of nutrition for children, especially orphans, 100 per cent of the provision of teaching facilities, teachers with utilities, textbooks, computers, and technical training. To do that there are all the possibilities, you just have to get half the economy out of the shadows of Ukraine. We're talking about the awareness of teachers, scientists, students, all of Ukraine's citizens, without changing the system of power, removing the oligaric-clan regime from the power of positive changes in the state will not happen. Without fighting for these changes, you, teachers, as well as doctors, geologists, and other budgeters, will go to care for various government agencies, but no one will respond to your needs. We call on all factions of Parliament to support our position. Save education, save the state, save our future, save our children, save our nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u10	Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, please. Prepare Papieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, before we announce our faction's statement, I would like to address the teachers gathered at the Supreme Council. Dear friends! You're told that there's no money in the state to pay your salary. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko proposes a 50 - percent reduction in the funding of the Presidential Administration, local administrations, the State Tax Administration, and the power structures. This resource is worth about 2 billion dollars, and it is at the expense of this money that teachers, doctors, orphans, and other disadvantaged groups of our population can finance. Now I'm asking you to listen to our faction's statement. Today, in our eyes and because of the actual inactivity of the Supreme Council, Ukraine is rapidly becoming a destitute, lawless, despotic, non-totalitarian state. And that's why I want to draw your attention not to the culinary division of portfolios and service offices in the new Cabinet of Ministers, not to the distribution of government phones and Mercedes, but to the fate of many and many innocent people who have suffered and suffered abuse just because they dared to challenge the criminal system built by Kuchma and its environment. For almost two years now, the real Ukrainian patriots have been illegally and unjustifiably supported by the gratas, who marched out on the street and square on March 9, 2001 to express their civic position, and they are now being beaten and killed behind the walls of a bush prison system. For the truth, the power of the will and the honor of these people today are humiliated and abused, and their judgment has been transformed into farce and moral torture. In the meantime, authorities are making new and new repressions against the forces of democratic opposition, their relatives, loved ones, and friends. For playing for no reason or reason, new and new political prisoners are being thrown away. In prisons there are innocent people, including the elderly, who need urgent treatment and urgent medical care. The Kuchma regime has taken the path of the physical destruction of the dissidents and has applied to the opposition the same methods and tortures as the most disgraceful despots ever condemned by the world’s society. An indication of its insolence and subjugation of power was the debate over Ukraine’s independent mining industry, the only fault of which was its failure to rob miners and their families, its failure to deal with corruption and official banditry in the coal sector. If the regime used to pretend to adhere to the legislation by concealing its provocations for the casualistic rule of law, today it is bringing reprisals to a pure absolute. After all, Ukraine’s independent mining industry is incriminating nothing but the support of opposition forces in the parliamentary elections. For the Kuchma regime, this is already an irreparable crime that deserves the harshest punishment. That's why today, with the permission to say, law enforcement agencies with people with waves and gas bars like racketeering bandits are hacking into labor groups, removing documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u12	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u13	He's doing sweeps and raids. A purposeful work is being done to destroy and eliminate the only incorruptible mining trade. I beg you a little more, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Since September 16, 2002, the Supreme Council has made no decision to end the political crisis in the country. Perhaps it is because some MPs have lost their minds by hundreds of thousands of dollars generously offered for betraying voters for betraying their own people and moving to the so - called parliamentary majority. Dear colleagues, it is known that it is those who have betrayed, betrayed, and betrayed once more by bribery and bribery in the walls of the deputy corps. In particular, our deputies are valued at $300,000, and the Plutinski deputy has asked for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u14	I have to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u15	I'm sorry I just betrayed the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u16	Unplug the microphone. Regulation. Well, please, it's exhausted all the time. Dear colleagues, our Turkish colleague insists for 30 seconds. How are you? 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Regrettably, those politicians who, in civilized countries, no decent people would give in, in Parliament, constitute the restraints of the parliamentary majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko's bloc demands: ( 1) To immediately release all political prisoners, to stop the abuse and abuse of innocent people; (2) To put an end to disputes and reprisals against independent trade unions that protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens and support the opposition; (3) create an investigation commission to investigate the attempted bribery of Ukrainian national deputies; and open criminal proceedings to the Attorney-General for corruption within the walls of the Supreme Council. Vote immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u18	Thank you. Time's up. Unplug the microphone. All of it. People's MP Papiew, please. Mikhailo Papiev from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u19	Mikhailo Papiev, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question raised today by the MP's new faction of the SDPU. This issue has been of concern to the State since the proclamation of Ukraine’s independence, without exaggeration. Sadly, though, no tangible success has been achieved despite these efforts. This is about small and medium-sized business in Ukraine. To the profound belief of the faction of SDPI(o) the full promotion of this business sphere, the creation of an adequate regulatory and legal framework for its existence for the higher legislative body of Ukraine should be a matter of honour, as further development of the statehood, further development of the economy of Ukraine, and therefore the fate of each Ukrainian is directly dependent on the development of the enterprise. The Supreme Council of Ukraine finally has to realize that today, in terms of small and medium-sized business, there is only one formula -- abobobo, no other formula. The position of the faction of the SDPI(s) in terms of business is known. We see small and medium-sized businesses as a prerequisite for increasing employment and structural reconstruction of the economy. The situation of Ukrainian entrepreneurship is not only the objective but also the criteria for economic reform. Small and medium-sized business development in Ukraine for Social Democrats has always been a priority for activities. We have advocated and will defend the right of small businesses to exist and to develop, because we think that this area is mobile enough and dynamic enough to adapt quickly to economic change and allow for a positive solution to socio-economic problems. In a series of recent presidential staff decrees, the issue of small and medium-sized business did not play the final role. But only by means of human resources will the problem not be changed. Clearly, a clear and transparent legal basis for small businesses is needed, and this is already the task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The number of questions that need a legal solution to the bereaved. In the absence of time, I will be speaking only to those who are most likely to meet in the factions. First, it is necessary to adopt a law on the sole method of testing business subjects, which provides for the responsibility of controlling authorities for improperly caused business activities, to adopt the Tax Code, which provides for tax and congregation exemptions within a year of registration, to guarantee the relief of rental conditions and to resist an increase in rent payments, to provide for a simplified system of registration of business entities. In addition, it is fair for entrepreneurs to make changes that require laws such as "On the application of accountancy registers in the field of trade, public nutrition and services", "On local self-government" and more. The faction of SDPU(o) goes to Parliament with a proposal: to recognize as a priority work on bills aimed at improving the status of the enterprise. We are convinced that only in this way can the Supreme Council of Ukraine prove that it is working for the future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u20	National Deputy Kosinov of the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, please. Get ready for Lithuania's Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u21	Kosinov, faction of the Ukrainian People's Democratic Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm calling you on the matter of housing and utility. On April 1, 2002, she took effect from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's Retirement Regulation, which increased pensions by 10 percent under the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. However, the decision not only brought about a long - awaited increase in pensions but also contributed to further problems. Yes, in accordance with paragraph 1 of the Cabinet of Ministers regulation on the new size of housing and utility costs, the acquisition of compressed gas, solid and liquid. In the case of a housing grant issued on July 27, 1998, citizens in housing pay 20 percent of the average monthly total income. If there are only pensioners and other disabled citizens in the living room, or if there are underage children, first and second group disabled, the salary for residential services is 15 percent of their average monthly total income. Thus, when counting the mandatory percentage of a family that is made up of pensioners, 15 percent of the income, or pension, is calculated, including if the income per resident does not exceed the under-remuneration limit of 1 January 2002, which is $136,80. In the same cases where the pension exceeds that amount, the compulsory payment is 20 percent. Since April 1, 2002, when the Cabinet of Ministers issued a 10 - percent increase in pensions, pensioners have had additional difficulties. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the one hand, improved pensions and, on the other hand, reduced subsidies for residential services. In particular, many pensioners ’ pensions amounted to more than $136 (80) dollars, and their compulsory payment amounted to 20 percent. As a result of an increase in pensions, such as an additional 10 dollars, individual pensioners have been forced to pay an additional 14 or more dollars for residential services. So the material position of the individuals in question really didn't improve, but it got worse at the expense of the extra pay for residential services. The other one. In accordance with legislation, a paid salary is charged for the provision of subsidies for the mandatory payment of residential services. Yet, quite often in our businesses, institutions and organizations, wages have not been paid for both economic and organizational reasons. As a result, the worker does not have the basic income: salary, even though it is a company. This, in turn, creates additional conflict situations and increases social tension between the person, the grant authorities, and businesses. In view of the above, the faction of the People's Democratic Party advocates making further changes to legislation on housing subsidies. First. Set compulsory payments for residential services for non-working retirees 15 percent regardless of the size of the low-security threshold. The other one. In order to allocate subsidies for the compulsory payment of housing and utilities payments, the sum of the paid salary is not paid. And the third. In view of the fact that many teachers are at the parliament and the request of these teachers is to create a special housing fund for pensioners, the People’s Democratic Party faction supports this proposal and advocates a quicker consideration of the issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u22	Thank you. From the "Industry and Entrepreneurs" faction and "Trudova Ukraine" is the national deputy, Vadim Litwin. Please. You don't? Please, then, John Grigorovitch Kirilenko of the Agar Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u23	John Kirilenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! First of all, I will point out that the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party has supported and will maintain a decent level of education, a decent position in the society of a teacher, especially a rural teacher, because the village is and will be the cradle and source of our spirituality. Time travels tremendously fast. Many of us are still in the March race, and the calendar is the end of November. A few weeks later, New 2003 What is he preparing for us next year? The Agrarian Party faction draws the attention of national MPs, government officials, local authorities, all political forces to such defining things. First. Ukraine joins the world trade organization. As a political actor once said in the past, "Democracy is evil, but unfortunately, nothing better has been invented by the world." Something similar can be said for the WTO. I do not know any country that would be fully satisfied with its membership in this respected organization. But the vast majority of countries in the world -- almost 150 of them -- are right there. They live, work, and trade according to the single, clear, and transparent rules of the game. Of course, we will be there among civilized people. Thus, legislation is being adapted rapidly today, agreements are being ratified, standards are being set, and so fewer customs and tax barriers, restrictions are being removed, goods, resources and services are being liberalized, and borders are being opened. And so the competition in our consumer market is getting stronger. This will certainly be the case in the countryside. The other one. A year later, our closest Western neighbors will be members of the European Union. I'll remind you, both Poland and Slovakia and Hungary, first of all, agrarian countries that already have too much food today. And with the arrival of new Eurostandards, modern technologies, and especially hundreds of millions of euros, you can only imagine where the flows of cheap production of their agricultural sector are going. Third. The last year of 2003 was the legislatively regulated state support for the agricultural sector. Since January 1, 2004, fixed taxes have been cancelled, there will be no special VAT management regime, and other preferences will disappear, as appropriate legal acts will be completed. It is clear to all of us that in a year the coming village will soon be on its feet and will not be firmly established. And he won't be a worthy competitor. And in recent years, despite all the troubles, our fellow countrymen have become accustomed to quality and delicious foods that have already been over 90 percent of our food supply. It's a high level of food security and it's the village's credit. So over the next six months, we have to do everything we can to support and protect the country's agriculture and our village right at the legislative level, at affordable prices, at affordable loans, at favourable taxes. In this regard, the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine initiates the creation of a working group led by Catherine Vaschuk of all the factions that are hurting for the village, government, scientists, manufacturers, farmers, and agrarian businesses, which would immediately work on specific normative acts. We'll be offering the right draft of the ruling in the near future. We hope for understanding and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u24	Thank you. From the faction of Democratic Initiatives. Please. From where? Turn on the microphone, please, People's Deputy Mr. Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! My speech is related to the fact that agricultural workers celebrated a holiday two days ago. The day of an agricultural worker. In this regard, agricultural production now accounts for about a third of our nation’s GDP. The country that Ukraine is running is worth about 300 trillion U.S. dollars or 38 years of our country’s budget. For good reason, in the Paris Chamber of Peace and Weights, the Ukrainian Black Land is preserved as a reference to the soil. But the problems of the village, which is today, are not in expensive diesel, not in low prices for agro-industry products or even in the unwillingness of bankers to lend a village. The logical question is, why do Ukrainian peasants earn 60 dollars a year and half of agricultural enterprises are profitable? The main cause of the problem in agriculture is its inefficient management. The main way to solve agricultural problems is not to raise prices, but to reduce the cost of production. This is possible only through the introduction of new technologies and the improvement of the efficiency of work. The state cannot appoint an effective owner in each individual case, but there are a number of aspects of agribusiness where the state can and should help farmers. Today, in agricultural enterprises, the proportion of skilled agricultural specialists is less than 9 percent of the total number of employees. There is an urgent need to increase the level of knowledge and information from technological issues and marketing of agricultural products. National incentives are needed for the development of infrastructure, service services, and special banking facilities that provide mortgage credit to the village’s seasonal and long-term credit services. On the subject of machine building, the State itself has done everything possible to ensure that the Ukrainian combine exists only deure. In 11 years of independence, only 680 have been released, but the accent should be properly placed. The government is stressing the issue of financing agricultural production, although the problem has long been in another area. The village needs about 10,000 new cars a year, and only one and a half thousand are purchased. Ukraine has never created a suitable market, nor has a wealthy farmer, who is ready to buy cars or to get them by gliding. And nobody's paying attention to that. The majority of agricultural products that allow long - term storage are sold in Ukraine at world prices, while the practice of lowering purchase prices for products, particularly milk and meat, is common. In such cases, State intervention is economically justified, particularly in the form of setting minimum purchase prices. The Democratic Initiatives MP actively supports the proposal now made by National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, and insists on the revitalization of the work of the Supreme Council on agrarian legislation. In order to implement the Earth Code, the Supreme Council needs to adopt more than 30 laws, 12 of which are super-chains, including the delimitation of state and municipal property rights, the land market, the State Mortgage Bank, the characteristics of the creation of mortgages in Ukraine, the assessment of land, the land structure, and so on. There is also a need to address the issue of the government’s application of minimum purchase prices to individual types of agricultural products. The formation of an effective system of a national agrarian producer, compatible with the principles of WTO and the EU, may be achieved by virtue of the tax credit component of commercial banks, in proportion to the proportion of the credit they allocate to credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u26	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u27	It's a power-generating plant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u28	From the faction of "Ukraine" is Ivan Fedorovich Kuras. Please, Ivan Fedorovich. Prepare from the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Urban Ukraine" if it's in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u29	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Deputy faction expresses its solidarity with those statements that have already been made here, and also expresses its deep concern about the situation that has arisen with regard to financing health, education and science in the following year. I think we're all concerned about the situation, and we're determined not to allow today's most important financial document of our nation, which we're already discussing, which we're going to discuss, to become a bargaining coin in political accounts and timetables here in our Parliament of the State. We have no right to do that. Millions of Ukrainian families today feel the full burden of economic and social hardship on their shoulders. But most of all today, and everyone agrees, is concerned about the state of education, medicine, and health care. And our deep belief is that if we were to achieve noticeable real shifts here for the better, it would significantly defuse the level of social tension in society. The "Regions of Ukraine" faction advocates the need to increase spending on health, education, science and social issues in the State Budget project for the next year. If this year’s funding for these priority social needs is not in line with modern requirements, Ukraine is indeed risking a state that does not meet the standards of a modern democratic and especially intellectual society. Our entire faction, which is 37 people, will stand for social and humanitarian priorities, from book publishing to school institutions, higher, secondary special education and completing science and its highest headquarters, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u30	Thank you. From the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs, the "Trug Ukraine" is who? Will they be performing? None. Honorable colleagues who wish to speak out of factions took advantage of their right. Regarding the suggestions, the comments made in your presentations will be prepared with appropriate instructions to the authorities. Let us turn to today’s schedule of meetings. You are being reviewed by the draft law on State support for the bookstore in Ukraine. The question is important, mature, and painful. Therefore, it is suggested that we discuss it promptly so that we can make a decision on Thursday. For a report of 5 minutes, to answer a question to a report of 5 minutes, to a co-report of 5 minutes, and to answer a question to a co-rapporteur of 5 minutes, it is suggested. And discussion, making a decision in 10 minutes. Is there no objection? Let us turn to this question. Reporter to the State Committee on Information Policy, Television and Radio Broadcasting in Ukraine, Zhi Ivan Sergiyyovich. Dear colleagues, I was approached by the national MPs that some of the questions were not voted on. By their insistence, if you do not object, we will review them tomorrow and will obviously make the right decisions. On your orders, I will meet with representatives of the education staff who are in the square in front of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u31	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Bookstore in Ukraine, submitted to the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers. This law, this bill defines the basic principles of State support for the bookstore in Ukraine and is aimed at overcoming the crisis in the country's history and creating conditions conducive to its development. You know that the book, because of its high self - worth, our Ukrainian book has become inaccessible to the vast majority of the population of our nation. Each year, its circulation is declining, and unfortunately, the publication is becoming more and more limited. In 2001, for example, more than 10,000 books were released, but a total of only 50 million copies were produced, and according to UNESCO’s goal, one of the indicators that identifies the social needs of books is the number of books and brochures that we have for one million people. In developed countries, it's over a thousand, in Poland it's about 600, in Russia it's over 450, in Ukraine it's only 220. Well, we publish books on one citizen less than one, while our neighbors, let's say, the Russians are 3.5, Belarus is 5.5, Poles 9.5, Germany is 12 books. In view of the fact that Ukraine’s publishing base provided 40 percent of the printing output of the former Soviet Union, this demonstrates its enormous potential. Thus, we can restore the book’s record in full, providing the spiritual function of the book. Draft Ukrainian Law on State Support. aimed exclusively at supporting the Ukrainian book. It foresees a complete tax exemption for the added cost and profit of each stage of the book production: from buying the necessary raw materials, preparing for publication and publishing, producing and distributing book products -- for a 5-year term. The law is clearly defined by the term: from 1 January 2003 to 1 January 2008. In the area of customs regulation, the law provides for exemption for the same period from the payment of duties and VAT for goods not produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine for. book products. World practice shows that such a tax promotion regime is a sufficient prerequisite for the exit of the bookstore from the crisis, providing the necessary opportunities to increase the competitiveness of the Ukrainian book. The bill sets out the principles of public policy in publishing, such as those based on the principles of freedom of accounting and opposition to industries, ideas, markets or any other monopolization, aimed at the full satisfaction of the spiritual, educational and cultural needs of society. The structure of the project consists of two chapters, six articles defining terms and concepts, the scope of the law, its purpose and the introduction of new legal rules on the characteristics of taxing entities in the bookstore and amending the basic tax laws, in fact the Single Customs Tariff Act, the Added Cost Tax Act and the Income Tax Act. If we change the rules of the game, we're actually going to create tax conditions, it's equivalent to investing in a bookstore, a bookstore. And we are convinced that this will change the situation with regard to the restocking of the polygraph enterprises of this system, as the Russians did. We predict that this law is not going to be a loss to the economy, even though it's essentially calculated that the amount of under-receiving, let's say, to the budget is about 100 million dollars per year. But just because books from Russia, Belarus, are being imported into our territory, we're losing over 500 million -- that's the minimum relative to the book. So, so if we leave these costs here, that means that the actual budget won't lose, or we'll add, predict 20,000 specialists to the workplace. We're going to increase by pay, by counting all the social, about 57 million dollars. And the total additional revenue is going to be 77 million dollars per year. That's how we don't lose. I'd just like to say, in the absence of time, that we're actually predicting an increase of 3 to 3.5 times the circulation and by the name of the books about the same number. I would like to thank the Supreme Council, the Committees of the Supreme Council, who have been very objective and considerate in considering this bill, and the national deputies of Ukraine who have submitted their drafts. I think we have a common vision. I'd like to ask you to support this project as one that has already undergone very serious reconciliations. And between the first and second readings, the projects that the national MPs make, their best proposals, I think, could be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u32	Thank you, Ivan Sergiyovich. Please sign up for your questions, fellow believers. It takes five minutes. Light up, please. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u33	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear John Sergiyovich, the question to you is such an order. Bills have been introduced several times in the session hall to support our country’s bookstore. And the fact that such a bill is being initiated today is, of course, vital. And I think we'll support it. At the same time, I have a question for you. Please tell me, have you analyzed the bills that have been submitted by the deputies today, and can they supplement this bill? And the second question. Did you make real calculations that even with the benefits you're offering, real returns through the tax system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u34	Thank you for your support. Of course, we analyzed the projects. We communicated with the law - enforcement bodies, the national MPs, Paul Mikhailovich Movcan, the national MP of the King, and with the Turkish MP, we introduced the bill. I'm going to say that some of the projects are especially, let's say, the King's project, it's even more formal, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out there, it's out, it's out, it's out. But really, we were still struggling to keep the least of the losses in the budget from applying this kind of tax regime. What's more, I'll tell you, at every point of import of goods, of goods, of tax reduction is a special working group that I run, the government has already created, we're accompanying it, it's going to be a special decision -- the decision or the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, that's all under control, it's not going to be the business interests of a larger scale. So I'm convinced that the loss actually we predict, our experts already in the first year of operation of this law, is not going to be budgeted. Because it's operating right now in a tax mode that works until January 1st, it's not allowed to lose, it's real that there was a full collection of taxes that have now been introduced, absolutely, even by 100,000 more. So it is here. I am convinced that this bill is needed from every point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u35	Nosenko Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u36	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Dear Ivan Sergiyovich! Please tell me, who specifically is responsible for the bookstore’s plight? Is it possible that a lack of a legislative framework is not being implemented by the executive authorities? What is the solution? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u37	Thank you for the question and the pain. I think it's everyone's fault, and together it's a big wine. Because if the legislation were okay, we wouldn't be standing on this platform today, and we wouldn't be proposing such a project, and if we were to implement, let's say, the program as it needs to be, the problem would be smaller. But the bigger problem is the legislative problem. Russia followed the path of establishing a special regime for five years. Today, Russia has so broken down that their polygraph publishing industry has a fifth place in profit after gas, oil. It's very convenient. We've been driven away. The book is valued at the level of pitchforks and crevices and is viewed as a material product rather than a specific spiritual function of the book. So it's probably everybody's fault. I think we're going to take it off now by adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u38	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u39	regulate and ensure the priority of the book.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Ivan Sergiyovich, I will support Bill 2205. I would like to remind you that, for example, publishing with an open stock company called Motorsic with minimal financial assistance, the company has acquired about 50 appointments of textbooks, teaching manuals, notes and the like. [[Zaporozhye]] That's why I want to ask you. Would you please tell me whether your bill provides for changes and additions to the laws in force today? And one more thing. What is your position on the need for government support for those publications that are currently operating in industrial enterprises?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u41	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Answer. This project also introduces changes to three basic laws, although it is written as a formal project, as a separate law, but to the laws on the single customs tariff, on the value added tax, on the corporate income tax in this part it does. This is enshrined in the law itself and is required by Ukrainian legislation. With regard to publishing entities, this applies without limitation to all, but only in this book - related law. It separates itself into accounting, everything else. If your publication is a bookstore, it has the right to publish, it will be extended to this part of your production of polygraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u42	Thank you, Ivan Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Paul Mikhailovich Mukchana. Please, Paul Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u43	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Deputies! The general trends in the Ukrainian history are getting more and more grim. Ukraine’s book - market production accounts for only a few percent. Every year in Ukraine, there are only 8-9 million copies of the books of domestic production coming into the book market. For comparison. In the Russian Federation -- 400 million, in Poland -- 200 million copies. The cost of the Ukrainian book is several times higher than the Russian analogy that puts our accountants in unequal conditions and makes their production uncompetitive. The difficult situation in the book - making industry is confirmed by the lowest ratio of books released to the country’s population. In Ukraine, there's about one book a year for one person, while in Russia -- to the fifth, in Belarus above -- to the seventh, in Western European countries -- 12-17. The situation with the children’s book is awe - inspiring. Yes, in 2000, only 38 titles were issued for preschool children with a total circulation of 331 thousand and 69 for schoolchildren with 309,000 copies. And every year, things don't get better, they get worse. Yes, in 7 months this year, Polygraphbook released 3,000 million dollars of produce, of which only 921 thousand are included in textbooks, which is less than twice as much than in previous years. In neighboring states, bookkeeping has been exempt from taxation for many years, which has enabled the industry to become profitable and competitive. If we are talking about Ukraine's entry into the EU, we should know that in the European Union countries, the added tax book does not exceed 5 percent. In the Russian Federation, however, printed products have been exempt from taxation for the past seven years. The problems that exist in the development of the national polygraph complex are too serious. Polygraph companies work on equipment that is 80 percent wearable and that is over 15 years old. The lack of circulation costs does not allow the publishers themselves to resupply the material and technical base. The extremely worn - out equipment is the cause of inconvenient production, a decrease in production volume. The State support mechanism for the bookkeeping is far from perfect, and the funds allocated for these purposes are very modest. Yes, Ukraine’s Ministry of Culture and Art’s budget for bookkeeping does not exceed 0.2 percent. Such a situation in the book account is unacceptable. Comprehensive protectionist measures are needed to regulate and protect the domestic market. It is only possible to create a competitive environment in the internal book market by cancelling taxes on domestic book products, so for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review and draft a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation proposing to amend four Ukrainian laws: "On value added tax", "On corporate income taxation", "On patenting some types of business activity" and "On publishing business" which regulate publishing activity. The bill proposes the introduction of a mechanism of State support for the domestic producer of books and other polygraph products issued in the national language. In particular, it is possible to exempt from taxation the profits of domestic publications, publishing organizations, and polygraph enterprises, which produce at least 70 percent of the volume of public - language products; to allow the activity of business entities to carry out their own book products, which produce at least 70 percent of the volume of public - language products without obtaining a commercial patent. And the last. To exempt from tax the added cost of editing and polygraphing of domestic publishing organizations and polygraph companies from the production of book products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u44	Thank you, Paul Mikhailovich. Please sign up for questions. Turn the system on. Please explain. Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich. Next Joulinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear Paul Mikhailovich will certainly contribute to the improvement of the material and technical base of publishing and polygraph companies, the increase in the production of book publishing in the national language, the decrease in prices on domestic production books and the increase in the overall competitiveness of the Ukrainian publishing business. This, in turn, will have a positive effect on raising the spiritual and cultural, educational level of Ukrainian citizens. So this bill needs to be supported, in my opinion. At the same time, I have once spoken and said that according to part three of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the laws of Ukraine that affect the formation of the income or expenditure portion of the budgets should be officially published by 15 August of the year preceding the plan. So, I have this question: is this bill, and I think it will find support in the hall when it enters into force, as of 1 January 2003, or is it, as provided for in the Budget Code, as of 1 January 2004? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u46	Thank you very much for these precise things, because we were in a hurry for this bill to take place while the current budget was being formed, that is, next year, so that we can now make all the adjustments needed for the budget process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u47	Giulinsky Mikola Grigorovich The next Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u48	Yes, Giulinsky Mikola Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Paul Mikhailovich, I know that it has been more than a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u49	Don't hear me, please. Mikola Grigorovich, don't hear! Louder. Talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u50	For more than a year, we have been fighting for this law to be passed. I know that these efforts were unfortunately not successful. That's because the main accent wasn't made. This law should first and foremost be considered economically and legally. And to talk about how we give priority to the country's bookmaker, what we're trying to do first of all to ensure that the national bookstore is based on the priorities it deserves in every country of its own, so to speak, polygraphic and publishing activities. So I also wanted to say this: Paul Mikhailovich, here we are adopting this law, I think it's supported. But it's important today to make calculations to this budget with the very arguments that give us reason to say that since 2003, we're going to see a change right at the economic angle of the situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u51	Thank you, Milo Grigorovich. You know, similar calculations were made by the Committee on Information back in the days of John Fedorovich Drach, and now John Sergiyovich, they were made in conjunction with Mineconomy. It's the Committee on Budgets. If we can make all of these adjustments, the result will be next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u52	Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u53	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Please pass the word to Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u54	Turn on Terrena's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u55	Thank you. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Paul Mikhailovich, the situation that has arisen with the book of Ukraine, is a situation that lies in the plane of public policy, which is undoubtedly unnational and where spirituality is placed somewhere on the sidelines of politics, you know that. But the question first, you said, how much per citizen of Ukraine is one book produced, but how much is produced in Ukrainian? Obviously this is going to be an even smaller percentage. So it's in Ukrainian language that's the first question. And the second question is, what do you have to do, whether your law provides for any amendments to that terrible smuggling of Russian literature that is on all crossings that are not taxed in all stores, because according to my data, about $100 million is being exported at the expense of money. From Ukraine to Russia because of the smuggling of books that were released in Belarus or Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Victor. In the absence of time, I did not quote one important thing in my report. Every year, Russian publishers continue to earn up to 250 million dollars in the Ukrainian market, both legally and illegally. So multiply by 5-- and you're going to have a colossal sum. While the Ukrainian book was being subsidized, up to 15 million were involved. These are not relative things. The amount of income and that, again, of the budget allocated to save the book. We've been burying her for 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u57	Thank you, Paul Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. King Oleg Anatoliovich is given the word for the account. In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, dear friends. I might take less time than I've been given. The previous rapporteurs spoke of the usefulness of the bill. I'll talk about some nuances: how my bill differs from others. First, I suggested that the codes of goods that would be introduced with VAT relief should already be written down in the bill and not left to the Cabinet of Ministers. In principle, there was agreement and agreement with the Financial Banking Committee that in any case we would necessarily prescribe specific codes of goods in the Cabin version, even if the Cabminov version were to pass. And number two. The point is, how do you isolate publishing activities from the overall activities of the enterprise? Take, for example, when a metal mill is printed in the territory of a steel mill that prints the Director's memories of past merits. Let's say it takes 0.5 percent of the factory's turnover. This is the share of publishing activities, how to allocate VAT, how to provide a profit tax. And I propose that, in order to eliminate small publishers and reduce the benefits for those who print books, they should propose such a criterion that enterprises with a 50 per cent share of the printing should benefit from these benefits. At the same time, it will benefit publishers who are mainly engaged in bookmaking. They will not have to deal with a sufficiently complex ledger. And as an economist, I'm going to say that it's hard enough to isolate some kind of activity from all of the activities of the enterprise. If an enterprise produces books, it produces a little bit of tetrades, it produces a little bit of sliced paper and so on and so forth. But at the same time, I think if the company deals with books for 50 percent, let it fall under that tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Lighten up. The word is given to Taran. Is Victor Vasilovich Taran there?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u60	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear reporter, on the one hand, you don't mind if I tell you what you're saying about the Ukrainian book, but you speak Russian. It's probably something that doesn't respond. But in principle, how you defend the interests of the Ukrainian book can be forgiven. But here's the thing. Well, I listened very carefully to your speech and imagined an enterprise. This business began to produce books, including books. And it's growing its production, it's growing, it's producing more books, but it's never going to release just one book if it's pushed so hard on it by this tax press. I understand all these economic difficulties. But maybe, if it's already starting to release books, then to encourage it, it's also going to cut taxes on books. That is, if you can deny in your very concept the name, such as cultivation, the prospects of this publication, or an enterprise. How would you start publishing books? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u61	That's exactly what you're talking about. If the enterprise is small, but nevertheless has more than 50 per cent of its books, it should be eligible for this benefit. I'll give you an example of agriculture. Now, about that kind of scheme works for agriculture, if you know. It is this scheme that has now enabled investment and agriculture to develop. Because imagine this small enterprise that's starting to produce books, and it's facing the fact that it's going to have to allocate this traffic, allocate traffic and keep a separate account of it. How do you get the cost of publishing books, how? How much should be spent on books and how much should be spent on other activities is very difficult. This will necessarily be due to the fact that, firstly, abuses, secondly, punishments, fines, checks and so on will not be accepted, acts of tax inspection and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u62	Not a word from Vladimir Pavlovich. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u63	Thank you very much, and I ask you to give the word to Dry Yaroslav. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u64	Turn on Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u65	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU, town of Zaporozhye. Oleg Anatolyevich, first. What you're speaking in Russian, and your bill of support for the Ukrainian printing is only an honor and a thank you, and I'm holding your hand, good boy, and right. This indicates only one fact that Ukraine is a multinational State and nothing else. Now the question is concrete in essence. Please state your attitude to Bill 2205. Is it appropriate or do you think it's possible to get into this bill as an ingredient, because we have to adopt one law. I'm concerned that we don't lose the bill at all. And the second question. Do you have any confidence that this bill, 2205, will allow us to modernize the bookseller's case? Not only to fill up with funds, but also with new technology and technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u66	Answer the clutch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u67	Thank you for your support. With regard to the question of Kabminov law. I believe that, in any case, it is necessary to adopt at least one bill, which is mine, a Cabminovian or a respected MP, because, in principle, all laws are conceptually good. Conceptually, laws are virtually indistinguishable. On second reading, we will have the opportunity to finalize any bill before it reaches the level to which we want it. That's probably it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u68	One last question. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u69	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter Oleg Anatolyovich! I welcome the fact that you have joined the glorious cohort of those who defend. I'm going to issue a case and I'm going to vote for it, and I'm going to call for it. That's the only question I have. Is it possible right now that this is a question for all authors: to the government, to the Chiji, to you and to the Silent Man -- is it possible now on the first reading to write that the authors of the law are the Kabmin, the Silent and the Kings? And take it now to urgently adopt it in the first and then in the second and finally before the adoption of the budget law? This is very important from a legal point of view. You understand why. On account of these. Which allows us to have the Budget Code. To get out of here. And you're saying it's how to get a divorce report. But reporting may be cheaper for Ukraine to enter a single line in the reports, but to encourage the purchase of new equipment and not to print in either the Czech Republic or Russia or in other countries, but to print in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u70	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u71	With regard to the first question, I do not object to being co-sponsored and to joining in with a respected silent person or Kabmin. Moreover, I was present in the Kabmin working group, so it can be said that I am also a co-author of the Kabmin version. And my bill is the finalization of the Cabin version. Why have I not withdrawn my bill of review so far, although I understand that the three bills reduce the chances of one bill? The fact is, I fear that when considering the Kabminov bill, there will be a lack of the Kabminov version and that is why it will not pass. Although I understand and agree with Kabmin, we have agreed with the committee that we will eliminate them on second reading. If we agree definitively, in principle, I do not object to a single bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u72	Thank you, time is up. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich, will report. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u73	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, Dear Colleagues, I would like to stress on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Banking. First. The Committee on Finance and Banking is against all kinds of benefits. This is the first position. Second position. We have examined carefully and the price of this bill is about 60 million dollars a year. But given that there are some budgetary problems, the Committee on Finance and Banking, at its meeting on October 24, this year, reviewed draft laws of Ukraine on State support for the bookstore in Ukraine under numbers 2205, 2205-2, 2205-1, 2114. These bills are proposed with the aim of overcoming the crisis in the country’s history and creating favourable conditions for its development to introduce special tax conditions for domestic subjects in the book - making business. Ukraine’s draft law on State support for the bookstore in Ukraine, number 2205, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has been developed with the support of bookkeepers and takes into account the experience of aiding entities in publishing activities in other countries. In view of the foregoing, the Ukrainian National Deputies consider it appropriate to accept as a basis the first reading of Bill 2205, and the constructive proposals of Bills 2205-1, 2205-2 and 2114 to take into account in his preparation for the second reading. At the same time, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, pointed out the need for the necessary, I stress the mandatory inclusion in the text of the bill in preparing it for the second reading of a list of goods, items to be imported into Ukraine’s customs territory in the tax regime for bookkeepers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u74	Thank you for the hard report. Question, Sergey Vasilovich. Any questions? Please sign up. Lighten up. Lukjanenko Levko Grigorović, next to Semenyuk
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u75	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction Dear reporter, please tell me, I'd like to clarify a little bit, this product that's going to be imported, let's say, from abroad on these terms, it's related to Ukraine's polygraph base. If so, why? Is there a machine in Ukraine that deals with publishing, or is it another product? I will be grateful for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u76	Dear Oleg Grigorovich, I tell you that there is a certain list of what is to be imported in this bill. This refers to the exemption from the payment of import duties for polygraph materials that are not produced in Ukraine and imported into Ukrainian customs territory for use in publishing activities. Exemption from tax on the added cost of import operations into the customs territory of the goods identified by the bill and operations for the execution of works and the provision of services in publishing activities. But I think that this product is not produced in our country, and the committee stresses the need for there to be no aid division in relation to this bill, we propose to give a full list of these machines, equipment, goods, services that will be fully written in this bill. If we don't do that, it's going to be a division that will lead to the fact that we're bankrupting the idea of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u77	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna. Next Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u78	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, we already have a tendency to find a compromise solution if necessary if the issue is in the interests of the state. The issue of bookkeeping, especially the book of Ukraine, is the question that needs to be taken into account today, given that we do not have a book book that is so complete that we still need to move away. How do you look at taking all this rational grain out of every bill and still taking it as a basis, maybe the Cabinet of Ministers with that supplement and accepting it, because for the next year you still have to think about making our Ukrainian book move out of place. How do you view it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u79	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. We stressed to the committee that there were two or more bills in the room, so none of the bills were the right to support it, because there were no votes. So we stressed that the positive and constructive proposals of other bills should be included in the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u80	Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u81	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkva, Rava - Ruska, Lviv. Dear Mr. Sergei, I am very grateful to you that the committee on banking is finally supporting this bill, which is really necessary. So thank you very much and very much from "our Ukraine" and from many national deputies. My question is. First, do you know that in an independent Ukrainian state today, there are as many books per capita as there are in Nicholas I? That's the first question. And the second question, since we have one book per capita in Ukraine, is it obvious that our distinguished president also has one book? [[One per capita!]] So maybe you know, because from the Presidential faction, what's this book, what's it called, which the President read this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u82	I guess I guess the number of books we have in the country isn't enough for civil society. But if it's not in the level of humor, in this bill, which it's not accepted, Mr. Volodymyr, because the benefits that we've given over the 10 years of our state's existence, they are a half-time higher than our budget. So there are other benefits, they're not going to benefit society. As for the question of the President's book, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u83	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich, sit down, please. We took over that time. Dear colleagues, let us consult. Have a seat, please. Let's say we have a draft law amending some of the tax laws. This is also true of the publishing work. Let's listen to the report, the report, and then we'll talk about two questions together. Is there no objection? The word is given by Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I think you can support the presiding officer, because these two really are related. In fact, it's the same question -- it's about supporting our bookkeepers. On May 17, 2001, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Tax Laws, No. 2410-3, which temporarily provided support at the national level of the country’s publishing body by January 1, 2003. As practical experience has shown, support has proved to be very effective, and it has helped domestic publishing producers to compete more or less effectively with the like export product. However, the final or stable development of domestic publishing entities, as well as the real possibility of their competition with foreign producers of similar products in Ukraine’s markets, are unfortunately too early. Therefore, the purpose of the bill is to support domestic publishing entities by continuing to provide them with the benefits that exist today. I mean, respected colleagues, so that they wouldn't go on long, because my colleagues, who had spoken with previous drafts, talked a lot about the need to support the subjects of the publishing business. But what I'm proposing is a simpler way out of this problem: to continue for two years the benefits that exist today. That's what the law is all about. We can continue to discuss the more complex support of our publishing subjects. But if we don't make a decision with you, January 1st, the benefits stop. And our publishing subjects, all printeries, are virtually uncompetitive in our Ukrainian market. So, honourable colleagues, this bill, it doesn't need any adjustments and changes, because this bill is in force today. And there's a two-year offer to continue the benefits. When better laws are passed, they just stop. But my proposal is to vote on Thursday in the first and second readings, that is, to set up guarantees of survival for our publishing today. They're not just bookstores, they're publishing newspapers, including the opposition press. So, dear fellows, I think all interested in surviving our printeries in difficult market conditions. So once again, this bill does not need any further calculation. He doesn't need any budgetary changes, because these benefits work today. They just need to be extended, as a minimum, for two years. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u85	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. My friends, the next Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u86	Dear reporter, we know that. I wanted to ask your predecessor this question. It is known that manufacturers of liquor and tobacco products have benefits, not all of them true, but a portion that exceeds 1 billion dollars a year. Could not at least half of that amount be passed on to the publishers? What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u87	I believe that those products that are harmful to the health of the nation do not need any help at all. And certainly, all of this resources need to be passed on to those manufacturers who produce social goods like books like newspapers, like textbooks.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u88	Taran Viktor Vasilovich, please, the next Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u89	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I have a question. I mean, Alexander Valentine's Day, the adoption of your bill does not exclude work on other bills, as I understand it. So we can and should definitely support your bill on Thursday, but work on the bills of Silence and support them too. That's the first question. Did I get it right? And the second question. Tell me, please, this was a question to the committee head about what goods we can buy abroad to develop our production. Don't you think that the same book is a whole series of jobs that are being prepared, whether it's glue or coats and so on. I mean, you can buy less abroad, because the development of the bookstore is the development of the whole industry, it's new jobs in all sectors. Do you understand? So it's not just about the book, it's about a much broader aspect, I think. And this is where it can import less, and vice versa, it can focus on the development of its own production. I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u90	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich, for asking. Dear colleagues! I really agree with Mr. Terren's first conclusion that the adoption of this law that I propose is a guarantee that in the following year the position of our publications will not deteriorate. So it's going to stay at the 2001-2002 level. This is the main guarantee that we can provide with you today. And really, it's not an obstacle to discussing and finalizing those bills that we've had here 15 minutes before. So this is a normal process. They may have more complex questions to discuss. But today our task with you is not to make worse the situation of Ukrainian publishing producers, which today took place on the market, because this is going to be just a disaster or bankruptcy for many, and we are actually going to destroy our own producers of such socially beneficial products. With regard to export restrictions or import duties, the list of goods I offer for import is already identified and is in operation. I mean, I'm not making any additional proposals. I ask you to leave what is today. It's a fairly well-founded position, it's dyes, it's foil, it's other, let's say, technological strands that are not produced in Ukraine today. Or they're produced in very limited quantities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u91	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u92	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! I remember the law that we passed in May 2001 on making changes to some of the laws of Ukraine on taxation, which gave rise to certain benefits for the publishing industry. It's been in operation since mid-2001, but let's face it, it didn't make any significant changes to this sector. So you know what I'd like to ask you. All right, let's do what you say colleague Terren says. We will first put to the vote on Thursday the government law reported by John Sergiyovich Chizh. Well, if he didn't get the right number of votes, there's no question, we'd agree to vote on the law you proposed. But if he gets proper support in the hall, would you not agree then to withdraw your offer and join the government’s offer, for it is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! I do not refuse to support the offer of government, or other national deputies, who want to protect our producers of printed products. But there is a danger that this law should go through the second reading procedure and then be adopted as a whole. It is a risk that we may not be able to make it, and the holidays will continue. I'm going to remind you that the session is going to end and we're going to enter the new year 2003. I'm just offering to be scared. By the law that provides for the adoption of a government, or our national deputies. That's where all the other laws stop, including the one I'm talking about. I'm simply asking you to be afraid, fellow believers, and in the first and second readings, to give a guarantee to our publications that the conditions for their existence will not deteriorate in the following year. When we can improve this, it'll be okay, it'll be decent. Moreover, there is a dispute here with the same budget committee, which says that in such a new position under the Budget Code, it is true that one should be adopted one year before the start of the budget year. So there are problems that we can just take off so that we don't corner ourselves and, you know, we can improve indefinitely, but so that we don't get any worse. That's what's important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u94	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Associated with the Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has authorized me to brief this bill. It's technological, if we're going to adopt the first bill, then in accordance with the Ukrainian Tax System Act, we have to make changes to the existing laws that apply to tax matters. Clearly, then, this bill has to do with the first one: it is accepted first, it must be adopted second; it is not accepted first, it is not accepted. The only thing I wanted to point out. The committee has a rather pessimistic attitude about the benefits that the government has set out. Among other things, the government did not make a clear decision on those benefits, and there were many observations. And so we're going to have to work pretty hard not to allow these benefits to be used by people who just cling to the bookstore and have nothing to do with the development of the Ukrainian book. So any proposal for the adoption of this law as a whole on Thursday is very reckless and we ask that it be accepted only on a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u96	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. No questions to the reporter? Have a seat, please. For replication, the word is given to Chiju Ivan Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! It's not a replica, it's like the quintension of the proposals that came in here. First of all, thank you very much, because today we have a situation in Parliament, when we actually get out with the law, I feel it. And it's a good thing that there's a Turk's project, Alexander Valentine's Day, it's an insurance policy, and it happens to be an insurance policy. That's my offer. We're really going to be discussing, of course, the bills -- we're voting on Thursday, and I'm asking you to support 2205 -- the government project. I hope he's picking up. The Turkinova project can be applied to the vote not this Thursday, so let's say we continue when we vote on the second reading. If a second reading of the project is already under way, both King and Paul Mikhailovich Silent, the problem will be removed as such. In this case, all possibilities are, as it were, in the Supreme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion will take place after the break. And now we have a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u99	Let's move on to the question. The word is given to the rest of Igor Ivanovich. Please. Is there no Ostrich? Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please. Disciplinary himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, first of all, it is very good that we have come to the point where the Cabinet of Ministers has agreed to propose today's law, because when did this room raise the question: Who is responsible for our bookstore getting to such a pitiful state? First of all, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics and all other distinguished ministries have to agree that the publication should be given adequate benefits. And that's why it came about in this area. Now. Are these really benefits? Actually, it's no relief at all. Because the measures proposed by government law help the industry to stand on its feet and make huge profits each year, the facts have already been cited that Russia has a fifth place in the business of the bookstore. I understand the situation is that part three of article 27 of the Budget Code provides that any changes to taxation should be made to legislation by August 15. But I'd like to ask Ivan Sergiyovich Chizh, or whoever works with him, you take this arithmetic and make simple calculations. Yeah, we're about 50 million or 60 million dollars away from the budget, but given that jobs are immediately being created, that people will be working in those jobs who will get paid, and that salary will be taxed, that will be counted into the Pension Fund, it's obviously not 50 million or 60 million losses into the budget, obviously these figures are being equalized very quickly. And the last. There are three projects. I would ask all of you, colleagues, to agree that the project proposed by the government is the most promising, because it takes into account all three areas -- the publishing industry, that is, publishing, preparing the book for printing, the polygraph part of printing, and distributing the book that we have to care about, because without the distribution of the book, and we have already lost shops in Kiev and in many district centers, we will not put this field on our feet. So I ask you all to vote on Thursday for the project presented by the Cabinet of Ministers in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u101	The rest of Igor Ivanovich, the next oilman Boris Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u102	Dear Chief, distinguished fellow national MPs! First, we need to answer the key question: Who are we going to support with these bills? Perhaps we still want to support the Ukrainian booksellers, the Ukrainian textbook, and do everything we can to support them, because, in fact, you can also paint a child with water and make this bill a subject of serious abuse. And I am absolutely in agreement with the Deputy King here, who says that we really need to write out the nomenclature of all the goods very clearly, in order to then put a barrier to such cases. But I think that this problem should also be addressed in a broader context, in the context of the survival of Ukrainian culture in general, in so-called market conditions. Look what we have today. It's not just about the book. When you go to the store and you want to buy a CD, a Ukrainian CD, of course you'll be able to buy English, French, Russian and a very small number of Ukrainians, but unfortunately, which are much more expensive because they can't compete with products that have huge, wide transnational markets. Same thing with the cinematographer. I wanted to take my son to a movie to see a Ukrainian movie. But virtually all Ukrainian cinemas today show duplicate American, French, or original Russian films, but only in Russian. Clearly these are also market conditions, and it is clear that this is already the work of so-called transnational companies. And we're practically losing the Ukrainian cinematographer. Thank God, there has been a movie about Mazepa, which many of you have probably seen before. Then I'd like to say. In fact, we have to do everything we can to restore the very important thing -- the library collector thing, fill the Ukrainian libraries with new Ukrainian books. Since our libraries are virtually in decline today, the book’s funds are not being filled today. And a Ukrainian library reader is virtually unable to read a Ukrainian book, which is, first of all, student libraries. Unfortunately, time is running out. I would also like to say one more thing: Support for the businessmen of our modern bookmaker. I'd like to emphasize in particular the beautiful thing that the trade mark "The Crown" is doing, which supports young authors who have organized a beautiful competition, thus encouraging a huge number of young people to write the Ukrainian book in Ukrainian, including genres. So I think that's a good example to support. And we can't just support the Turkish bill, because in fact, by supporting it alone, we're going to preserve the state that we have today, and it's impressive and unsatisfactory today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u103	Oily Boris Ilchi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Ivan Sergiyovich Chiz briefly but clearly stated that we are dealing with a strategically important national problem today. Holy sizes of a father, a mother, a native land, but if not a level, there is no doubt that a book like a unique medium of spirituality that prevents us from forgetting who we are, where we are from, and whose children we are. Regrettably, in an independent Ukraine, the book began to be measured, not at the spiritual cost, but at the amount of money available. Of course, those who look at things at the point of view of commerce will always find excuses in economic difficulties, but is it not the result of ignoring the intellectual, spiritual, moral dominants of society, whose composition is the book? Many of Parliament’s ancients remember repeated attempts to create a simplified tax regime for the national book. Regrettably, the mountain was taken by so - called proponents of public interest who were concerned, saying that without book money, we would not reach a deficit budget. And as he was, he's still in deficit, but the book is slowly dying. And how much we lose from the moral, spiritual degradation of young people, from the loss of their original parents, and from the belief in the future. All these expenses are largely due to the prolonged deficit of an honest, good, wise Ukrainian book. Who are we going to raise when, as the reporters have already said, in Ukraine, in the center of Europe, less than one book, oblivion, mancurts, or legioners are produced per capita? True, the fine poet Leonid Talai, who in the literature of Ukraine shows that citizens deprived of national dignity and patriotism provoke moral degradation of society and social conflicts, become easily a different coin in the hands of politics. I don't go into the essence of the document, and everybody gets to know him, and all I'm going to say is that it was those who accompanied the book from the original design to the reader, the unique national association of writers, the Ukrainian Association of Readers and Bookellers, Educators and Enlighteners, that made it clear. I assure you that these people have been guided solely by the interests of the State and its future and by whom and by whom they can be trusted. And I give it to the State Committee for Information. politicians of John Chiju, who have put much energy into this noble cause. So I urge you to support this bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! The time taken to consider this matter is over. The vote will take place on Thursday. Let's move on to the next one. There's not enough time to do what? For the purpose of the report, the word is given to the Klukkowski Jury Bogdanovich. Draft law on the election of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! I should probably be grateful that the fourth time it was the turn of the draft bill on the election of the President of Ukraine, which you are proposing today. For some reason, we have found that political passions are always entrenched around electoral legislation. I am convinced that in this respect the law on the election of the President of Ukraine is an exception. The point is that each election bill consists mainly of three parts. The first part proclaims the principles and principles on which the electoral legislation of Ukraine should be built. The second describes the electoral system. And the third is procedural, technological, where they are regulated, all the electoral procedures that together form the electoral process are normalized. So in the case of the President's election, this is actually the second component of the electoral system that doesn't give anyone any warning, which is usually the most politicized. Thus, this bill does not propose to change the electoral system and should therefore not give rise to any special political warnings. What is the purpose of the bill on the election of the President of Ukraine when there is a valid law adopted in 1999? The main goal that we have pursued by introducing this bill is to achieve the unification of Ukrainian electoral legislation. It's between. This is especially true of the procedural part. Between 1999 and 2002, the final edition of the law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies took three years to develop Ukrainian society. During this time, our experience became much greater, and we got a better understanding of how to normalize the electoral process. If you compare these two laws: the Presidential Elections Act of 99th and the People's Deputies Election Act of 2002, right in the procedural section, you'll see a huge difference between them. Yet it's not acceptable for absolutely the same things -- the electoral process -- to be regulated in so many ways. That's why we wanted to introduce a law amending the Presidential Elections Act. However, it turned out that such changes must be too much to follow in such a way. So a new edition of the Ukrainian Presidential Elections Act is actually proposed. I'm going to stop at a few key points that are being proposed for change. First of all, the point that caused the denial of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which I would like to answer. Under the Constitution of Ukraine, the election of the President of Ukraine or the turntables is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, the Constitution does not speak of what act they are appointed. It is known that the Supreme Council can adopt two types of documents: either law or regulation. However, the law comes into force only after the signature of the President of Ukraine. Can we appoint the election of the President of Ukraine by law? I don't think that makes sense. On the other hand, the Supreme Council’s decision under the Constitution of Ukraine is not a binding document for the execution of state executive powers, primarily the Cabinet of Ministers and local government administrations. That is why the bill proposes that the decision on the appointment of the President’s second or second ballots be taken by a Supreme Council decree, but this decree has the power of law, that is, it is mandatory for enforcement. The bill proposes to limit the nomination of candidates for the post of President of Ukraine to political parties only. Is this a narrowing down of citizens’ rights in Ukraine? I would like to remind you that article 36 of the Constitution defines political parties as the subjects of the constitutional process in Ukraine who are the only ones, apart from the individual electorate, authorized to participate in the elections. Only the electorate and the political parties participate in elections according to the Constitution of Ukraine. Of course, it would also be possible to foresee a mechanism of self - exaltation for the presidency. But when it comes to national MPs, I think it's perfectly normal, but when it comes to the position of President of Ukraine, it seems to me that self-expression is a little bit frivolous. I am convinced that the nomination of a candidate for the presidency should be made by an entity that guarantees a certain state-wide, national status. I want to remind you that the political parties in Ukraine exist and operate only with state status. At the same time, I think it would be wrong to predict the placement of labor groups. This is not a concept, it is not a subject of constitutional law, it is more of a private labour law. And besides everything else, I don't know any labour force that would have national significance, except maybe the labor team of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From a political point of view, I think that everyone will agree that the number of potential candidates for the post of President of Ukraine is largely defined today, and there is no single person among them, no potential candidate who today would be more or less connected to a political party or a political party block. So, the real limit, there shouldn't be any problems here. Some innovations in the field of the territorial organization of elections. First of all, I would like to point out that the election districts for the President's election are purely technological. This is just an intermediate link between the polling station and the central electoral commission that makes the final election results. So I don't really understand why this is about 225 districts. The bill proposes 250. I think it could be 200 and 100, but my goal was to draw attention to this problem. I think that this question can easily be solved when preparing the bill for second reading. Yet, with regard to the polling stations, the question is no longer so simple. Today, there are 33,000 in Ukraine. 113 plots. There were just so many in the election of Ukraine’s national deputies. With more than 2,000 voters. It was 6 grand. 152 precincts. These are huge polling stations where huge numbers of voters gathered on the day of the vote, and there were turns. As a result, a large number of voters were disappointed and simply left the polls and did not take part in the vote. Among the recommendations of the organisation of security and cooperation in Europe are: to reduce the maximum number of voters per division to 2,000. This is what the bill proposes. This will result in an increase in the total number of polling stations, orientally, to 35 to 36 thousand. Instead of the 33s today. This will, of course, entail increases and expenses from the budget. Yet I don't think this increase in expenditure will be significant in terms of the social and political effect that we will create by providing better conditions for our voters to vote. A very important problem is the voters' lists. Of course, there are several bills currently under consideration by the Supreme Council concerning the registration of natural persons or the registration of other Ukrainian citizens, but until this problem is resolved at the legislative level, the procedure for the compilation and particularly the clarification of electoral lists, especially in specific institutions such as hospitals or criminal enforcement institutions, needs to be improved. In this regard, according to the 2002 experience, the bill proposes serious changes. I will not talk about the need for a more detailed regulation of all procedures related to pre-election agitation, but I will only point out that the voting procedure and the counting of votes from the law in force today on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, the bill on the election of the President of Ukraine. And the last thing I want to stop at is the last time, but not the last. Today, there are many issues that arise around the problem of accusing decisions, actions, or omissions of the subjects of the electoral process. The Law on Elections of People’s Deputies has taken a major step forward, but the practice of the last elections has shown that it is not yet sufficient. This is why the bill contains a separate chapter, which includes a six - article series, where the reasons, order and method of addressing both the electoral commissions and the judiciary with regard to the prosecution of decisions, actions or omissions of subjects of the electoral process of the various natures of government or local self - government, election committees, candidates, citizens’ associations, political parties, and so on, the media. I am convinced that the bill proposed to you at the discretion of his assessment may be supported in the second reading to accept the final text of the one that most of the Supreme Council would like. However, I would like to stress once again that without amending the current law on the election of the President of Ukraine, it will now be difficult to speak seriously about compliance with the standards of democratic elections in Ukraine. And last remark. They're thinking that we don't have to rush into the adoption of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act, because, he said, we don't know what changes will be made to the Constitution, and I've heard such objections, and that maybe the President will be elected by the Supreme Council. I can honestly admit that I don't believe this, and I don't think even the transition to the parliamentary-presidential republic will cancel the President's direct election. Well, well, if such changes were to be adopted, the President's election law would be null and void. But if such changes are not accepted, we have no right to remain at the level that we were at in 1999. I sincerely hope that this bill will be supported in the first reading, and I think that preparing for the second reading will allow us to improve it substantially. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. There was a good point about the Supreme Council. It should be strengthened, perhaps. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please. Alexander’s word is given to Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u108	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich. I've been very familiar with your project. And now I'm not sure if it's up to you or before, because there was another project. I made many suggestions under this law. I support your opinion that it should be considered right now, because everyone can be in a situation, maybe we'll have to choose in three months, so we need the law to be. This is about, please tell me, are all the comments about the formation of election committees taken into account? According to my suggestions, I know that you and I have discussed this before, we need to move as far away from this procedure as possible, to put the whole matter on the electoral agenda. One question. And the second question. In your report, you may not have focused so much on, let's say, the opposites: election and liberation. Is the impeachment procedure written here or is there any procedural point in this project? If it does not work out, it may be necessary to take and anticipate another project in this document in order to be clear in this regard. So as it's created, let's say a party, that's how it is, the principle or the mechanism of its elimination or self-elimination.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u109	Thank you for asking. Well, I'll try to answer all three briefly. Well, first of all, an hour. I am sure that if the elections, God forbid, will take place in three months, they will be under the 1999 law. Practice shows that the passing of the electoral bill in the Supreme Council takes on average a year, which is in intensive and urgent work. So this bill, I think it's okay to prepare for the next election. With regard to the election committees, the experience we had in the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies is transferred here. The committees are formed vertically by the higher electoral commissions for the submission of electoral subjects. The law has been improved, and the right to replace a member of the commission with a candidate is more clearly stated. This was a flaw in the valid Law on the Election of People’s Deputies. Here it is suggested that this is improved. And finally, the question of impeachment. It's the Ukrainian Presidential Elections Act. The question of the termination of the powers of the President of Ukraine is the subject of a completely different law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u110	National MP Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc, Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Anatolia Matvienko, head of the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u112	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u113	Yuri Bogdanovich, we thank you for really presenting an interesting project. But I have three questions, if I may, answer all three of them. The further, the more we see that we are not agitating, but they are buying voter votes. Tell me, how does your law foresee the inability of such a thing as, say, 201 constituencies to the Supreme Council in the Cherkas region or the last election to the Kiev City Council? Second question. How does your law rule out the existence of a seriously ill person in this office? Because I understand that we have a very big problem with that or we can have it. Does your law provide for any kind of test, test? And do you not think that it is necessary to do so? And finally the third question. We have already had the practice that it is possible to go to the higher echelons of power. Do you not consider it necessary to exclude those who have been tried and who have served a certain term from applying for higher office, including the presidency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u114	Thank you so much for asking. About the voter bribe. All the legislation in force in Ukraine, including the Criminal Code, prohibits direct bribery of voters, and I will not repeat the criminalization of this crime. However, in view of the fact that electoral practice has shown a very frequent use of such a form of electoral stimulus, which cannot be called a direct bribe, but which has already been banned several times in electoral legislation, the bill proposes the concept of indirect bribery, which cannot be classified as a criminal offence, because the Criminal Code does not have the appropriate action, but which is qualified as a violation of electoral legislation with the appropriate consequences arising from it. With regard to restrictions on the abolition of passive electoral law, that is, the right to vote in the elections of the President of Ukraine for persons who are sick. or persons who have a trial, this law cannot solve problems, these are problems of the constitutional, direct text of the Constitution. With regard to judiciality, which has not been removed in the order established by law, the Constitution provides for this restriction. With regard to health, the Constitution does not provide for such restrictions. So this problem can only be solved by making changes to the Constitution, which is not solved at the level of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u115	National Deputy Dry, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u116	Thank you. Yuri Bogdanovich, I have a brief question. I want you to take a minute. Anyway, please return to this subject unconvincingly, that there is no need to harmonise your law with those processes of political reform that are taking place in society. Take a look at this in particular. If the election of the President and the election of the heads of the states, the state administrations are now kind of out of order. We're choosing the President now, and he's kind of assigning the rest of the vertical. So there's one more thing. This is about political parties alone. And you said that there was no such expectation, that there might be some kind of reinforcement of some political party if the president wins. But how do you make sure he's not one party or one party block or the president of all of Ukraine? Two such questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u117	I'll start with the answer to the second question. I have already heard this warning that if the President becomes a person supported by a particular party, there is a danger that he will prefer the interests of this party to the interests of the state. And I'm going to answer that with the question, "How would you like to know what interests will be given to a person who, without the support of the party, went to the office of President?" - Isn't it your own time? Why should we assume that the person we propose to be President cannot become superclanic or narrow-group interests and become a representative of the entire nation? I am convinced that such people are and that that is what we will choose. With regard to the election of the heads of local administrations, it is obvious that they will be called otherwise, that we will consider the relevant bills if we make changes to the Constitution, that such fasts become electoral. As long as it's not there, there's nothing to talk about. As for making other changes to the Constitution, for God's sake, we can go back to this problem. But once again, I want to emphasize how normal it is. It takes about a year to get through the electoral law when it is properly processed. If we wait for changes to the Constitution or there will be no changes to the Constitution, then we just don't change the law that's in force that's been long enough since -- in 1999 it was good -- today it's just obsolete, and it's recognized by experts and politicians and foreign experts, it's just not enough time. I don't want us to complain that we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u118	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Time's up. Thank you. The report invites the head of the State Building and Local Government Subcommittee, Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko. Please. In seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u119	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", the Committee of State Building and Self-Government. Dear friends! The proposed bill is certainly very important because it regulates the election of the chief official in our country, the President of Ukraine. The point is that this bill, which is being considered in advance, is very much needed right now. Because in the past we were looking at a bill about the President in March, and the elections themselves took place in October. This six-year statute allowed someone who knew what its contents would be, to prepare in one setting, and to someone who didn't know what parameters the struggle would be. So any electoral legislation would certainly be better if it was pre-adopted and all participants in the process would be guided by it. This was the first argument that the committee of September 11, this year, decided to support the bill and recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis for its first reading. The second argument, which was supported by the committee, was that indeed the electoral legislation of Ukraine needed to be synchronized in all its aspects, especially in a part that did not affect certain political things, it was part of the formation of electoral committees, the entire system of these electoral commissions and the regulation of voting. Because we have very different approaches to these positions today in those laws that regulate the election of the President of Ukraine, the election of Ukrainian national deputies and the election of local councils and village heads. So this was the second argument that was also made on the committee in support of this bill. And the third argument, which has also been actively supported, refers to the positions that the Ukrainian electoral system is gradually passing and that are now supported by the President of Ukraine, that is to say, proportional positions. The language goes that this bill is part of the President's nomination. Its support regulates the position that allows the parties to carry out this very important political action. And here the arguments that are against this position, they don't stand up to criticism, because today's system, when no one knows who this candidate is from and who is politically responsible for the work of any President, is more unacceptable and all democratic societies in the world are using just another scheme when there is a certain political responsibility for the nomination. Regarding the discussion clauses that are also included in this bill, several of them have already been discussed here today, and they relate primarily to positions such as the participation of the administrative apparatus in the electoral process. One way or another, his involvement in this process causes either the support of one part of the room or the dissatisfaction of another. I think we could also discuss the number of constituencies, because there is a system in which 225 constituencies serve the election system to the Supreme Council, and 250 that are proposed should ensure the election of the President. It breaks the pattern. Perhaps we should step away from this and return to the standard system. And in terms of terminology, there are some suggestions. Science-expert management denies, however, the use of the terminology of duality, but it's not essential. There are also very important positions as to how to clearly define the role of the judicial system in the conduct of elections, because recently the latest elections have confirmed that today our courts can pass any decisions, even the opposite. The election system in Kiev, when hundreds of candidates were removed from the local councils because they allegedly do not live in those districts, together with hundreds remaining candidates from other political forces, who also do not live in the constituencies, shows that the judicial system today should be more regulated in this area to ensure freedom of action for candidates. What took place in the election, where Alexander Girr was running, has once again confirmed that political orders in the judicial system are being performed irreprehensibly. So it's going to have to be written out. But the bill itself deserves attention, and the Committee on State Building and Self-Government raises questions about its support in the Supreme Council Hall and suggests that it be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Please sign up for a question to a coconspirator. Please point it on the board. Boris Bespali, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u121	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Volodymyr Dmitrovich, is there such a spontaneous discussion in this room that it is better to be a party president or a non-party president? Are you familiar with examples of such, let's say, developed, permanent democracies, where, at the head of the state, the presidents were non-partisan? Well, France, Germany, Poland and so on? That's one question. And the second question is about funding. It is known that electoral funds are now largely shadowy because they are limited. What would you suggest here is a control mechanism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u122	With regard to the first question, Your Honor Boris Jakovitch, you answered it yourself. There are no so-called non-party presidents in permanent democracies, because it is only a person who can benefit from the political support of the majority of the population or win elections with a relative majority in relation to other candidates who can benefit from the broad support of powerful political forces. I mean, it's just not going anywhere and it's not going to work. And this is one of the elements of the political upbringing of society when it is imposed on us not to support those or other politically colored people, for they will represent only one or more interests. It's a lie, it's a lie to the population. We need to move on to the world standards of the electoral system. Regarding the funds used in the election. We all understand that no electoral system that we have today is legally sound enough to ensure the full funding of the elections and to ensure the purity of the process. We all know that some powerful business structures that put forward their candidates provide sufficient funding whether there is a legislative restriction or not. This can be done, and it's done everywhere and everywhere through different channels of financing, closed, hidden and so forth. So in this case, when it comes to the President of Ukraine, we need to ensure the political purity of this process, I would recommend, I think it can be written in the law -- open lists of donors for this process that would be published in the central press. All those who have contributed to the electoral fund of a candidate must be published, and to be people and structures known to all voters in order to be able to verify the origin of the money and so forth. At the same time, legislatively, it is necessary to protect candidates from being removed from registration when these funds are not authorized, i.e. the candidate has to accept these funds consciously so that they will not be removed from the election in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u123	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u124	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Dmitrovic, how do you think the bill will protect Ukrainian society from falsification in the election by the executive? In the last election, practically, 100 or more ballots were thrown at each office for the President-in-Office, and it was organized, and they were grabbing at the hands of those who were leaving, and security officials were looking at it and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u125	Thank you for asking. You have faithfully pointed out that today the influence of the administrative system, the influence of the executive power on the electoral process is extremely large, disproportionately large, and I would say illegal. Because throughout the world it is known that the legislative and representative bodies are formed by the choice of the people, and then they form executive organs. On the contrary, the executive organs, starting with the Cabinet of Ministers and Administrations at different levels of the aprior, determine who will be the deputy. So it's turned from one foot to the other, and that's a general pattern. In the district leaders’ offices, they know who they will be before the elections, starting with the village councils. That's not right. Therefore, this law must limit the impact of the administrative apparatus and the executive bodies on electoral processes in this part. And I support the idea expressed by Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz regarding the removal of administrative structures from these processes and the granting of the right to electoral subjects, political entities, political parties from the beginning and to the end of this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u126	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u127	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Dmitrovic, in article 23 you propose restrictions, minimum number of members of commission 14, maximum 20 for representation from the political parties that put the candidate in office. As you're looking at, it might be possible to limit the amount not so small, but to increase a little bit, because not all political parties can actually give their representatives, that is, when they go into the bloc. We've seen Donetsk, especially in other areas that we've been giving. Block one, and it's given to all political parties, regardless of what's going on in this block. How do you view such a pattern? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u128	The author wrote down here, as you have noted, this position in such a way that all political parties and blocs that have broken down and are now parliamentary should be accepted as part of the legislation on the election of national MPs. This is a mandatory position. Well, it will, as a minimum, ensure the political representation of all those parties that have the right to vote in the Supreme Council. And then, really, the problem begins. Because who, and how, determines who to go to the commission and who to whom not to go, has a large number of applications. This balancing mechanism is not operational in any legislation. And I think that's where he needs work, because we've had cases when. It's in this part. And the second part that you're talking about is that the political bloc is represented by one person plus every party that it has and also represents is illegal. And the Elections Act provided for the representation of the political bloc by just one person, and those parties that created it had no right to assign such candidates to those committees. But I think that we need to work out this regulatory rule clearly, because you know how some political forces used the method of withdrawing their candidates from the commission, they broke the work of these commissions because of the lower limit, and when one or two members of the commission were set to leave, at the will of one or two of the political parties, the commission was ineffective and its activity was wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u129	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Seven national deputies were enrolled in the talk. We have, as we agreed, 15 minutes to discuss. National MP Bespali Boris Jakovic. Get ready, Chewbacca.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u130	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. What the law should be. The honourable colleagues who treat the task, that's what the law should be. The Law does not solve any problem in itself, but it either contributes to its solution or hinders it. What is the problem with Ukraine today? The first problem of our elections is fair elections, free will of voters and prevention of counterfeiting, primarily administrative pressure of power. From this point of view, I want to stop at a few key points. First of all, it's the volume of the law itself. Napoleon once demanded that his lawyers write the laws briefly and clearly. It is understandable, for when the law is written briefly and vaguely, then the solution to all matters depends on authority. And so the fact that this bill is so detailed is regulated is, in my opinion, the greatest advantage. Because other positions can be changed, and the technology, which is very carefully written by Yuri Klukkowski, by the way, with the involvement and the Central Electoral Commission, a wide range of experts, is in this case an innovation for Ukraine. I think that's enough to support this law. Second, these are election committees. Election committees, they have to meet two requirements, that is, there should be qualified people. And there are enough of these people in Ukraine, but there has to be objectivity. Because internal control, the control of election committees is now a key circumstance. No outsiders will replace them if they play one hand to the election commission. I'd like to compare the situation here with the performance of an illusionist from the circus when the election committee in the arena, the magician in the arena, and the outside observers in the theater. And so that they don't look at it as if they didn't see it, if the magician is in the arena, he's definitely going to do his trick. Therefore, the mechanism for the formation of election committees by political parties is the only way to really ensure the objectivity of electoral committees. Because we know that there are many political Partiphants that are created specifically for elections. And this is what we saw in the elections to the Supreme Council and to the local councils that were in March, which is very important, in my view, is that the parties that overcame the four - percent barrier, that is, the real parties, have a guaranteed representation in the election committees. Dear colleagues, there's still a lot to say about this, but I have little time, and there are still many colleagues who wanted to say something, so I think we should come to that agreement right now. And the profile committee supports, and our faction "Our Ukraine" supports, I have no doubt that on Thursday this bill will support the entire session room, and we will have a project that will allow more or less objectively to hold presidential elections, which has not yet happened in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u131	Yellow Eygen Dmitrovich, next Semenyuk. There's no Chevy. Semenuk Valentina Petrovna, please. Next Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u132	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! The new draft bill on the election of the President of Ukraine, as already stated in the report by Yuri Bogdanović, is indeed drawing legislation closer to unification. And this greatly improves the organization of work, both by state authorities and by local self-government, and by bodies, particularly those political parties that participate in the electoral process and, in particular, during the elections. Today is not a secret for any of us, that commissions that are formed by political parties, especially during parliamentary elections, and in presidential elections today are actually formed from political parties, but in many cases because of the limited number of fourteen or twenty as I said, asking Mr. Bondarenko's questions, is the way to bring out sooner or later the representative who is disagreeable or the representative of the opposition party. We saw this especially in Kiev. As a representative and chief of the electoral headquarters during the presidential campaign, I saw that these representatives had been expelled from the agreement to those executive officials who had often been asked to do what was said to be wrong during their work. And I would also like to say that we have a lot of work to do about it. a wide range of efforts to bring out political parties, especially those political parties that have crossed the 4% barrier. And this is correctly stated in the bill, which gives the nearest step so that the political parties that have passed the 4% barrier today have a permanent representation and there are no appropriate restrictions on the representation of them in the election committees. At the same time, we want to make some comments. In particular, article 1, which is proposed. The treatment is about summing up, and article 83 of the bill denies that the results of the President's election have been established. Needs to clarify the order of re-election of the President on the basis of the submission of the Central and Control Commission. [[this article 16]] In our view, it is necessary to establish in the election of the President, not 250 constituencies, as stated in article 19, but for the purpose of unifying and systematizing the electoral process to leave 225 as it actually is in Ukraine today, and this makes it possible to work better. These remarks will be made in writing by our faction. It has been submitted by this time, before the new edition, before the first reading, and we believe that the adoption of this bill will allow more democratically the election of the President on a new legislative basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u133	Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u134	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Given the due diligence of the drafters of the bill, which takes into account many of the positive provisions of the current law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, the experience of the last election campaigns regarding the application and presentation of the electoral procedure, I find it useful to comment on the individual provisions of the bill. Especially. Here Yuri Bogdanovich focused on the fact that article 16 of Part 1 states that the Supreme Council takes a decision on the election of the President of Ukraine, who had the power of the law. But today, there is only one legal act in Ukraine's legal field, where the text states that it has the power of the law is the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. At the same time, there is an explanation of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, where it is also noted that the definition that a normative act has the power of law does not have any legal effect, since the objective of that act is not necessarily achieved. Article 18 may be too late to calculate the terms, for with regard to the calculation of the terms there is also an explanation in the decision of the Constitutional Court and the calculation of the terms in this law is neither specific nor subject to regulation as defined in the bill. Hardly logical and reasonable is the requirement of part one of article 23, which makes it possible for candidates to be nominated for a local election commission when they are registered under the law of a party organization, a party, a party block that has nominated its candidate for the presidency. It is known that there is no requirement in the political party law that the registration of a party that has a state-wide status requires registration in all regions of Ukraine of its centres. As for the requirements of article 30, part two and part three, I think that's a mistake. In the absence of time, I will not focus on this. The main points are these. With regard to the candidate’s income declaration, we all remember the problems with applying this rule in the election of deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I believe that the principle of approach to this article should be changed; the declaration should, in my opinion, be submitted to the Central Electoral Commission by the Tax Administration, and then there will be no possibility of speculating and threatening to withdraw certain candidates from the election of the President. As for another such important direction to be worked out, a number of provisions in the bill are defined as a violation of electoral legislation. However, neither in the text of this law nor in other legal acts has there been a sanction for violating these rules, and if they are separate and defined, they are far beyond the scope of the electoral process itself. Our faction will support this bill in its first reading. And I hope that all the proposals we're going to make will be taken into account in the work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u135	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. The next one is Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! The bill proposed today by Klukkowski Jury Bogdanović is very serious. And I thank you that he stands up for the position that he needs to take right now. It should have been taken a long time ago. The only question is, do we have a point to this bill, or do we want to have a bill like that? And I want to tell you that we have a completely illegal person in the country today as President of the State, Kuchmu Leonid Danilovich. What? Because in the last election, we introduced a law on elections here in this room, a rule that was supposed to prevent a man over 60 from running for president. Considering that he is the commander - in - commanding officer, considering that the commander’s fate is so severe that it is both necessary to run and so on and so forth. This rule was voted here in all the readings, everything was adopted. And at the final stage, when it had to be signed and placed there, this rule was falsified! falsified, thus enabling us to take office today and to carry out the genocide of the Ukrainian people. You know, in just a year, we're down by 1 million. A man. Now about the inadequacies that are in this law, and I would say the pink glasses that are in Yuri Bogdanovich's. Yuri Bogdanovich, take off your pink glasses, before you, the man who passed the President's election in 99th year as a candidate for the presidency. Starting from the moment the State Security Service came and said: under the law we are obliged to take you into protective custody, but please make a deal and put out as many thousands of bracelets as 30 or 40, I don't remember how much they offered me. I said, please tell me, which money am I going to make this out of? Does Kuchma pay this money? Does everyone else pay? How is that possible? The law provides, and I'm told, like this! I'm saying, well! Then let God keep me, and let your good people be ashamed. The Lord God protected me, even though certain democracies in certain areas, and more specifically, in Donetsk, in Luhansk, helped me to get out of this life. So, dear friends, I would like to see this law, first of all, impose restrictions on abuse of officials and officials. These are clearly recorded once and for all. The other one. For it to be clearly stated that the one who was tried, executed, or executed should not be the leader of this nation! This must be recorded in the law! And your warning that the Constitution does not forbid it is, excuse me, nonsense! Next. It has to be written that it cannot be the President of a person who was an agent of special services or of the former Soviet Union, or of today's special services, because this person cannot be jerked around. Keep going. I don't want to talk about such details as to be responsible for refusing the debate in the form of an immediate withdrawal from registration. I'd like to say that the radio companies should be listed here in the law, as they broadcast. It's not written in the law. Again, this is a path for abuse. And then this article 60, in which you predict the principle of equal conditions, is in order, as provided for by this law, exactly equal conditions, no such law yet foresees, is just a principle. That's why I'm in favour of adopting the law in the first reading, but for its substantial detail, so that we don't have any more illegal presidents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u137	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u138	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I support the thesis of the author of the bill, the Klukkowski Jury Bogdanovich, that the law should not be written under the current political situation, under active candidates or real candidates for the presidency, but I think that the law should be written taking into account the previous presidential election campaign with the shortcomings and the substantial violations that have occurred during the previous election campaign. In my opinion, in our country, we need to be quite strict in the procedural and procedural parts of things that have not been implemented. For example, said Comrade Carmazin, all that involved direct television debates, of course, should be clearly clearly regulated. We can't deliver commercial television companies, we can contact them. With regard to the state’s communal form of property, it must be a duty for citizens to watch direct television debates of presidential candidates, especially in the second round, which is fundamental in all countries. The second position that was actively used in the electoral campaign of the past is the use of a service position and, in particular, the use of budget funds. We know how the electoral campaign went when an active president came to the region, and the workers asked him, and he said I was solving your question. The budget was funded, so, of course, the budget of the presidential candidate, the non-president and the President-in-Office were completely diverse, just fantastically inappropriate. The whole part of this service block has to be clearly described in the paragraphs when it's possible to react already during the election campaign, because when they then refer to the head of the district administration and so on, and when the presidential election takes place, no one needs it anymore. And in the end, I think an important moment is connected, there is a certain logic of the political process and, I would say, even the political psychology or thinking of every nation. For example, Turkmenistan believes that man’s wisdom begins there somewhere after the 60 ’ s and 70 ’ s. In 80 people, they think about how to make decisions. I think our story shows that we have a little bit of a different kind of wisdom. We have the State Service Act, which has a clear standard of 65 years. I would have put 65 years as a deadline for not being able to participate and register with the presidents, because this is already a period of reflection: writing books, thinking. And the president's job is up to 65 years old. If we make that decision, I don't think it has any feedback and next year it won't touch Leonidas Kuchma, who will be 65 years old in August. But all the following candidates for presidents need to understand, and when we register, we need to understand that 65 years is a term that applies to all civil servants, including the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this matter is now under consideration. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft law on the completion of the construction of the Crevice Mining Coal Coal. Reported by Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Industrial Policy Grishenko Sergei Georgievovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u140	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. You have been presented with a draft law on the completion of the construction of the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combination of oxidized ores. I would like to remind you that this is almost the only object in which Ukraine has declared itself to be a successor of the former Soviet Union, since this building was launched in 1985 on the basis of relevant international multilateral agreements with former Czechoslovakia, the former German Democratic Republic, the national Republic of Bulgaria and the Socialist Republic of Romania. Today, the construction status of the combination is characterized by this. The cost of this facility at full capacity — almost 10 million tons per year — is $2.4 billion. Some of Ukraine’s construction projects amount to 56 percent. Romania's share - 26 percent, Slovakia - 16.3 percent. Other countries in Germany and Bulgaria have virtually ceased to participate in the construction of this combination since 1992. Work was done on January 1, this year for $1 billion, 650 million, or two thirds, 66 percent. In view of the end of the financing of construction from the State Budget since 1997, the need to meet the obligations of foreign construction participants, the inability to further postpone the issue of the future fate of the combination today needs to be addressed with regard to the sources of construction financing and accounting with the countries involved in the construction. We are now well aware that it is not possible to build a combination at the expense of public funds, just as it is impossible to involve investors in the completion of construction under the conditions of existing legislation. So it was necessary to adopt a separate law to complete the construction of this combination. The basic principles of the bill are to provide an enabling environment for the financing of the construction of the combination and the fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations to the countries involved in the construction. For this purpose, the law provides for the cancellation of the already existing tax debt of the combination, for the provision of a combination of the benefits offered by the special regime of investment, as well as certain conditions for the transfer of property that belongs to Ukraine free of charge in this construction, for the ownership of investors on competitive terms under the conditions for carrying out certain obligations. These are practically just two commitments. First, to complete the construction of the combination, to bring it out in the first launch complex with 6 million 600,000 tons of ocatics per year, and a total of 9 million 900 thousand tons of ocatics per year. And second of all. To fulfil Ukraine’s international obligations, bearing in mind that we signed them in 1994. This is what the basic provisions of the law on the investment regime, on the restructuring of tax debt, on the application of a special tax regime are aimed at. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Lighten up. Matvienkov Sergey Antoliyovich, please. Next Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u142	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Sergei Georgievich! About what it is, we'll talk like this, the gap that needs to be revealed, there's no doubt. There is no doubt that this issue must be resolved. That it was a building that was built by the former, let's say so, brothers of mind and idea, there's no doubt. It's a different question. Well, we'll find today, let's say, even the means, we'll build this facility. How can you, as a representative of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, to date organize the sale of this product that will be made, can you organize its work, precisely in terms of the amount that is planned today? Or do we build to pass it on to those who ordered it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u143	Thank you for asking, Sergei Anatolyevich. If you answer one word, you can. But they can't be the same as the combination was originally intended to be used. Dear colleagues! It was 1985. During that time, we became 17 years smarter. Technology, technology, mining, oro-preparation. To date, therefore, the Ministry, together with our specialized institutions, will fully reconfirm the project. We'll complement the fleet's enrichment scheme. As a result, we will have modern production, whose quality characteristics will allow us to say that this product will be competitive. To remind you that today we are importing iron raw materials to close the balance, we are not just using our ocatis. There are two respected people's deputies, the director of the enterprises where these ocatis are produced. But we will. Today, we are importing a certain part of the island from Russia. 50 per cent of the products that will be produced at the combined facilities will be used by the Ukrainian mining complex, those that today import similar products from Russia, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u144	Vitaly Yakovich. The next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u145	Sergei Georgievich! weakly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I just came back from Dnepropetrovska, and there were, you know, two flags of socialist construction: the Djrjinsky factory and the Petrovsky factory. Today it is a state-owned enterprise that has been handed over to someone by some incomprehensible document to the government. And that's how they run things. So far, these enterprises don't even pay a fee for land in the city. We don't know who to talk to, because we don't know who's behind these people who took over these factories. So you, as a representative of the State today, can clearly answer whether there is a point today for the State to invest money in an enterprise that will be transferred to government or privatized, and then there will be the same conflict that it will not be a public one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u146	Thank you for asking. The idea, which is precisely that an investor should come and, by its own means, complete the construction of a combination with a minimum of budgetary resources. No, the budget may require a limited amount per year or 2 years to maintain the combined direction, to adjust the project and to ensure that the conditions are met. And the idea of this law is that almost free of charge, or if you want a symbolic bracelet like in Germany at the time for a symbolic mark, everything that has been built so far by the former Union is transferred to the property of an investor, provided that it fulfils those obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u147	Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u148	Thank you. Sergei Georgievich, I have this question, if you look a little bit wider, to go beyond Ukraine. So in China, investment is already made up of about one trillion dollars abroad, of which 70 percent are in state-owned enterprises. So I have this question, this is an object that could benefit the state in developing a strategy. Why do we want to give two thirds of it to someone and then not know what's going to happen? I think he should stay in state property, but we need to develop an appropriate strategy and invest, show that it's a benefit. Because it's like we're going to throw, and then we're going to figure out what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u149	Mikhail Antonović, almost 10 years since 92, since the decision on the lawfulness of Ukraine, we have tried to do so. You are well aware that there was a separate law under which there was a separate tax of 2 per cent of the cost of products for all mining and metallurgical complex enterprises. These amounts are obviously not enough. We will be realistic, we will not find the budget necessary today to complete the construction of $240 million and we will not find even 130, given the adjustment of the project we are implementing. What will the country end up with? The country will have a working company that will operate in order, which is already 3,000 today, and will have some 7,000 employees. The city of Dolinsky will be revived, the infrastructure will work, wages will be paid, taxes will be paid in our budget, everything will be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u150	Time is up. Please sit down, Sergey Georgievich. The report is given to the national deputy Gurov Vadim Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u151	Dear Gennady Andreevich! Dear colleagues! Well, what can I say. The law that we are currently considering is so contradictory and so much opinion from everyone on this issue, and almost everyone has an opinion that does not differ with the life of the GOKOR itself. You know, there's a lot of stuff in the farm, let's say, a slap of some kind. It's a year, it's two and it's distracting everyone. Someone will come and say, "Let me take it." And the master says, "Oh, what do you need?" Well, we have to take everything. That's what it's worth. And he's not going to give away that garbage, because suddenly someone needs it. I think that's exactly what the GOKOR is. Here we are thinking: one and a half billion, two billion, we put in, we got blood, then we won it, and now we give it back. Well, let him sit on that GOKOR. Yes, he is. We have invested, not just ours, about $2 billion. Not rubles, not bracelets, dollars, solid currencies. And, of course, it's a pity, but the point is, he croaks uselessly every day. I want to say as a professional and a professional, that the technology that's already in place, it's even if you let it go, it's the result that it's not going to give, that is, it's not going to have this product if we even build it. But that's not even the point. My colleague Matvienkov asked me a question, and I listened carefully, and I listened very carefully to Shibko. The same question is of concern. Okay, well, this is a normal approach to the case, so we built it, yeah. What's next? And I want to tell you, if we were to find some money and deliver it, it's practically a death for our iron combination, because of the death of Krivbass. Why? Because it's all calculated, not emotion. Currently, we, Ukraine, are exporting 5.5 million dollars per year. A ton of iron ore, mostly ocatisium. This is about 4.4 - Poltava HOC, North HOC is 0.4 - central - 0.7. We have about 35 percent of Ukraine, 40 percent Russia, the rest Western suppliers. Growth is stable in Europe every year - not more than 3 per cent. This is steel, and steel is converted into these components. Thus, if we make the calculations made by the Cabinet of Ministers before 2008, we will assume that we will, in principle, have at our disposal an amount of 6.5 million dollars. tons. Plus import 1 million. That's 7.5, no more. And the project is 9.9. Well, then, see what happens. It's just that we're gonna start paying off the raw materials. And the question is, what is Krivbass going to do? One year, two year, and everything, the export market is almost entirely closed. It's closing! That's why the project we've submitted is very different. Although we have chosen a lot of positive things that the Cabinet of Ministers has given, we believe, in principle, in the same way as 11 million planned. We don't need him, we don't need him, and we don't have to fund him, we have to throw him out of his head. The project that we've submitted is, at most, 6.6. I mean, first of all. Exactly what I told you about the 6.5 we can give. And on the other hand, unfortunately, there's a huge technique, huge. Well, it's a little old, but it's the latest. It's too bad to leave her. She needs to be re-profiled. That's the second question. The most important thing now is the land. You know what she's worth. It's not just land anymore, it's mostly private, privatized. So, the storehouse of the GOKs, you know, is already expanding, and you have to think about how to deal with this trouble. It's all set up there, so you can figure out about 6 million tons, and the rest is to put a mini-sculpt with alloy steel, titanium flow, and so on and so forth. There are calculations on this issue, calculations are very serious. There are the conclusions of two of our committees. Well, first of all, the expert department said that you can accept it on first reading, and we agree with that, but there are comments and a financial department. This is the financial department in the position of the landlord who won't give in. He's saying how so? There's a budget, there's a cappuccino, let's make a cappuccino out of this budget, and we'll make our own arrangements. Why would we give someone, an investor? We're on our own, and everything's gonna be fine. So where did the cappuccino budget come from, if 3 million in a single line this year, and we've accepted it with you, and recently we've just given 2 million. Now it's 8,000. That is, almost 8,000 unemployed people who are ready to enter the workforce. It's the Kirovograd region, well, that's what we're going to say, and it's hard to carry, and it's a pity. Therefore, I believe that the co-sponsors of this, both Olenik and Ehanurov, have made such a decision, when we have consulted, that this law must be invoked as a sponge in matters that have been asked by the Cabinet of Ministers and adjusted slightly. This law has been amended. As a result, we believe that it should be accepted after your comments have been finalized and adopted on first reading. I actually have everything I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u152	Please sign up for questions. Lighten up. Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich. Next Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u153	Vadim Mikolaiovich, reverend, I understand that we made a fundamental mistake in 1994, which made the obligation to take full responsibility for that combination. At that time, we had to make a stock company of those who had built it in the Soviet Union. We've taken on all of our debts, including 44 million tons of rounding already we have to pay off our debts. You're saying that if we let go of this factory, it's going to kill export opportunities and so on, other factories. Well, if the private owner comes, will he, what, look at our interests? He will look at his interests, and he will quietly kill all the other factories that we are now so afraid to kill. So, what do you think, he'll count with us or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u154	Thank you for asking. Of course, with us, if there's an investor and he's really going to make it, well, can we dream? Of course, whoever pays is the one who's gonna dance, and there's no other way. But in any case, we have limited production in our project: not 11 million, as planned, but only 6.6. This is phase one. And half of these ocatis will be processed at their metallurgical plant. You'll see in that explanatory note. We expect stainless steel, titanium production, powders to melt here. In short, a whole range of the elements we need. So we don't put clean ocatis on the market and leave the market behind Krivbass.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u155	Ještenko Volodymir Mikolaiovich. Next Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Petrenko. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u157	Turn on Petrenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u158	Vadim Nikolaevich. Petrenko, the Communist faction. The Crimson Fire Collective is concerned about the debt of 3 million construction and installation works. Who's gonna pay for these debts?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u159	I'm on the case for these debts. In principle, debts are now formed in the construction of our part. And of course these debts are long overdue, and because debts are the wages of these workers. And they should have been paid from the budget for a long time. We've given three million delays, but the same money has not been allocated. So if you expect it to come one more time, you know, it's not quick to do it, it's not quick to live with the Aglostro, it's work today, it's not waiting for the investor to come. That's why we don't want to, but the pay issue has to be decided now. This is how we decide about Donbass, if it's a bad thing, but we ask the question. That's exactly how these issues need to be resolved. A working man can't work now or get no money. It's a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u160	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u161	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Please hand over Síbka Vitalia Jakovitch, he's from there, he knows better. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u162	Turn on the microphone, Shibko. Please, Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u163	Quickly, the Socialist Party. Vadim Mikolaiovich, from what time did you cease to respect the council? How could you write that in a paragraph? "by the time of the introduction of the special investment regime, the combination is exempt from payment of land tax." Does that mean the council won't get the money or what? How could that be? And how much is that going to cost at all? And what's that going to be in the period?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u164	I understand that question. This question is one of the most ill because these are the most, let's say, internal city council taxes as you rightly suggest. It's been like this before, when we were taking both terricones and under the mines, they thought we didn't have to pay for anything else. Well, I was also the author of this idea, the co-author will come back. And when he came to town, I'm happy to say that everyone was released. And my council says what you've done and what we're going to live for. That's why I'm saying it's not final. And here's your comment that you've just given us will be considered. And I think this item will have to be thrown out. I agree with you. Which means experience. One point goes away from such a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u165	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Yuri Ivanovich, will report. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! Why two bills? Because according to the first bill passed by the government, the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council has made a number of observations. So we consulted the Ministry of Industrial Policy, set up a working group. I am grateful to all those who have worked hard to get some hair on this law. If we get this out of the way, this bill, which is submitted on behalf of the committee members and by a group of national deputies: Gurov, Yehanurov, Olijnik, is an advanced version. There are some innovations, new terms are introduced such as "investor, tax debt" and so on. What does that mean? What are some questions? The main question is international. We're being attacked by Romania, we're being attacked by other countries, we have to demonstrate that we're worried about this problem. That the Supreme Council is the higher legislature is finding ways to solve this problem. The committee, after considering this issue, therefore, proposes to adopt a draft law on the completion of the construction of HOCOR under number 1074-1, as it has been finalized, on the first reading. And, dear colleagues, given the budgetary situation, given what kind of capital investment we're going to be able to invest there, I think that's going to be decided by another law. If we can really figure something out for next year, we'll figure it out. No, so we'll get to the second reading in a year or two, but some hope needs to be given to people. And the most important thing is to settle for the debts that are already in place to maintain the working condition of this combination. Last one. Lyric. The last time I worked in the government, I put a picture in front of my eyes where the GOKOR was depicted in the background of the sun and believe that I tried to do everything I could to support this situation somehow. Unfortunately, all these efforts have been in vain almost. Because it's huge. We can't pull that off. It's perfectly understandable. But from this situation that we can pull out, believe that we are your colleagues and that what we can get out, we will get out. So I ask you very much to accept in the first reading and to complete the subject in better times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u167	Is there a question for Yuri Ivanovich? Please sign up. Lighten up. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u168	Please pass it on to Baraniwski. He's a budget committee, he'll say it all right. Please, Alexander Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u169	Baranowski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u170	Thank you. Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Yuri Ivanovich, you may have said so here, "when was the last time I worked in the government."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u171	I've worked in the government several times, so I say.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u172	You may still have to work, not for the last time. But I would like to ask you the following. Please tell me, in 2001, according to the data available to the budget committee, we received taxes from the metallurgical complex of 500 million dollars. As a result of the aid granted by the State to the metallurgical complex, $9.5 billion was extracted from the State Budget. Do we have to invest here so that tomorrow someone can re-engage this enterprise, or maybe it's better than something else to forget that it is and not torture such a failed "child"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u173	Dear countryman! What can I say? If we could forget it, we would have forgotten it a long time ago. But we'll be reminded of our closest neighbors in the former socialist camp, that we've put a lot of money back there. As soon as we get out of there, we'll have to pay for it. That's the first one. Second, there are people living there, there are about 9 or 10,000 people who have the hope that there will be some life there. That's the second question. So we have to solve social. As far as the benefits are concerned. You know, I'd like to get out of the Ukrainian lexicon at all, but in this case, there's a big discussion about whether or not the benefits in the metallurgical complex worked badly. I think that the historical part of these benefits that were, let's say, a historic mission has been accomplished. Metallurgy today brings Ukraine’s largest revenue budget and, most importantly, export. Now, according to the law, the benefits end. Let us no longer talk about this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u174	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, I am deeply saddened to estimate how much money has been thrown out in the billions now and to mention one person of the Soviet era, Rizkov Mikola Ivanovich -- remember, the head of the Council of Ministers, who once said such a phrase that I would not want to go out from scratch as a builder. Now it seems to me that a lot of people don't want to go from scratch, and you tell me, please, how do we get out of that position right now, do we have the official position of Romania and Slovakia, I emphasize, the official position, and how is it expressed in adopting this law on the adoption of this law? How it can be adjusted in terms of the international agreements that have already been made, given that the logic of your bill certainly impresses me far more than the government, for the government is completely absurd. They're just spending our government funds in the sand and talking about 3 million when they buried billions there. And the level of representation today, I don't have anything to do with the deputy minister, but today we have a government doing the duty, but even if Dubina could come or Kinakh, someone, the question is very important to industry and the economy of the state. Where is the government today? What's he getting the money for? They have been entrusted with the responsibility of the President. On these questions I would like to hear you, and I certainly support your version of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u176	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for your position. As a person who worked for many years in construction, I can tell you that in this case it's not about what we should be doing. Well, there's no fat, there's a decent way to get out of the situation. We suggest that we get out of this situation at a minimum cost. The thing is, there's no politicians out there, unfortunately there's nowhere to turn, there's no place to turn, there's just a need to roll up your sleeve and in this mess, as they say, get out and make some kind of decision, no matter what. That's why this proposal is. And about the government. I think the presence here of a deputy secretary of state who's been leading this issue for years, I think that's enough. Well, the government, you know, they have other problems now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u177	Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich and we finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u178	Dear Yuri Ivanovich, please tell me that you have watched every day. Well, share, perhaps you have dreamed of how you can get out of this situation in order at least to avoid the great losses.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u179	You need more than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u180	Thank you. I got it. No, it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. Dear colleagues, our proposal is, well, let's say, minimal, the very minimum costs that can be borne. We can, I haven't answered Yuri Anatoliovich's question about the official position of Romanians, Slovaks and so on, God forbid, we're going to move this double. If they claim official positions, and then some other political forces, especially in Romania, will start to spin it, don't let God let this acceptance in the first reading let the future government say: here you see, this year we have read in the Supreme Council, discussed, adopted this bill in the first reading, you see, we are already moving. And that's how we're going to talk for two years, then we're going to take the second reading and we're going to take the third reading. The next governments will say, you see, we're already doing something. Friends, I'm telling the truth so that the producers can sit here and understand what this is about. The question is bad. I need to accept in the first reading and all, give some hope to that small group that is still there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m0.u181	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the discussion will take place at the beginning of the evening session at 4:00 p.m. And now there's a break.
