ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:03:28]] Registered -403 There are 403 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 2.5.2.2 of Wednesday’s Rules, we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages, and proposals by national deputies. I'd like you, your honor, to sign up for statements, messages and suggestions. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Alexia Kozachenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure to implement article 46 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2002. I'll bet you a vote on that request. Please make up your mind. [[10:04:30]] For-146 For - 146, the decision is made. The Gennady of Rudenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the involvement of the leadership of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for lack of stock at the expense of the congregation for geological exploration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:02]] For-129 Decision taken. Oleg Humenyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of disaster relief measures and the construction of sociocultural facilities in the Ternopil region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:33]] For-144 Decision taken. Stanislava Phydenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the electrification of the Kiverzi-Luck Lviv Railway. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:59]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Maria Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the granting of the status of the mountain settlement of the Tachiv district of Zakarpat. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:25]] For-151 Decision taken. Groups of deputies: Kirilenko, Mokchan and others - only 13 national deputies to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Seminozhenko in connection with the lack of information on the MP's activity of a group of experts on the objective reporting of Ukrainian-Russian relations in history textbooks. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:02]] For-126 Decision taken. Leonidas Cherniewsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal offences of environmental law in the Darnicki district of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:28]] For-100 Decision taken. Alexander Turkinov to the Head of the State Committee on Information Policy, Television and Radio Broadcasting in Ukraine on the number of violations of the laws on advertising by the domestic media. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:00]] For-142 Decision taken. Vladimir Matveyev to the Head of the Kyivenergo sharer power company regarding the heat supply to the premises of the Kyiv Research Institute of Sugar Industry. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:29]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please explain on the table those who signed up for the performances. National Deputy Noshchenko, faction of the Party "Industry and Entrepreneurs" and "Poor Ukraine." Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u3	Maybe you'd better get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u4	From the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u5	Yes. Good afternoon. Please, Your Honor, follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u6	Noschenko, faction of parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Trudov Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It is not news that legislation that has been adopted and deals with the most painful issue of our society, such as overcoming poverty, is working ineffectively today and does not produce the desired result. In addition, it must be acknowledged that not all laws that have a major impact on improving the lives of the poor are priorities and turn to them. I mean a bill that was introduced in July for the consideration of the Supreme Council on changes and additions to the Social Protection Act on low-security species. What does this bill offer? Well, first of all, the system of targeted social assistance is being organized, and all of us majors in the pre-election congregations made promises to all of us to organize, improve, improve. These changes will allow you to assign help to the complex for one request, according to one statement. Second, it changes, it's the only kind of aid financed from local budgets. And today, 145 thousand poor families, the debt is 92 million. In fact, no money is paid to these families. I want to give you just one figure: 145 thousand families who have agreed to be examined by social workers, and today their average total income is less than 80 dollars, or every day for every member of the family is 2-3 bracelets. Changes will also be made. change the funding formula, convert it to the State budget. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in public speeches, you said that the session hall that is today will be so, the situational configuration in the vote changes and we must unite the social laws. I would like this social law, bearing number 1368, to pass the third quarter without coming to the vote, to be the first to vote tomorrow, and in my opinion, it will unite all those present in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u7	Thank you. The National MP of Vernigor, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, prepare the Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u8	Vernigore, Socialist Party. I'm asking you to give a word to my socialist friend and neighbor, Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u9	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. What started is that it always starts in the fall. In the Chernobyl region, and probably not only in the Chernobyl region, but all over Ukraine, total power cuts began, especially in rural areas. We know there's a very hot time in the country today, going to pick up later crops. Nevertheless, those who have adopted Ukraine’s energy systems continue to abuse their own people. As with my colleagues from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, I had a conversation with colleagues from the Communist Party faction, other factions, with calls coming from places. What, then, is happening in the state, why did the power outage begin again? From this high rostrum, I address the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kinakh, to those who are responsible for the normal work of the state, who is responsible for his conscience and honour in front of his own people. Ladies and gentlemen, let's step into something here, let's turn off some electricity, leave it in a quiet village. That's not possible anymore. I know what hard work is in the country today. And when you come after work, and everything's off, don't cook, don't wash, and so on, I'm not going to spread it anymore. I'm calling again, look at the village, look at those people today who are disengaging their own people from the life that the Soviet authorities gave them. Another application. As we know, today the Cabinet of Ministers will consider the introduction of a holograph on the protection of excise stamps used on tobacco products and on alcohol products. We warn the Prime Minister that this is, this is the decision that will be made, it will allow those parts that push this issue to make at least a billion dollars. This is the case with the State Tax Inspectorate, Nazbank, Minust, and there are numerous requests from national deputies. Once again, I would like to refer to Prime Minister Kinach, pay attention to this decision, because the MPs will simply leave the right to appeal to the Attorney General's Office again against this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u10	The national deputy of Gladys, the faction of the Party "Industry and Entrepreneurs" and "Urrigible Ukraine". Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u11	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. The accident that took place in June at the Hymprom State Enterprise in the town of Pervomaysk Kharkowsk region did not result in a technological disaster solely because of the operation and professional activities of the factory's chemical unit. The plant, owing to financial problems, has long been unable to replace worn-out equipment in a timely manner and implement environmental safety measures. Although the production of this factory is needed by Ukraine. Today, even the production of chlorine and caustic soda is on the verge of stopping. And without these substances, there is not yet a single Ukrainian plant for the preparation, treatment and centralization of drinking water. The 30th-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-threat. At the public enterprise today, only the central authorities can hope for help. As early as July, I outlined the requirements of my constituents in appeals to the Government and the Ministry of Emergency Affairs. It was necessary to allocate seven million bracelets for the Pervomai Hymprom for production in an adequate safe state and to resume the production of chlorine and caustic soda. The inhabitants of Pervomaysk are seriously concerned about the possibility of recurrence of dangerous accidents. But they also have a vested interest in the resumption of production. Because Himprom is the only big business that fed the city. Every second family makes a living here. The plant was the main donor of the local budget. It had the city's social infrastructure on it. The city budget is now in a catastrophic situation, with no money to pay teachers, doctors, social workers. The Hymprom TEC provided the homes of the citizens with warm and hot water. Today she is very ill prepared for winter. One and a half million bracelets are needed to repair the thermal power plant, neither the city nor Himprom. Regrettably, the executive branch of the Kharkiv region has removed itself from solving the most difficult problems of preparing the city for the winter, leaving it on. The population is on an arbitrary basis. Literally, last Saturday at the selector's meeting, the Deputy Head of the Kharkiv Region stated to you that he would answer the question. [[I mean, to me.]] In turn, I would like to ask this official whether he knows his duties or whether he recognizes by the statement that he is not in conformity with the position he holds. I take this opportunity to refer once again to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Ministry of Industrial Policy, with an urgent request, to provide, I stress, a State enterprise that is a particularly dangerous enterprise, with the necessary financial assistance. Additional State budget grants also require a city budget that is inadequate because of the mere milling of millions of dollars of planned income. With regard to Hymprom's prospects as such, I am convinced that the successful operation of the enterprise in market conditions is no longer possible without serious investments and transformations of ownership at the enterprise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u12	People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u13	I ask you to give the floor to Deputy Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u14	Please. The People's Deputy of the Teeth. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u15	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I mean, we won't be able to get Ukraine on the path of normal civilized development until we learn to tell the truth in this room. The truth, first and foremost, is to ourselves, to our electors and to our people. It hasn't happened yet. Here's a specific example. Yesterday, as you recall, we discussed the Ukrainian National Security Bill. The Secretary of the National Security Council makes a presentation. The co-Rapporteurs, the people's deputies, are speaking. We talk a lot, we talk mostly about nothing, we talk about nothing. Not to mention what constitutes a real threat to the national security of the country. And the truth is that every day, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian public servants, beginning with the re-establishment, ending with the people's deputies and members of the Government, break their oath of allegiance to the people of Ukraine. You are well aware that we have all sworn allegiance to the people of Ukraine - I emphasize neither to the President nor to the Prime Minister nor to the superior superior, namely the people of Ukraine. And the profound truth is that the current Ukrainian President Leonid Danilović Kuchma is a real threat to national security. It is because of the heavy accusations against him that the country is losing millions of economic aid, the moral support of the world community. And the truth is that under the personal patronage of the President, not only cultural and sporting activities are carried out, but under the personal patronage of President Kuchma, the brutal journalist Gongadze and Alexandrov are killed. [[And you know it.]] Under the personal patronage of Kuchma today, hundreds of thousands of street children roam the streets. Under the President's personal patronage, our women were abandoned and filled all the brothels of the world. Under the President's personal patronage today, conditions have been created for the living to envy the dead. And there is no other way for us respectable colleagues! It is my responsibility to state that every day, every hour, every minute of this person's office as President poses a real threat to Ukraine's national security, so we have no choice but to begin the President's impeachment immediately. If we truly care for the prosperity of Ukraine and its people, we must do so immediately. If we do not do so, it means only that all of our work is a lie and a betrayal to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u16	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine." Prepare Lukyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u17	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will have the opportunity to address the political situation today, so at the request of a member of my "Our Ukraine" faction, I am handing him the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u18	Jaroslav Kenzior. Hurry up, 'cause time's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u19	Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! On more than one occasion, the problem of the situation in the Lviv region was a problem. I have repeatedly argued that the Lviv region is unique in Ukraine, because of the rise in the political structure of the SDPU(o), with the state structure of the State Tax Administration, the Lviv clan, which today poses an enormous threat to the functioning of our Lviv region, eventually Ukraine. This increased political state clan, now essentially led by Viktor Medvedchuk’s younger brother Sergey Medvedchuk, is a single leader of the Lviv region. In connection with the operation of this clan, the economy of our Lviv region is at risk. Private enterprise and business are being destroyed. Major influences on the formation of a political situation in the Lviv region. In fact, the tax administration headed and raised by the Social Democrats of the area today has become a repressive body that has a serious impact on the formation of politics. [[United]] The problem of the Lviv region, the problem of the function of this clan, has now gone beyond the Lviv region and moved here to the session hall. You know that the Supreme Council has already collected 150 signatures of the National Deputies regarding the recall, the call requirements, the removal of Sergey Medvedchuk from this post. And then the formation of an appropriate deputy interim investigation commission to verify the activities of the Lviv Tax Administration. I'm making a proposal on behalf of the "Our Ukraine" faction that tomorrow the question of the formation of this committee of inquiry on the basis of the demands of one hundred and fifty members of the Supreme Council and the decision to create this deputy interim commission of inquiry and to entrust it with a detailed study and conclusions on the activities of this mafia clan in our Lviv region. To conclude, to make my speech not so sad, I, my distinguished colleagues, invite us to the Ukrainian House tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. for the creative evening of our colleague Vladimir Yavorowski. Today, I'm sorry, 6:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u20	Thank you. The word is Leukko Lukyanenko, a faction of Julia Timoshenko’s block. Get ready, Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! I would like to address the honourable legislators with these words: In 11 years Ukraine is not being reborn but is being destroyed. Who does that depend on? It's up to you and me, it depends on the part of the deputies that all of these 11 years think not about Ukraine, but they think about themselves, they're the people who care about the fate of Ukraine, they're the people who led our factories and factories to destruction. As you travel around Ukraine today, you occasionally meet broken, broken-down factories and factories, sugar factories, where the windows are broken and the swan grows. It's like a new Tatar invasion. Why do we allow Ukraine to be destroyed? As we look at those people who have become poor, hungry, and now they're talking about a hunger strike for 32-33 years, and they say that now is not better, we're not far from dying again. Why are you doing this? Because you know very well that social stability depends on what difference there is. We're the top profit and the bottom profit of the citizens. When in Germany in Western European states the difference between the largest profit and the smallest is 7-8, this is a stable society. When we have a difference between the poorest and the richest in a hundred and a thousand times is the basis for instability. You look at our society: 5 percent is rich, 95 percent are poor and hungry. It's a slow-acting bomb. And you who study social processes not only in Ukraine but not only now know that this contradiction will be resolved, it cannot be solved. Only the solution can be solved in two ways: Either we close our eyes and abuse this poor nation, or the nation will eventually rise up and this contradiction will be resolved in blood. You may not see it, and you can deliberately go and lead Ukraine to it. Yes, the wisdom of the governing line is that it is to live and to give life to people. And that's Europe, and it's cultural, and it gives us a connection. So I urge you, on whom it depends, who has factories and factories in hand, who now runs Ukraine's economy, be smart, do not lead Ukraine to rebellion and to the resolution of arms conflicts.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u22	People’s deputy Yeshchenko, a faction of Communists, is invited to prepare for Shershun. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like everyone to come into the session room. In 10 minutes, we will have to vote on one very important decision to bring the issue of the political situation into the agenda and to consider today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u23	Please give the floor to a member of the Kravchenko faction Mikoli Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u24	Please, National Deputy Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear people's deputies, distinguished drivers who may now be listening to us, I am speaking to you as President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the protection of the rights of the driver created last July, almost bringing together almost 10 million people. Today, the organization is organized and established in 19 areas of regional organizations. The issue of creating a newspaper of its own is now being resolved. The main task of this organization is to combat the proliferation of GAI as the most corrupt, most responsive structure of the Ministry of the Interior. And to be honest, what we considered today at the Supreme Council meeting about the detention of one MP is a disgrace, of course, but what the GAI is doing today with 10 million people will be less than what is being done now. Here are some examples. Decree No. 0556 was adopted on 23 May 2001, which further raised more than 2 billion bracelets from drivers. 1.01.2002 introduced new traffic rules, which are no different from the previous ones, but because each driver has to buy them by force, they are about 40 million bracelets of an additional collection from the population. In May 2002, vouchers of prevention may be introduced illegally to improve the so-called driver's behaviour. And the constant activity of the GAI today is this cynicism towards drivers, this so-called secret road traffic monitoring and struggles, total defeats that are now coming in millions of dollars. The All-Ukrainian Society for the Protection of Drivers' Rights, which I am representing today, has developed special measures to combat this divide of the GAI, and today calls for the inclusion of all members of the people on this issue and calls for support for the bills that we will be implementing here. I'm talking to the press today. Given that the interests of nearly half of our voters are being disputed today by GAI workers, and I ask that today's organization of the public be an open debate on the GAI leadership(?) on this subject. And the last. I don't have two thousand dollars in the organization today to pay on "The One," but they will come and we'll be on the air, and we'll be revealing the activities of this very, very, very corrupt structure of the IMF.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u26	National Deputy Shershun. Prepare the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u27	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian agrarian party The Honourable Head of State, honourable national deputies, today I am forced to raise questions about the State’s obligation to people who have suffered as a result of the CHAES accident. And not just because it's in pain for its Sarnen constituency, where it's extremely relevant, but because it's obvious that it's collapsing after the Chernobyl rehabilitation of the population and the territory in general. This is reflected in the implementation of Chernobyl’s financial commitments in the current year and in the next year’s expenditure proposals. As an example, let me give you a few figures for the Equinox. Actually. a building program that is actually costed only 38 percent of the budgeted expenditure. And to provide for the affected residents of the area from the beginning of the year there were only fifty, I did not agree, fifty thousand dollars. This is because there are almost three thousand families in line for this housing, of which over 600 families are the families of the first category black people with disabilities. Some of them are waiting for housing back in 1990, although legislation obliges them to provide housing for this category for one year. Another article on expenditure, Radiological Protection and Environmental Health of Contaminated Areas, is funded by only 5 percent. By the way, it's never been done in half. This means that people living in polluted areas continue to eat contaminated foods and continue to be exposed to radiation. And so it will be with their children, and then with their grandchildren and so on. What, then, can a healthy nation be spoken of? In the last five years, the number of people with disabilities, whose disease has been associated with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, has nearly doubled. Despite the fact that there is a schedule of spending from Derbujet on programmes to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and signed by Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach personally in early October of this year, it is not being implemented at all. To date, let’s say there has not been a single single copy of any of the articles on this schedule. But that is not all. The 2003 budget provides a number of expenditure control figures, which are 4-5 times smaller than the actual needs identified by valid legislation. For example, to implement the national programme to minimize the impact of the accident on CAES, 24 percent of the need is foreseen for the following year, about as much as for the social protection of the victims. And the Government’s proposal to translate in 2003 the funding of a social assistance programme for low-income families with children and the provision of benefits to the inhabitants of polluted areas at the expense of local budgets is generally considered absurd. And I urge my colleagues to support me. After all, even with the funding of those articles from the State Budget, huge debts have been created today. Only in the Plains did they reach more than tens of millions of dollars. To throw these payments in the area means to stop them altogether. I urge both the government and the national deputies to be honest with people. If we have national programs, they should be carried out by the State from the State’s execution and to the fullest extent. And let's not forget that the Chernobyl accident is not a local nuisance, it's a global disaster. Please consider my statement as an official request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u28	I have declared the People's Deputy Zubov. And we're running out of time. Is there a People's Deputy of the Teeth?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Squire.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u30	National Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u31	Dear National Deputies! I would, of course, like to draw your attention when we, in "different" look at the political situation in Ukraine and we are going to look at it today. Before that, I would like to point out that there is now a problem of political prisoners in Ukraine. You remember the events of March 9, 2002. By this time, there have been nearly two young boys in the Lukyan detention facility who have been accused of an article of the nonexistent Criminal Code under article 71 of the Criminal Code in 1961. There was no retraining, there were hundreds of court cases, and there were hundreds of violations during the investigation. Nevertheless, it is clear and clear that there is political persecution in Ukraine. This is an exceptional political issue. And people who are accused of a criminal act are ordinary political prisoners who are persecuted for actions and statements that are permitted under the Constitution and all constitutional norms in all developed countries and even in a country like Ukraine. How else can we describe the regime’s existence in Ukraine unless it is emphasized that it has its own political prisoners? 14 people who are currently behind bars are in a critical state of health, and they have gone through three famines to get the trial started. They have been subjected to detention and torture in detention cells. However, they did not break or give any evidence to support their guilt, but they and their lawyers did everything to prove the case. The other one. The basic evidence that was used there in the court case had already been completely destroyed, and videocassettes had been used, which, after their consideration had been completed, could not be material evidence. In short, only political will and a desire to punish one another remained here. Punish those who rose in 2001 so that they would not rise in 2002, 2003. By stressing that there is no right to vote, no right to protest, and when a nation is deprived of the right to protest, one claim is that there is a totalitarian regime in Ukraine, a totalitarian system that does not convince dissidents, but that it places them in prison. And while in prison alone, I can clearly say that half the prisoners there are people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u32	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u33	These are people who are being chased by political or economic signs. And before considering the political situation in Ukraine, I declare that we must ask questions about prisoners, about releasing them, and stop pursuing political signs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! The time allowed to announce requests, applications, messages and suggestions is exhausted. Regarding the problems that have been solved, you will be given appropriate instructions to the authorities. Dear colleagues! We are now moving on to our work, according to the schedule of meetings. I'm asking the honourable national MPs to take their seats. We need to vote on one question right now. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. I'd like all the national deputies to come into the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed to meet at the Conciliation Council today at 12.30 p.m. to discuss the political situation in Ukraine. Therefore, in line with the agreement of the Conciliation Council, I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of 12.30 on the political situation in Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:43:14]] For 383 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are now working on the plan. The factions. Dear colleagues, you have a project under consideration. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to pay attention and let us work today without interruption at 12 o'clock. We have so many questions and to make up for our time wasted. Is there no objection? Thank you. The draft Social Services Act is being introduced for your consideration. Reporter - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivan Jakovič Sahan. Please, Ivan Jacobovich. Dear colleagues, the following rules are proposed: For a report of up to seven minutes, answers to five minutes, reports to five minutes, answers to questions to five minutes, discussions to ten minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The functioning of the social services system in Ukraine is becoming increasingly relevant, and it needs to be improved and regulated. The monitoring we carried out showed that today the network of social services institutions is operating in virtually all sectors at both national and non-state levels. The relevant institutions act as subordinates to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health, the State Committee on Sport and Tourism, the Ministry of Education and Science, and other institutions. Our ministry has developed and implemented some of the regulations on such institutions, but today the need for the adoption of the relevant law, which is called social services, is that both the state budget and the local budgets have and should provide for the maintenance of these institutions today, and that it is not only through the system of government agencies that is essential to the implementation of the relevant programmes. The time has come to standardize the social services system by taking in positive experiences in other countries and taking into account the positive gains we have. The bill on social services, which is being considered today, is certainly framework, conceptual. We were unable in the law to fully specify all the social services, all the forms of these services that might be available to the institutions, and take into account the list of all the physical factors that will depend on the order in which these services are provided. However, all these things are defined by other legislative acts or should be regulated by appropriate decrees and decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, the bill sets out basic principles for the provision of social services, organizations, and legal principles for the provision of social services to those in difficult circumstances. In doing so, the adoption of the law opens up the possibility of providing such social services not only through government agencies at the expense of citizens. It enables public authorities, self - government bodies to provide social services not only through the system of government or municipal institutions currently funded by the budget. I would also like to point out that, given the comments made by individual deputies during the discussion of this bill in the former Supreme Council, we have deliberately failed to amend the restrictions on the right to grant or to receive social services only to recipients whose income is lower than the subsistence minimum. As in other countries, we believe that every Ukrainian citizen has the right to social services, who needs help in solving his life's problems without limiting his income, because conditions may vary in different categories of citizens. Another issue is the sources of their funding and the extent to which these services are provided. We believe that the existence of not only a public network to provide social services greatly enhances opportunities and makes it possible to improve quality and extend the scope of social services. In our opinion, the adoption of the Social Services Act will ensure that the social policy of the State is implemented at a modern stage in improving the social services mechanism, financing them, ensuring the state-guaranteed level of social protection of the citizens who need it, also contributing to the development of the network of both state and non-state institutions that provide social services at home in the internal institutions and the involvement of non-state charitable organizations, individual citizens and volunteers. The position of the committee will be informed by the Supreme Council, but in principle it will be positive and accepted in the first reading. I'd like the people's deputies to support the bill submitted by the government for your consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u37	Dear John Jacobovich! Socialist faction, Frost. I'm asking Leonid Vernigor to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u38	The National MP of Vernigor, please, the faction of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u39	Dear Ivan Yakovich, we've been dealing with this problem for a long time. I'd like you all to express your opinion. We still need to create a lot of new mechanisms, new types of services, new offices, new funds. And I counted it this way, and they used to agree that if this were all we were creating, it would add up to the middle limit. To the limit of undersecurity, to minimum maintenance, they'd live better. Now look what we're doing today: we're not giving people a social grant, let's say gas, electricity, until he's at home, including all the queens, all the tiles, and he's going to turn on the subsidy. You and I have come to the point that if anything were to burn down, only a person would have the right to social services. Maybe on the other hand, let's cut the cabana. You know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u40	Thank you, Your Honor Leonid Mikhailovich. Regarding the question that you have formulated, I would like to answer: the subsidy is not social services, it is aid, and social services is something else. The service is what is given to a person in his specific care, whether in a boarding house, or whether he is being assisted in domestic service, medical, legal, social assistance. I mean, it's kind of different things. Thus, the bill does not regulate the subject of subsidies, but it only touches on this area of activity. As for the need to expand the scope of such services. Well, first of all, we're already dealing with a lot of cases today where people have the opportunity, and children have the opportunity to support, say, their parents and sick relatives in a few different circumstances than we can give to our social institutions that are now in the field of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy or other institutions, and if this is a matter for one of the entrepreneurs or two entrepreneurs in the area, and these services will be properly standardized, they should not be below certain standards that the state has imposed on this law, the relevant documents of the Cabinet of Ministers. In our view, this is a positive phenomenon, and what's more, today we have numerous boarding houses that are not state-owned. For example, as a collective company, such buildings continue to be maintained. But accordingly, there are no defined rules for the functioning of such buildings, no defined standards that should be provided for these services. And we believe that the adoption of this law regulates these issues and removes these problems, especially since in the absolute majority of the world, this is how these relations are regulated by both the states and the entities that provide these services. What's more, I'm sorry, one more detail. For example, there are two men in the area who need certain services, persons with disabilities in a particular category. But giving them to the state is not possible, creating a boarding house for two people is impossible. But the budget after the adoption of this law will be able to pay this family the expenses that it could, let's say, target the maintenance of a boarding house, provided that this child or this person is supported by this family. So we're greatly expanding the possibilities to give this spectrum all the help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u41	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear Ivane Yakovich, it comes out of the project that the provision of social services to nonstate entities is made solely on the basis of the granting of a so - called permit and a permit issued by local executive authorities and local authorities is understood. So I have a question, Ivan Yakovich, is it not, or does it not mean that this type of activity is licensed in spite of the Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, where there is no category of services, or social services. And so once again, we're going to introduce one rule that will lead to a leader of this non-state structure who is going to be engaged in such an important, important area of work in government offices, beating himself out of his license. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u43	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich, for asking such a fundamental question. Apparently, there is a conflict between one law that is in force and the bill that is proposed, and it is not really possible to grant these licenses or licenses to engage in this activity for operators. However, I would like to emphasize that it may be extremely important that we do not put this matter in the hands of those people who will then bring this area into something else, where there will be abuse, abuse of these people. We can see now even in the newspapers when a family - type house is being built, where some other processes are taking place. Thus, we feel that this is the course of work that must be licensed. This should not be a type of profitable activity. It must be a work that will really benefit people, not against people. As necessary, we can take these problems into account when preparing for second reading, and I believe that this does not allow for the possibility or the need to remove issues from consideration. And it seems that it can be settled in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u44	National Deputy Masters, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u45	Thank you. National Deputy Masters, faction of our Ukraine, 14th constituency. I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the 2003 draft budget. And there we find interesting things like keeping the social security service from 10 to 25 percent, that's funding to keep these services at that level, and paying them at the same level: the cleaning room is 300 bracelets, the guards are there at the same level. The average wage is 600 bucks. Say, please, how appropriate is that, how fair is that, let's say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u46	I'm sorry, but maybe I didn't quite get the question. The draft budget obviously doesn't have these figures, it doesn't have the wage levels of social workers, but I have to emphasize and agree with you that one of the lowest levels of pay, it's in social workers right in boarding houses, social workers' territorial centres, and this is a constant problem in our dialogue of this category of people. So the question of raising the level of pay and this category of workers and all of the budget workers is really important for people working there who will really invest their souls in this. And with regard to the budget and the level of social welfare, I also agree with you that they cannot satisfy us and that the adoption of this law expands the possibility of involving non-state financial resources to solve social problems, which we believe will also step by step contribute to improving work sanctions in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u47	Thank you, Ivan Yakovich. Time's up. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Secretary of the Committee for Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević is invited to attend. Please, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The task of directing the Supreme Council of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has been considered in the first order by a draft law on social services prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill sets out basic organizational, legal principles for the provision of social services to those who are in difficult circumstances and need foreign assistance. It contains a list of basic types of services and provides conditions and order for their delivery. As to the relevance of this problem of social services and the need to adopt legislation that would regulate this area, the number of requests to me personally as a national MP and to our committee shows. So I want to say that this is an extremely relevant bill. First of all, I wanted to say that this bill, it's of a framework character. And it should be noted that today he has no extra pressure on the state budget of Ukraine. It's important. Because today, in terms of a certain population, if we have the opportunity today and we're going to give appropriate legislation on additional funding for assistance to the population of Ukraine without having real sources of income, these laws will accordingly hang as they hang today without funding in existing legislation. So once again, I emphasize that this law has a certain framework. The other one. What my colleague, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Social Services and Social Support, talked about is a professional activity and it's very important. So the regulation in this area, it has to be and it has to be defined by law. Third. This bill is a generalization of the experience of European countries and of the Baltic countries in providing social services. I want to say that there has been some monitoring by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, our committee, the Cabinet of Ministers about how this law, as similar laws, works in other countries of Europe and, in particular, in the post-Radians countries again, is in Estonia, Latvia, where this law worked very significantly. I want to point out that this law makes a certain incentive to involve non-state funds in the provision of social services. And I'm going to give you an example of this: in Latvia, for example, she's involved in one of the local budgets for social services, and it's enabled her to contribute 17 years of non-state funding to social support for socially vulnerable people. This is a concrete example of how this worked, for example, in Latvia. Next. This law allows the local authorities, namely, the bill sent to the region, it descends to the very people living in the regions, and it is closer to the local authorities. This law allows local authorities to organize these social services on competitive grounds. It's important, and it's important. Because today many public organizations, nonstate funds, nonstate institutions, and just individuals who are willing to work in the social services system do not have an appropriate legislative field, and local authorities do not have a certain legislative arrangement for non - budgetary work related to the provision of social services. I want to say that in Germany, for example, transportation of disabled persons is made up of taking the cost of transporting persons with disabilities, it's made up of public budgets, it's from local budgets, it's from church funds, it's from public organizations, it's from special funds that make up local authorities in terms of solving a particular social problem. For example, I want to set an example like today, literally with the adoption of this law, that it is possible to organize social assistance issues. Today, getting on the train of a German person at a train station, a disabled person, an elderly person, a person who has serious health problems, is practically very difficult. And today, for example, the organization in the social services system, for example, allows it to solve this small or great problem. And that's important. Of course, a very important point is that the bill works to codify a number of existing legislation and regulations that will help to regulate the legal field in the area of social services. I've already mentioned that this bill does not need additional funds from the state budget. But I also want to say that article 7, paragraph 2, provides for an extremely important conceptual position, namely that local budgets should be cost-effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u49	Valery Mikhailovich, how long do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u50	Half a minute. The funds needed to finance the provision of social services should be planned. I've also said that a very wide range of non-state organizations, municipal specialized enterprises can provide social services, and I'm calling today on competitive principles governed by local government. The bill is in agreement with the relevant ministries and departments, also approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour also considers it possible to adopt a bill as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, as far as I can tell, you have a question for the reporter, so please sign up. Please point it on the board. Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear Valery Mikhailovich! This law, of course, may be important, but I have a question for you. In fact, many older ones today need social assistance and social services. How do you think it would be possible, at a legislative level, to include and open stockholders' associations in the Savings Bank of Ukraine, which, by way of cash-free recalculations of those funds that people have on savings books, directed them to treat people, to pay for residential services, and so forth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill regulates the very activities of legal and natural persons, institutions that provide specific social services. The issue of financing, in terms of, well, let's say, as legal persons of the Savings Bank, it can't be the subject of this law. But you're asking an extremely important question, because free funds, they can work in a system of what concerns social services at the regional level, with an appropriate financial tool, like the Savings Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u54	National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u55	Dear Valery Mikhailovich! The need for adoption of this law does not call into question my view that it should be adopted. It will ensure the creation of a legal field in the area of social services. But what causes anxiety, and what causes doubt? This law is a framework law, and you said so. Does this not mean that he can become a declarative law? It's the financial side of the matter. There is concern that this law has not become a paper law. Will it really work? How can we financially ensure that it is implemented? What mechanisms must be put in place to make it actually executed and financially secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that this law works within the framework of the budget provided for by the State budget, the local budgets for the provision of social services. And when we talk about the possibility of effective activity within these funds, we should note that the law allows for the provision of social services on a competitive basis. Today, there are many subjects without this law, legal and physical subjects who provide these social services, not regulated by law. And today, competitive principles for the use of public funds at the local level in relation to these subjects who are professionally capable of providing social services are an important point that will work on this law. That's the first one. Second, I've already said, article 7 of the law provides. Sorry, it's forcing local authorities to plan social services in local budgets today. And this is an important point that can't make this law paper. And the last thing I want to say is that this law provides for and determines the Cabinet of Ministers to work out appropriate normative acts that should work for the provision of social services. He clearly points to the need to develop such acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u57	Puzakov National Deputy, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u58	Mikhailovich, I'm also concerned about Valery's question: will this law work? The reason for this is because, look, most of the pensioners, because I'm from Kirovgrad, I'm worried about the pensioners of Kirovgradstina, and, in fact, the whole of Ukraine is living below the subsistence minimum for today, and they don't know how to pay for utilities, buy drugs and so on. Why is the concern about whether it will work, see: we adopted Supreme Council Resolution No. 2456-111 in 2001 which stated that “no debt sanctions and public service payments should be applied to people whose monthly income is less than the subsistence minimum. But on the ground, the chiefs of public services of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling, in a direct word, are ignoring, and the citizens are intimidated by the courts, water, gas, electricity and so on. I mean, there's a reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u59	Ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u60	There is cause for concern as to whether it will work or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u61	I thank you for asking. I want to say that, in principle, I gave a similar answer to my colleague, but on the essence of, say, non-compliance with Ukrainian legislation or a specific law, we always have fears with you when we adopt those laws. But you know, the motivation of local authorities in providing social services today is large enough in terms of the fact that the State budget, not always the subsidies and subsidies they should receive from the central budget, they receive. And today we need to look for solutions to the social problems of the population on the ground. And by means of a search tool, a tool to implement social support to the population, this law will certainly be for local authorities. It will be working towards a deficit in the social support of the population in the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u62	Valery Mikhailovich, thank you. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. People’s MP Mihovich, ready for Shevchuk, took part in the presentation. Mighovich, the Communist faction, please. Please explain on the table those who signed up for the talk from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u63	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Honorable colleagues, as we can see from the questions themselves, will give birth to a controversial view of the bill under consideration. It is certainly necessary, but in a civilized society. In a poor country, it must be humane, just, social policy, which includes an effective system of social protection, and one of the active mechanisms of social work as an institution. In view of this, legislation on strengthening social protection needs to be adopted first. And providing quality social assistance to the most vulnerable species, which our faction has constantly emphasized. But by supporting the bill together and considering it, he suggests some ways of improving it. First. Give modern scientific interpretation to individual terms and expand their circle, particularly the essence of its social work. The other one. Complementing the principles and standards of social services is a 2 - ha article that includes responsibilities, quality or professional competence, criteria, and so on. They must be nonprofitable, involving both the public and non-state sectors. Third. It is advisable to expand and specify the list of social services so that after some time when the law begins to work, there is no need for it to be complemented, modified, and so forth. Given the diversity, the multifaceted variety of social services, it is appropriate for a catalogue to be approved by not one ministry, but perhaps a government. Four. I suggest you develop an article 5 concerning the general social insurance of this particular type of service. The relevant law in the United States, for example, has been in force since the 1960s. It is important that their expansion and demonization provide, on the one hand, for diversity, for the development of self-sufficiency, for the promotion of charity; and, on the other hand, for the leading role of the public sector in the exercise of civil control. Fifth. I support the conclusion of the Scientific Expert Office on the minimization of subjectivity in the provision of social services. The law is called upon to ensure the high responsibility of those services and workers who provide them. These should be professionals who are undergoing retesting, licensing, and other actions. In the Final Situations, it is appropriate to entrust the government with specific deadlines to develop and make the necessary changes to the qualification manual, educational guidelines, and standards, and other acts, in order to legitimize the guiding principles and determine the responsibility of the subjects for the provision of social services. Finally, I support the draft decision of the Profit Committee of the bill under consideration and its follow-up should foresee and take into account the possible social and political implications of its application in the context of social policy perspectives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u64	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u65	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, the faction of the People's Democratic Party has considered this bill and believes that it has a number of positive points that I would like to stop at. First of all, this bill, which not only gives permission, stimulates the activities of the third sector of NGOs in an important area of charity and humanitarianism. The bill limits the monopoly of state and municipal institutions to a number of services. I would like to remind the Constitutional Court of the importance of paying medical attention. It is now a paradoxical situation where a number of medical services are not provided because utilities do not have the resources to provide them, other structures that could do so are not available, and the bill just allows that niche to be filled with the necessary things. It is not the first time that competitive principles at the national and local levels are allowed to determine the effective distribution of budgetary resources that the bill requires for local budgets for social services. This includes the rights of local authorities to effectively determine the budget and the possibility of involving public organizations in this matter. In addition, the law in some ways stimulates the involvement of non - state and non - budgetary mechanisms in the financing of the merciful, charitable, and humanitarian cause. And we also see in this bill an opportunity to increase the overall quality of social services and competition between providers between social services providers if this bill is adopted. I know that many national deputies work in this area, and they all know very well that sometimes to do something very good, even a good word, you have to have a bureaucrat's permission, and you have to see how the tax administration looks at it. In this case, the bill limits it. Among the shortcomings, it may be said that it would be appropriate for the rights of those who will be provided with social services to be defined more clearly, legally. It's about the rights of patients, the rights of people with disabilities, the rights of children, the rights of people with disabilities. This is an indicator of the state of humanity of our society as a whole of human rights in our country. Therefore, this situation requires a clearer legal work. The NDP faction supports this bill and will vote in favour of its adoption in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u66	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party united. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies! As Secretary of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, I am particularly satisfied that the need for a comprehensive balanced approach to improving labour social legislation does not call into question any political power in this room. And the sad consequences of our neglect or lack of legislation in the social sphere, the very painful to the people of the sphere, can be seen at least in the case of laws on State social assistance for low-income families and on State assistance for families with children. Even now, more than 4 million dollars are missing from the Zaporez Region alone. This problem was discussed by a fellow member of the Labour Ukraine MP and it is therefore very important that in Bill 1065 on Social Services we avoid mistakes and clearly write out sources of social services funding. If there's still funding -- and I quote -- to predict at the expense of the state and local budgets, special funds, enterprise funds, institutions, organizations, social services, charity funds, donations, other sources and so on, and so on, there will be no funding, and instead of the law, we get a declaration about good intentions from the government and from the legislative branch of government. And one more thing. The bill lays down both superficially and carelessly the order of rights and obligations of social services providers and those who support them. Arrangements need to be made for an agreement between local authorities, local authorities, and social services providers. Please remember, my colleague Samuel had a hearing here about the recovery of the children, which was the first time we've talked about this problem. The factory or factory maintains a social, factory or factory that maintains children’s health facilities, factories, or factories to fund the recovery of entire microregions, factories, or factories for all these services, and is expected to pay a value added tax. So in general, the bill has to clearly write down these rules for those industrial enterprises, for those business structures that these social services will provide. Otherwise, I repeat, it will be just a simple declaration. In general, Bill No. 1065, which defines the legal principles for providing social services for those in difficult circumstances, needs foreign assistance, the faction of the SDRP(o) proposes to be accepted as a basis. We will vote for him and invite other factions to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u68	Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska is invited to the performance, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law can have very serious consequences for the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens and, of course, we must pay very great attention to it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are very many inconsistent points in this law that may not work but cause direct moral or material harm to Ukrainian citizens. While article 2 of the Act refers to basic principles for the provision of social services and refers to confidentiality, the responsibility of the service providers, in fact, on the basis of what is laid down in the Act, remains totally ineligible. Moreover, it cannot actually affect the quality of these services, it cannot and will not, in fact, be heard if the law remains in the form in which it is presented to us for discussion. The law does not, first of all, ensure the independence of those who need it and of those who provide it. You and I may have witnessed on several occasions how social services, people who provide such assistance, dictate certain conditions to their trustees, up to political conditions. I have personally encountered during the electoral campaign that people who need social assistance, who almost do not leave their homes, vote in a manner dictated by their employees. I witnessed this: they were called specific names, they were called trustees, they told them who was calling them, what they wanted and, more than they were threatened to do. I believe that this law does not prescribe this protection for those in need of social assistance, to protect them from those who provide it. We know such examples - voters come to me, complain - when social workers, social support workers, demand the trustees to actually contract with them for the will of property, the contract of life, that is, in fact, the employees of those bodies require them to be recognized as direct heirs of those people under their care. I believe that this law should necessarily introduce provisions prohibiting the conclusion of donations contracts and inheritances in favour of the employees of these social services. I believe that it is necessary to introduce a provision prohibiting pressure on trustees and forcing them to act. I would like to say that there is article 8 of this Act, which suggests that, at the initiative of these social assistance structures, these relations may be broken. It's completely out of the question. I believe that the law must have a direct bearing on the point at which such treaties can be terminated. This law does not contain any financial security at all. It is stated in the explanatory note that funding will be budgeted and it is said that it is a service for individuals alone. Again, however, the Explanatory Note refers to citizens in general who need social assistance. The law needs to be clearly defined: who, after all, will have the right to receive this assistance - the lonely people or those who will really need it, including those who have their own families. I mean, I think, Ivan Yakovlevic, your ministry is certainly very interested in this law, and we are also members of the delegation. In order for it to be adopted, it must be thoroughly refined and I believe that it should be attended by representatives of the Ministry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Social Services Act has been completed, regarding the decision we will be making on the day of the vote. The draft Law on the State Biosafety in Creation and Testing and Practical Use of Genetically Modified Organisms is being submitted to your consideration. Reporter: Constantine Mercuryovich Sitnik. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this is the time for consideration: for a report of up to seven minutes, the answers to questions within five minutes, the five - minute report, the five - minute question of the co - reporter, the ten - minute discussion. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Constantine Mercuryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, you know there are a lot of genetics and genetic engineers working today to create new organisms -- genetically modified organisms. In this regard, society has doubts as to the safety of these new modified, plant - based organisms. Are there situations that may arise when the number of diseases, such as allergic diseases, increases? Therefore, all issues related to biosafety worldwide are regulated by legislation in connection with the creation of genetically modified organisms. We've prepared a law for the Supreme Council of last time, it's been considered, it hasn't received a few votes. But that might have been good, because it allowed us to work on this law, and in my opinion, the project that I represent to you today is a good law, although there are still enough flaws that we will certainly take into account on the second reading. I think this law, the draft law is supported by the Ministry of Education and Science, here is the Secretary of State, and he can confirm it. Our health committee has also supported it, and the science committee has offered to accept it. We have worked on the basis of international agreements, and the European Union has issued several directives that regulate biosecurity. Our project provides a legislative basis for a consensus approach by the Ukrainian society on the possibilities for the safe use of genetically modified organisms and, above all, effective control of their distribution. The building of a biosecurity system in Ukraine should, in our view, be based on scientific principles that would guarantee high standards for human health and the environment. We have a lot of work at the National Academy in this direction, so we only relied on the laws of nature. The bill provides for a clear distribution of responsibility between the authorities and responsibility for the unauthorized use of new organisms, as well as a regime for accessing information on the safety of genetic engineering. I can't say that. We are already making a lot of comments about this project, and we are considering it, and with some observations we can already agree today, particularly, with such ones as we need to think, so that there is no position on the commission that is created in accordance with this law, which will act on the basis of its position, and that we should complete the law and that the law is the law of direct action. This bill has also been discussed by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, supported, considered possible in the first reading. And I very much ask you to support this bill so that we can continue to work on improving it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Let's take a look at the board. People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u73	Please give the floor to the national deputy Levka Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u74	Leukyanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u75	Ukrainian Republican Party, Timoshenko Yulia Block Dear Constantine Mercuryovich, I'd like to ask you a few questions. What do Ukrainian scientists know, especially about working in this field of genetic modification in other countries, such as Canada? And the second question. Would you like to hear a little bit more about what our Academy of Sciences is doing in this direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. First question. I know very well that virtually all developed countries today are doing genetic engineering work. Thank you for asking about Canada. Because I had to study in Canada two weeks of scientific development in institutions and in the Canadian government to study laws issued in Canada on biosecurity. I have to say that my deployment at the time, exactly what the Supreme Council did, gave me an opportunity to get to know myself. It must be said that there are also people in Canadian society who doubt that they are really safe, but basically in Canadian society there is a belief that this way of creating new organisms will lead to the normal way that there will be more food in the world, and that the issue of hunger and the lack of adequate food on the planet is felt. As far as our Academy is concerned, I have to say that we have many institutions working in this direction starting with the Institute of Microbiology and finishing up the Institute of Cell Biology and Genetic Engineering. I started working personally 33 years ago in the field of somatic hybridization, which then developed into the work of my student, the Glebe Academy, which continues to work on genetic engineering and creates new genetically modified organisms. He continues in our Institute of National Academy of Sciences at the Institute of Genetic Engineering and Cell Biology, which I have already called, and he is working today as director of this institute, and he is specifically doing scientific laboratory work in the city of Hall of the Federal Republic of Germany. I told you right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u77	National Deputy Kalinchuk faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u78	Thank you. The Honourable Constantine Mercuryovich, Kalinchuk, Clothing, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine Clearly, the implementation of the project’s provisions will contribute to the protection of human health and the environment in carrying out genetic engineering activities in Ukraine. At the same time, it is worth noting that genetically modified organisms refer to life - sustaining factors. A set of measures aimed at eliminating the harmful effects of the human environment is defined by the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemiological Welfare. In this regard, it is not clear how the standards of both laws would be aligned when the draft law was adopted? That's the first one. And the second. Article 9 of the project defines the mandate of the central government of the executive branch of environmental and natural resources. However, the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the establishment of central authorities of the executive branch. According to the Constitution, there are central executive authorities in Ukraine. Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u79	I honestly don't have much control over the law that you call it, and, naturally, you have to agree with it. We're going to pay attention to the disagreements that have arisen with our bill, and in the second reading, we're going to take that into account. As for the second question, let me tell you, this is about executive power and the central authorities of executive power. And what I remember now is that we predict that the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Ecology, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy will be directly responsible for certain activities in the field of biosecurity. In addition, a special commission is created according to this bill, which will determine the daily life in Ukraine with regard to biosafety.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u80	National MP Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u81	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Reverend Constantine Mercuryovich! We discussed this law in detail on our committee, and we recommend it, of course, to accept it. Undoubtedly, in Ukraine, genetic achievement is not a secret. We have great achievements. But it seems to me that I feel that in the hall some national MPs somehow fear that with the adoption of this law we will, on the contrary, open up, let's say for the outside and lose something, too. We'll have plants there that hurt people. They don't understand what it is. please confirm that, on the contrary, the operation of this law has an external opposite meaning. It will help us to bring this protection in order, helping us to fight legally all the negatives that may be present. And it will contribute to the development of genetics. I'm saying it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u82	I think you're absolutely right. Most people in the hall, I think, understand that because there are genetically modified organisms in Ukraine today. In particular, let's say potatoes are resistant to the Colorado beetle and it's very bad that we don't have a law to ensure that there's no such action. In view of the illegality of power and the illegality of our citizens, we need to strengthen the rule of law and create laws that guarantee Ukraine’s undeniably protection from it. And coming to us from abroad. So the issue of customs control is, in my opinion, very well prescribed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u83	Constantine Mercuryovich, time's up. Thank you. From the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Vitaly Stanislavovich Zurawski, will declare his position. Please, Vitaly Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! The Ministry of Education and Science supports this law, the draft law in the first reading, and I think all the possibilities will be to develop it into a second reading. In fact, what the academics have said to Sitnik, we are absolutely in agreement with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! The national deputy Shevchuk was enrolled for the discussion, please. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I did not know why an honorable man of great honor, Constantine Mercuryovich, is the author of this bill as well as the past, which was not accepted in the past. I just realized that he's a scientist, that's part of his work, that's his creative passion. I'm trying to understand you and maybe justify you a little bit. But I cannot fully agree with the content of this bill that you are proposing. But if you don't have an emotion, my dear colleagues, I want to do a little chronology. In January 2001, the Ukrainian Parliament rejected a similar bill, which was put forward for consideration. The faction of the Greens who worked here created such a mini demonstration, explaining the danger of adopting a similar law. In February, the European Parliament voted in favour of adopting new legislation on regulation of the production and circulation of genetically modified products. In June, MEPs accused the relevant UN structures of discriminating right of rejecting genetically modified organisms for the sole purpose of developing civilized so - called states, the United States, and poor countries are destined for a genetically modified future and food. In July 2001, the European Commission published new product labelling rules requiring a change in the designation "may contain" in a clear, more defined place of genetically modified organisms in food. And it's like the drafters of the bill don't notice, they don't know, and they don't know what else they're proposing. In November the world’s public was under pressure from the United States on the government of Croatia for a possible moratorium on these products in that country. In December, Poland stated that it was unable to control products with genetically modified organisms. The United States provides so-called aid to Afghanistan in the form of mainly genetically modified production, with enormous experiments in mind. I'm just surprised at the question of the former Ambassador of Ukraine to Canada, Mr. Lukyanenka, who understands very well that it is Canada and the United States that have spent billions of dollars in research and now they want to occupy it in any way. Recall the Johannesburg summit when civilized nations decided to provide assistance, in paws, to poor countries, in the form of products with genetically modified organisms. Black Africa refused to do so. And now in our Parliament there is a repeat of the bill submitted by the academics, Sitnik. I want to remind you that by the beginning of this year, nine countries — China, Brazil, India, and others — had concluded an agreement to protect against bio-piracy, which today threatens developing countries. Dear colleagues, I cannot, in the absence of time, stop at the content of the law, but I can say that there are two misleading, two misleading statements in the explanatory note. The first is that the Eurocommission. Now, one second, one second. The European Commission has virtually eliminated the moratorium on genetically modified products in Europe. That's not true. In fact, the moratorium works and the parliaments of these countries will continue to consider the relevance of this for at least 18 months. And secondly, this bill has been thoroughly worked out. He's not working, there's only two.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u87	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u88	two articles that, on the contrary, weaken its meaning. I ask the parliamentarians very carefully to come to this bill and think well before voting for its contents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u89	John the hare, the faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u90	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Movement, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! There's a boom of transgenic agronomy in the world, and in the near future, there's transgenic animalry. So far, biotech is mainly focused on technological and etheromaslated cultures. Under transgenic corn, cotton, sugar beet, and rappe, millions of acres are occupied. Although not in large areas, such food crops are cultivated, such as potatoes. But no one will say exactly how much potatoes are used for food and how much is used for starch or livestock. The barrier to the non - acceptance of new technologies will not work. The emergence of new technologies and new products is linked to fundamental research at cellular and molecular levels that have spurred the development of new methods of genetic modification. These methods provide extensive opportunities for new biotechnological processes, for the creation of new drugs, and for the expansion of the range of products. It's a double-edged sword. Therefore, a national system of biological safety needs to be put in place as a matter of urgency. Who today will guarantee that some part of genetically modified production does not come true in our roars? Not to be overlooked is the fact that countries with economies in transition have lost not only outdated technologies and equipment but also the most modern to obtain statistics. In recent years foreign biotech companies have been active in implementing such technologies in Ukraine. All these activities should be strictly regulated, particularly at the legal level. The proposed bill should initiate the process of creating a system of biological safety. So this bill has to be supported, you don't have to think that if we close our eyes, there's nothing going on around us, there's nothing going on. At the same time, I have a number of comments on the bill presented for our consideration. First. The bill covers an overly wide range of issues related to genetically modified organisms, which I believe should be regulated by individual laws. In this way, scientific activities related to the acquisition of new combinations of genetic material should be divided in a protective environment that prevents contact with the population and environment, including bioethics and practical activities related to the commercial use of genetically modified organisms and products derived from them. Second, there is a need for substantial development and harmonization of the powers of the central executive authorities in the field of human health and the environment for the use of genetically modified organisms and products derived from them. It raises doubts about the proper creation of an inter-agency commission on biosafety as a special authority responsible for the security of genetic engineering, which is essentially a superstructure over other central executive bodies. Is there a ministry for that purpose? Therefore, the position of the committee is that this bill should be finalized, and we propose to the draft decision the following point: the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, together with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, to work on the draft bill, taking into account the observations and proposals made by the Ukrainian People's Deputies and to re-read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u91	National MP Nikolaynko, head of the committee, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready, nigger. From where? Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u92	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. I want to say that the doubts expressed by the National Deputies Sergei Shevchuk, John the Rabbit on the adoption of the Biosafety Act, they are known to the members of the Committee on Science and National Education, and we share all of these without concern, and even more so we say that we had them, these objections, even more. So we took this law very seriously, we invited serious experts, particularly a member of the Academy of Sciences of the Ukraine Blum, and we listened to Kurdhum's academics, other leading experts, and their attitude towards this law. And we think that just in order for all the concerns that Sergey Shevchuk was talking about to be removed, we still need to adopt this law so that we can normalize all the aspects of activity, such as the use of genetic engineering, high technology, biotechnology, and so on, the use of transgenic plants. Ukraine cannot close its eyes to the so-called green revolution that is taking place in the world, to the active use of genetic engineering and so forth. We think it's very good that this law contains standards for protecting consumers' rights to safe food, marking it. For example, academic Kordum expressed such doubts that there was a danger of interference with the work of scholars of the interdisciplinary commission, controlling various organs. We're going to take these moments off. But we do think that in order to somehow normalize these processes that are taking place in the world to establish strict control of the circulation of genetically modified organisms, we think this law is necessary. As for working with the Committee on Ecology, the proposal made by Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, I think we will not deny and work together on this law, we will take into account all the observations that have been made here today and which are still there. But we believe that in the first reading it could be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u93	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u94	Honorable national electorate, or perhaps a prisoner. Let me also share my thoughts. The less you have, the easier it is to share. I also have some doubts and not so much about the bill as about genetically modified products. What Deputy Sitnik is proposing is a step forward. It might be better to have a biosafety system than not to have it at all when genetically modified products are available. So this is a step in the right direction. But it's not just about biosafety, it's about genetically modified products, it's about asking questions about rejecting them, it's about banning genetically modified products. And this should be the next step in solving this problem. And, I think that our Parliament should take a stand on this issue. But what can be done? I think it was very wise for Deputy Nikolainko to say after a very wise saying by the representative of the Hare, and Deputy Shevchuk wisely said, but too wisely Shevchuk, and here a compromise was found. Perhaps we really need to adopt this bill, but given that it's not fit anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u95	Mikola Shulga, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u96	The Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, today we are discussing, perhaps at first glance, such a slightly over-intellectual law. But what I'm saying is that this is a law that applies to the poor, and we have, as you know, a country of the poor. We can't stand to use genetically modified products. They already are. And because we have our market as a whole, I mean, broadly in Ukraine, and they, these products are not being regulated in any way right now. We don't know what these products are, we don't know where they came from. Clearly, powerful transnational companies are interested in testing such products for the poor. They are, of course, much cheaper than those that grow naturally without modification. In this regard, I believe that we must adopt a law, another matter that needs to be improved about what we have already said to me, here I agree. I agree with those who have already made such comments. I have a few remarks, but one thing I want to say. It refers to the labelling of products, organisms. It seems to me that it is necessary to write a separate article explaining to the population what this is. Because people don't know what it is. And if we even stamp it. Nothing will change from that. I think we should put this in a separate article. In general, we need to protect ourselves from the free movement of illegally modified products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u97	Constantine Mercury Sitnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! I am very grateful to everyone who has spoken here, and the one who has not spoken, I see, supports. I am particularly grateful to Sergey Volodymyrovich for giving examples, as it were, of a negative plan. I think he knows very well that we know all about what he said and knew before. We have more material than he has given us about the fact that there really is a conflict in the world. But he did not say that the Colosseum, particularly the one on which modern pesticides have brought great woe to mankind, and there have been many poisonings, beginning with DDT and ending with many and many pesticides. And the chemical magnets of the world don't want biologically new organisms with new qualities, and they also work to create an atmosphere of mistrust in the world. Scientists should really explain, show, and protect the positive aspects of genetic activity. Therefore, I am grateful to those, particularly the Ministry, which supports us, for saying, "In our view, the adoption of the draft law will create conditions for creating a transparent and reliable security system for importing state testing, registration, use, storage, transport, destruction of non-useable organisms, will contribute to ensuring that the country's population is provided with high-quality food products, reducing the use of chemical plant protection products." This is how we approach systematically, how we take everything into account, the Ministry of Education and Science, which is the curator of all this work, and which has also studied this issue very deeply. So I'm asking each of you very much. Think, consider, and vote for this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft law "On State Security in Testing and Practical Use of Genetically Modified Organisms" has been finalized. As far as the decision is concerned, we'll decide when we vote. A draft law on personal agriculture is being introduced. The profile committee suggests that it review the bill within 30 minutes. We're about to go to the next question. Reporter: Agrarian Politics Minister Sergei Mikolaiovich Ribuk In five minutes. I'll ask you in five minutes. Correspondent: 5 for the speech, 5 for the questions. And 10 minutes for discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In order to define the legal, organisational and socio-economic conditions for the functioning and further development of private agriculture in Ukraine as a form of personal or family activity of citizens, the Cabinet of Ministers has prepared a draft Ukrainian Law on Personal Agriculture. In accordance with President of Ukraine's decree on urgent measures for acceleration, reforming the agricultural sector of the economy, some 800,000 peasants have now received their own rations in kind, thereby expanding their support holdings and owning their own farms without creating a legal person. This process has a trend toward further growth. In Ukraine, there are 12 million 800,000 families or, we say, courtyards that use land areas totalling 9 million 700,000 hectares -- that's 25 and a half percent of our nation's productive land. More than 58 percent of such farms, including more than 70 percent of livestock, have a drinking weight in the production of gross agricultural products. Article 33 of the Ukrainian Code of Land states that Ukrainian citizens may have property rights and lease land for personal agriculture, which is used in accordance with the law. Therefore, the Personal Farmers Act establishes that land plots of up to 2 hectares are used for the management of individual agriculture and are transferred to or provided for the use of citizens and associated land free of charge resulting from the breeding of collective property enterprises. The bill defines that personal agriculture is a form of activity of a natural person, conducted by him or her personally or together with family members, who conduct a business without the creation of a legal person on land owned or provided for the use of citizens for these purposes in accordance with the legislation and the use of property acquired in accordance with the law for the purpose of satisfying personal needs through the production, processing and consumption of agricultural products and the realization of their surpluses. This project determines the composition of the property of the individual farm, its uses, its rights, its duties, and its order. Personal farm accounts will be made by rural, rural, city councils at the location of the land. The draft law also provides for State financial support to individual farmers. The Cabinet of Ministers is to determine in the budget the corresponding costs for these purposes each year and within the overall scope of the expenditure of the central executive body on agrarian policy. The draft law also sets out the social insurance conditions for members of the private agriculture sector, their pensions, and the provision of various forms of social assistance, including subsidies. In particular, it has been established that members of private agriculture belong to the occupied population, but when their work in this farm is the main and calculated monthly income from holding a private farm is equal to or greater than the minimum wage. The calculated monthly income from farming is determined in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear National Deputies! State and financial support, social guarantees and pension insurance for members of private agriculture will contribute to the development of rural employment, improve its material status, contribute to rural development, reduce social tensions in rural areas, and provide food for the population and social stability of Ukraine. The bill is supported by the Supreme Council Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations and we ask you to support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u101	Please sign up for questions. Light up, please. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, next to Yavorowski. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u102	Thank you. Sergei Mikolaiovich! I have a request. You were talking about this bill writing out the relationships between private agriculture and pension insurance. Yes, more clearly: what is the position of this bill in the relationship between the Pension Fund and the members of the private agriculture? Because today we can't call it normal: 600 million we get into the Pension Fund, and 6 billion we get out of the Pension Fund. It won't last that long on these parities.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u103	Thank you. Of course, if the bill becomes law, it will mean, first of all, that the individual farm has the status of an agricultural enterprise, but without the creation of a legal person. And on two hectares of land, your family needs to work hard, and today, I said, up to 70 percent of the production is given by these very farms. So if they have the right legislative status, they're going to need to be in the Pension Insurance Act, in other normative acts, to make the right changes, and so that these farms and family members, first of all, have the status of a working population, not the unemployed, because many work very hard and feed themselves and the people, not as working people. And according to the busy category of people, he'll have the right to a pension. But in this law you will not write it, you will have to make appropriate changes to both the budget and other legislative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u104	Yavorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, next to Lechchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u105	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Our Ukraine. Your Honor, I support this bill in every way and I'm going to speak, and I think it's absolutely necessary. But I can't understand one thing. Article 4. "Earthly areas of private agriculture." First. "For personal farming, no more than two hectares of land is used." What's going on? In Kirovgrad, about four and a half acres [4 and a half ha] of pies, in Winnitzkin it is about three and eight tenths, in Cherkishka. And we immediately throw out the legal field of this law, we throw out the basic array of Ukrainian agriculture, these two hectares are exposed as a red line that can't be entered.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u106	Thank you. It's really too much of a principled question. Without determining the size of the farm, of course, it is not possible to continue to have a conversation and others to establish normative factors. Because if there are more than two hectares, and now there are many cases where 50 or more hectares, but without creating a legal person, you realize that there is no proper calculation, there is no tax, there is no fixed tax, there is no land used, there is production, and there is no law enforcement, there is no financial, there is no economic act. That is, if not confined to the area, there will be an immediate transfer of land to a private farm, a legal person will not be created, even legal persons may fall apart. And so, we can have a big conflict. If more than two hectares [two ha], this law provides that a farmer is then obliged to create an enterprise on a general basis, to register as a legal person, and to work as other farmers, private enterprises, and so forth. Or give up the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u107	Have a seat, Sergey Mikolayovich. For the purpose of the report, Lechenko Volodymyr Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, gives the floor to Lechchenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u108	Vladimir Leschchenko, Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations reviewed the draft Law on Personal Agriculture, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and found it impracticable. Personal agriculture is currently playing an important role in providing farmers with jobs and food, as well as in providing large quantities of food for the country’s food market. Further development of private agriculture requires the resolution of a number of organizational economic and social issues, their legal status. The project defines the rights and responsibilities of members of individual farms, their composition, conditions for land use, and the employment, pension, and social insurance. The main directions for supporting individual rural farms at both national and local levels are also foreseen. While appreciating the bill as a whole, the committee believes that its individual positions should be further elaborated on the bill. For example. The boundaries of the land area, as already discussed in the answers to questions, are two hectares in size, not taking into account the fact that the vast majority of Ukrainian peasants received or acquired land on a ration of more than two hectares [two ha]. Many of them intend to work on their own, that is, to run a private farm. What if there are several such pies in the family? By the way, in article 4, that's exactly what this is about. And there is a clear contradiction between these articles. Many peasants had previously had small areas, and they were now joined even in a separate array of other areas. What, then, can we do? If article 2 of the bill does not extend the bill’s operation to substantiate areas, article 2 of the bill does not extend it. Article 3 refers to a written agreement between family members or a couple of property. This factor, in our view, will be aimed at disuniting families on a material basis. In addition, he needs additional funds for notary services. Family property should be shared. Article 6 states that agriculture is a legal person. In order to avoid this in this article, instead of the term "rural farming," it would have to apply the term "citizens." For example, article 6 “The Rights and Duties of Citizens in Personal Agriculture”. And so on. This, by the way, is referred to in the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Scientific Research Administration. Part three of one article 6 gives the right to use useful fossils for your own purposes. What Are Your Own Needs? He can also sell these useful fossils to meet his own needs. In part four of paragraph four, one article 6 again refers to a written agreement between members of the individual agricultural holding. In addition, the drafting of part one of article 2 of the project had to be aligned with part one of article 33 of the Ukrainian Land Code, which stipulated that Ukrainian citizens could have property rights and lease land for private farming. It raises a big question of how to provide financial support to these farms through credit unions and agricultural cooperatives. Once again, these funds will go through the middlemen. In general, the Committee believes that the adoption of this law will ensure the protection of the interests of citizens who carry out their activities in private agriculture, their employment, improve material conditions, reduce rural tensions and improve the provision of food for Ukrainian citizens. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! If you'd like to enroll in with a co-rapporteur. Please point it on the board. Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u110	Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich, please tell us whether you have, or are in the Ministry of Honor, the technical equipment of supporting peasant farms. Let's see what tools they have in the nomenclature. I mean the soap, the substitute and the pour, the rakes, the tractors, the combines, and not only in the nomenclature, but also in the quantity expression. If such data is available, and remember that we are now in the 21st century, what is the productivity in these farms? Is it all through the predatory waste of our peasants ’ health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u111	Dear Sergey Ivanovich, I fully agree with your assessment of the state of individual agriculture at this time, and I think that at the state level it would be necessary to study this issue carefully and assist the peasants in small techniques so that they can mechanizedly process these areas up to 2 hectares and so on. But I have to tell you that the provision of private agriculture by technology, other resources, was not the subject of the bill, so we didn't study on the committee. Perhaps there are statistics in the Committee on Statistics and probably in the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. We don't have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u112	Gennady Udovenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u113	Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich, I'm impressed by your report, your position in the defense of agriculture, and, yes, I'm sorry, but I think you can change your badge to the Supreme Council badges, so your position is in line with the Supreme Council. And now, essentially, the question. The one-man farms, which in Soviet times were called individual farms, basically provided for the Soviet people and republics, all provided these individual farms. And that's right, we have to take care of them, we have to protect them. The question is. You're talking about some doubting the ownership of beneficial fossils on the land of the owner of the farm. But it's his property and what's on top of it should belong to this landlord. Why are we afraid? And one last question. Still, is there a known share of the owners of private farms in the production of food for the Ukrainian market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u114	Dear Gennady Josephovich, you realize that all these useful fossils, the nadra and so forth, are property of the Ukrainian people and should probably be used in accordance with other laws that regulate this issue. As far as fate is concerned. Yes, by the way, with the Soviet authorities, as you say, the people of the Soviet Union were providing food to the Soviet people, just collective agricultural enterprises - the collogies and the raspberries. At the time, their fate was small. It is now that the colosophies and rados are broken down, the fate of the listed farms is great. I'm calling. The volume of production of these farms in total is now more than 58 percent, of which is the production of plants 49.6, the production of animals is 72.3. Individual farms have become the main producers of potatoes, vegetables, fruit - bearing products, and more than two thirds of the basic animal meat, milk, and eggs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u115	Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich, I listened carefully to your report and pointed out that your comments on the project coincided with what I was going to say during the speech. You know that the law should regulate rights and obligations and guarantee these rights and obligations. You rightly pointed out that in article 4, there is a serious contradiction between the status of the individual farm and the status of the legal person. He started commenting on this, giving an answer to Yavorowski, Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribubuk, but he didn't answer completely, he didn't pay attention to this contradiction; it was set up here. Article 6 contradicts the two codes and the Nadar Law today. Other articles do not provide clarity on the regulation of legal relations: what law, for example, may still consider the rights and obligations of citizens, and so on. In other words, when such a law is needed, it is so legally raw and imperfect that it cannot be adopted in the first reading. I think the committee would be here if it were to be predetermined.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u117	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, well, your remarks really are right, and I've talked about it. But I reported to the committee, and the committee had just proposed that the bill be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u118	Yes, thank you. Question time's up, let's move on to the draft law. Please highlight those who sign up from the rostrum. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Pavlovsky. Dear colleagues, I ask you to strictly follow the rules, we have the following question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u119	My dear colleagues, I think we all understand that the basic Ukrainian issue lies in the plane, the solution to it, in the plane of the agricultural sector itself. We are both married to God and fate as a powerful agrarian country. And what we didn't become today is just the guilt of all of our powers, including the Supreme Council. That law that is being proposed today, frankly, I would like to say a good word in general to the committee, which is finally starting to take some real steps in translating our agrarian sector into a market relationship. I mean, the very idea, the mood itself, I think we should support it. But I think there's a lot going on in this direction that's very unprofessional. This bill should generally be fundamental today. We understand very well that the cologne is broken today, practically with the farms, and so far, Ukraine has suffered a disaster -- they're all ruined and destroyed. Instead, there are perhaps a few early structures that can be hailed as new structures. This is, for example, Leonid Jacoboshin’s farm. As it got on its feet, it's another question, but it's a powerful agrarian complex today. This is what John Rudik, who was also a national deputy here with us, is doing today. And what Vladimir Bortnik is doing today, or our colleague Cemistranko. But it's literally a unit, it's a drop in the sea. Because of this, the law would seem to have looked at the base of the Ukrainian village. We understand very well how it was destroyed in the twentieth century: the self-determination of thinking, the originality of thinking, the courage to make the decision of a peasant, it was decided by others. This law would seem very necessary, for it can guide us again, let's say, the same hunting farm that it once offered at the beginning of the century, and we know how it ended. One word, the very idea of this law is very and very progressive. A peasant is afraid to go to all these circuits, and here he has the opportunity to gather his family and start farming somehow to feed his family and sell the surplus. All of this is in the law. However, I cannot and will not vote in favour of this law and I ask you not to support it, because in addition to everything that Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz said, another thing is laid down -- these two hectares of land. I understand the minister very well, who says that if there is more, there is already a legal person there. But today there are pies, so please tell me, if Grandma's sliced up four and a half acres of land, what, she should keep two acres and take two acres and give it to someone if she has a family and she has a son who can come out of town and work here? I think these scissors, these two acres, I'll never vote for it. You have to look, go out, or go out to the extent of that pie that in a particular region, let's say, cut and walk away from it, or you have to extend the scope of that law. Otherwise, if we accept it in this way, we're just going to do a big bad thing for a peasant today, it's going to be a paper law that won't protect any of this one person or family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u120	National MP Mikhailo Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, prepare Kirilchuku, Block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I immediately answer whether I have a bearing on agriculture. In my memory, every tree, every chicken, and tax paid were copied when they came. Trees don't produce, or you live far away from the road, you don't take them into town, you don't sell them, and people took the axes into their hands, and they cut down these trees, they destroyed them, so there's nothing to keep them from paying taxes. Today, by the way, this same model is set up here: they're coming, they're calculating your revenue. It's either a tree or not, and you should, and it's already in your income. Whether you sell or not, it's already written here. I mean, as far as help is concerned, it's so optionally written. What used to be cooperatives, it's all written that needs to be restored. It is to restore it, which is the help of the people. So obviously, the article, I'm going to go on with Yavorowski, here's about the previous article, and now we're starting with articles 6.7.8, and I'm going to tell you straight to make it worse in agriculture for the peasants, so they put it here. The peasants were always robbed. You're not going anywhere, but they've put it back in here and they won't let it breathe. You have to do what you do about small businesses and small businesses, you have to set up a single tax, and you have to set up a pension fund and everything you need, and there will be no problem. The only tax on land is to be distributed here. Or write down the norm, see, make a treaty according to the law. Make a deal that you'll grow up, that you'll get it. And he's not really a legal person. What is more, such an interesting norm in the law is written, which in general, why this law. The law may also establish other rights and obligations of the individual farmer. I'm reading, I'm looking for other rights, there's no other duties. I mean, that's what you want. Well, who says so in the law? It's a law of other rights. Thus also the law is written for this purpose, that there be a law of direct action, that all that is here should be written. So this second part of the aid needs to be developed specifically. Because look how it's written, it's going to be a certification center coming, and the firemen will come, and this uncle's got bread under the straw. They say no. Fire rules do not satisfy the fine because the law states that it must satisfy all standards. What's more, it's the quality of the right product, and it's got nothing to do with the Colorado bugs and these other pests, yes, pests, pests and what to do. So this is where a former minister sits in the environment, quality, sanitation, environmental standards, which are sanitary standards when there is no technique. So this law will do more than benefit. So he's raw, he can't be accepted. It's a good idea for law, but there's no law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u122	People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! Perhaps few of the national deputies in this room will say that such a law is not necessary for peasants. Yes, it's been necessary for a long time, because those presidential decrees that have done terrible damage to agricultural production in Ukraine, with a state that could produce 60 billion dollars of produce and provide one of our agriculture with our state budget at the level that it is today. But apart from the calculation of this law, there is virtually nothing of value to a peasant. That is, the organization of the activities of personal support companies, or you who have received the pies, is virtually undecided by this law. Each landowner must be protected by valuable legislation. But I emphasize that such a law can't be passed even in the first reading, it has to be re-readed and that's why. Use of land no more than 2 hectares. Most deputies have already mentioned this. Well, where do you think he's got 2.2 acres of pie? Or the wife and husband received two pies. What about them? How can they be formed? How to Count? How Can I Report? The other one. An authorized person from such a farm. Nothing is specified as to the rights and duties of the individual except that he is to be at least 18 years of age. Or something like that. Use of useful fossils. Alexander Aleksandrovich had already emphasized sand, prune, and other useful fossils. What, and he can get oil? It's too much. contravenes other existing legislation. Article 6, paragraph 2 He is obliged to make arrangements for peasants. What do we owe him? How does this covenant not benefit him, and what do we owe him? There's another contradiction here. The right of a legal person. Why not give this family, which has 4 pies, to consider it a peasant farm and have a legal personality if the farmer wants it? Please. He doesn't want to be a farmer, and he wants to be a farmer and be a legal person. Give me that right. Why, for example, do we not give this law the right to unify farmers? Is he with you? With his property. And that's the fate of this society to receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u124	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u125	I'm done. As a result, I feel that there are very large numbers of comments. It takes a lot of work. Because of this, I propose a rereading of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u126	National Deputy Alexandrovsky, Communist faction. Get ready for Frost. Dear colleagues! Time's up, and we've got three speakers left. I think we're going to finish this consideration, and then we're going to move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law, unlike the many other projects that we are considering with you, does not clearly define the purpose of the bill. Nothing is said here, for what purpose we are asked to enact this law, whether to protect the agricultural producer in the country, whether to improve their efficiency, there is absolutely no mention of this here. And it is not surprising, because in fact, I believe that the main purpose of this law is to legally define the employed population of those who have land supplies today, those who are in the countryside today. That's the first one. Second. Of course, there is a desire to expand the tax base. And it is not surprising that 2 hectares are limited to the amount of land that rural households can enjoy. Actually, it's not more than two acres today, really. Today, land rations are practically non-existent. Five, seven, eight, nine acres. What is the result of such a standard? To the extent that either people have to voluntarily give up part of the land, they have to return to rent, or they really have to split these land supplies in some way, give them up, give them up, give them over, and so on. I believe that the third position that is being seen, the goal of the return that is reflected in this law, is, of course, the desire of government officials, government structures to make life as easy as possible by depriving themselves of responsibility for the millions of people living in the countryside today, live at the expense of their own household. And I believe that the adoption of this law will actually sanctify the transition to life on the basis of the natural economy of many thousands, many hundreds of thousands of families. Most importantly, this law will in fact establish their lives in the area of natural agriculture, the natural economy, which is highly labour-intensive and low-efficiency. I want them to think, could a young person who has grown up in this family and who has even received an education be able to escape this natural farm? Of course not. Priori will be defined as a person employed, he will not have the right to State support for employment because he does not fall under the definition of unemployed. This law does not refer to the social protection of the people who will run this natural economy. Social insurance and pension insurance are mentioned here as saying that their State social insurance for their families will be carried out in accordance with the law. What legislation? How? The same applies to pension insurance. How will these people receive pensions? I believe that this law should in no way be adopted; we must, at best, re-read it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u128	Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! We talked to Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk about the necessity of adopting such a law, and I fully supported this idea because I think that, indeed, those working on the ground should implement their legal relations on the basis of the law. However, this law only confuses these legal relationships; it does not give anything to people who work on earth. It appears that it was written by the farmers, who mainly write in the cabinet that process the land. You can't write a law like that. What should this peasant project, who lives in a village, be given, say: How will you protect your rights with regard to land, with regard to the relationship within this personal farm, with regard to the relationship with neighbors, for example, through cooperation, with regard to the realization of your produce, with regard to relations with the State? And when we see that there's a contradiction between the Forest, Water and Earth Code, between the Civil Code, the contradiction between the individual laws, that means that we're trapped, that we're running this peasant. He will never protect his rights. So my suggestion, I'm not going to go into detail, because there were already remarks here, Sergey Mikolaiovich, about the content of these separate articles. I just want to say that even from the point of view of legal engineering, you can't write in the law like this: "A small amount of personal agriculture can be owned by one person, a common, partial property of its members, a common compatible property of a marriage according to the law or a written agreement between them." If a written agreement between them is the basis of legislation, or the norm of legislation, then it should be written like this. Either yes or so, the law does not spell out the same as the other many regulations. I repeat. Regarding the relationship with the Pension Fund, regarding social insurance and other things, all the links have been made. According to the legislation, or according to the instructions of the Cabinet of Ministers he's developing, that means that we're once again putting the law above the law, and it's creating a whole series of massive violations of people's interests through corruption, because of solving other issues, it's not for the benefit of the peasant who works on the ground. I support the proposal made here by Kirilczuk and others, and we need to seriously develop this project and re-examine it for first reading. This document I was looking at in Holland, it's a book. And this is where they wrote a draft or a blueprint for a few pages, and we think that's what we've done to protect the peasant. You can't do that, and I'd like to be careful when voting under this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u130	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Tomich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u131	Dear National Deputies! The Law on Personal Agriculture should also be adopted in this, I think we should have no doubts. But I agree with the deputies who spoke to me: not the way he was presented. We really need to cherish the idea that has been put into the bill, to work on it, but we need to adopt the law, and we need to settle the relationship that relates to the land. Essentially, in legislative activity, the Hippocratic rule is "no harm" and the main rule in the nation's activities is "do not disturb." If we stick to it, we will be grateful to our electorate. So from the point of view of the damage, I share the idea that the land needs to be extended to the size of the pie. There is no need, no need for regulation, no need to detail these relationships, no need to impose a single tax on land and place it on land. And, of course, we have to provide social insurance. If we do, we will not harm. Now, about help. Besides "no harm," we have to try to help. Each legislative act should help someone, and that is what our constituents expect of us. Thus, with regard to aid, the most important, most serious novelty in the bill is the novel on financial support for the individual land. I think it's very important. The government, and we legislators, are committed to supporting financially. But this is a declaration here, and we need to make it clear how personal agriculture can be financially supported. Questions of technology, mini-technicals, issues of fertilizer, many of the issues that need to be addressed, including legislatively, the Supreme Council and at the level of government. If these proposals are taken into account, I think we will adopt this law. Now I share the idea that it might be necessary to send him back for a second first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u132	Ivan Fedorovich Tomic, head of the committee, please. Out of the way, huh? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u133	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I wanted to draw your attention to the article on the 4th where the discussion began. The point is this. The language goes for two hectares, which were allocated to rural agriculture according to the decisions of the district councils, that is, the land of private agriculture, and their integration into the established law free of charge as a result of the in-kind receipt. the local land share of the pie, plus these two hectares of the land share of the pie. This is in line with the Codex Earth. And there are no contradictions to this earth. I share the concern that today, what is the situation in the agricultural sector. I'm a supporter of commercially competitive forms of farming. But let's look at the real situation. Today, 800,000 have joined their own landslides — over 2.5 million of our citizens. And to this day, we don't even want to legislatively support these people who produce a lot of especially laborious products, especially animal-oriented products. The law, indeed, prepared by the government, is bad, but it can be seriously developed into second reading and have a normal law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on Personal Agriculture has been completed. With regard to the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote. Let us turn to the next question. Next is the question of the political situation in Ukraine. I'd like to tell you, my dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we've agreed to take 45 minutes to consider this issue, which is the normal regime. For question initiators, five minutes from factions and groups for three minutes. In total, it'll be 45 minutes with a slight, obviously, deviation. So the word is given to Alexander. Just a minute. It's Yuri Carmazin's procedure. One moment, Alexander Alexander. Please, National Deputy Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u135	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine, the Party of Supporters of the Motherland Solidarity. Dear Mr. Head! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I thank you at all for these hearings. But you understand that 45 minutes for 450 deputies is absolutely nothing. Listen to the opinions of faction leaders, and we hear them in the media or in the media. We need to listen to more than just the opinions of the faction leaders, but we need to have at least 450 deputies. Let them express themselves as much as they can. First. It's different. We need the government manager and all the ministers to sit here. Since they're gone, technically and physically they can't be, there's an offer to look at it in two of these periods. This is the first period -- to now discuss, then to set up a commission to finalize the documents, and then to invite the President, the Prime Minister, everyone else, and to continue the conversation with the production of a specific document to come out of the crisis. Thank you for your attention. But I would ask you to vote or support it within a reasonable consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u136	Dear colleague! It was at the meeting of the Conciliation Board that I suggested this approach, but I did not receive support. It was definitely determined on the Conciliation Council that about 45 minutes. I'm doing the Conciliation Council's will. If you insist, I'll put this to a vote. That's it. I insist on the insistence of the People's Deputy Karmazin. Then suggest what procedure should be. Please, Karmazin. How much time do you need, please? Turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u137	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'll say it again. Just like we accepted the Constitution. The question is the life and death of Ukraine. Do you understand or not?Oh, my God! In 11 years, we did not go down below. Therefore, time cannot be saved. We have to work at least a period of time, although two hours, call, wait, contact the President. So I'm asking, let's focus today on this issue. Well, after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u138	It didn't work out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u139	I mean to the end. Three hours to deal with the issue, set aside. This is the first step. And the second step is to appoint the President and the head of government and all the ministers to.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u140	Thank you. The offer is understood. Please, National Deputy Kravchenko, Communist faction. Now, one minute, wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u141	Kravchenko, the Communist faction. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, really, let's do it. The agenda is “under a reduced procedure”. Well, we're going to be looking at this crucial political issue for 45 minutes, then we're going to be pushing from the rostrum, turning off the microphones. It's going to be inappropriate. That's why there's a proposal. Until the end of today, continue to consider this so that the question of what should be done to prevent the debate and so forth is not raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u142	I mean, until 2:00? Thank you. Your offer is clear. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u143	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this question has been referred to the Conciliation Council and I think we should take this time to consider it. There are factions' heads, there are initiatives. Let them, according to your rules, express it. And there's someone who's signed up for this moment who's entitled to say the same thing. Taking a risk, and this will be the time it takes to discuss the matter. Because we've already had such a practice that we're taking very serious questions, we're moaning as we did yesterday, we've had three questions, we've raised one question, and we've had three bills. So I suggest we figure out the time like this. There are initiators -- five minutes, there are factions heads -- how many minutes you've said and there are those who sign up for this moment. Take risks and listen to them all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, this one. I'm asking for your attention! The third sentence is understood, John the Rabbit, and I'm going to put it to a vote. By this time, 25 national deputies had been registered. Maybe more than that, there's just no space on the computer, on the display. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Yuri Carmazin's proposal to hold a discussion of the matter over the course of time. in two sessions with the invitation of the leaders. the government, the head of government, as well as the President of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please make up your mind. [[12:47:13]] For-191 Z minus 191, in factions. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I think this proposal is the most real of the people's MP Kravchenk. I put to the vote to take the time to listen to this question for a break of 14 hours. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please make up your mind. I think it's worth supporting us to do this kind of work. [[12:47:48]] For 303 For -303, the decision is made. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, the rules are defined by the initiators -- five minutes from the factions -- three minutes from the factions, the rest -- we're going to take the people's deputies to the speeches according to the order of the record. Is there no objection? At 14 o'clock, we'll finish the question. Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! What characterizes today’s political situation most? If I'm going to talk about the systemic crisis in Ukraine, and it is, I'm going to have to talk about a lot of macro indicators. In a few minutes, I will ask the vast majority of our voters to help me with my arguments. Say, good people, do you have a steady job and a decent salary? Your pensions are fair, they allow you to survive? Do you have the ability to account for the budget? Can you give a good education to your children? Why would she do that, because you can't find jobs anyway? You're living better today than you did yesterday? Do you see a prospect for your children and for yourself? Are you sure about tomorrow? For all of these and many other similar questions, more than 80 percent of the population today will say no. And you, your honors, know that very well. You also know that despite propaganda, there is no real economic growth, a balanced, man-centred country in Ukraine. This year, for example, GDP has doubled, it's statistics. You know, the structural distortion of the economy and its tinnilation and criminalization are deepening, that the continuation of such a course leads to a catastrophe that can't live like this and can't wet anymore, that's not acceptable. Realizing this has brought together the supporters of the left and right parties today. There is the consolidation of society, the formation of a nation, the formation of a nation. It's wonderful, in this rescue of Ukraine. As opposition representatives, in two months, we passed dozens of cities, met hundreds of thousands of fellow countrymen face-to-face. They come under different flags, but it doesn't annoy anyone -- they share a common understanding of the threat to Ukraine. This irritates the authorities because they want to continue to divide people into political, territorial, linguistic, ethnic, religious, age - old, and divide and pillage the state. You know it is. This is called privatization, licensing, tariff, customs, and so on. All of this is subordinated to the interests of Mafia clans in the service of state institutions: the Tax Administration, the Prosecutor’s Office, the police, and so forth. And the President's Administration and the President himself are unconstitutional. The government in the state is criminal. Law enforcement structures are out of the legal field. The government is becoming a junta. Such a country is unnecessary, and Europe is turning away from it, and this was confirmed by the Warsaw Conference that had just been held. There are two trends in Ukraine: one from the people to democracy, the opposite from presidential power to criminal dictatorship. Or democracy, which will then ensure possible socio-economic development, the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, the preservation of the state, or dictatorship, which means the continuation of looting, corruption, the dispossession by the penal authorities, as was the case with Gregory's days, the lie from the mouths of ministers and prosecutors, the torture and murder of journalists, MPs, businessmen. And there's nowhere to find any protection. The power goes mad, Satan goes unpunished. We have to stop this mess. Stop now because it's gonna be late. Putting authority under the control of citizens is the main content of our struggle. For power is usurped, and the interests of the people are strange to them. Examples are widely known: the theft of Chernobyl and other funds, budgetary resources, new problems, and the rise in prices for utilities, transportation and communications, bribes and beatings in every official institution, in court, in the post of self - inspection, even in the office of the President. Isn't that right? So the main goal of the opposition, which is to support at least twenty million voters, is to change the system of power, to introduce European mechanisms of power that have been proven effective for decades. In the absence of time, I do not disclose the essence of change, we will look at the changes to the Constitution, and we will have a discussion. We are fighting for a parliamentary presidential form of government. That's what the President says. As practice has shown, he does not really intend to do so. That's why there's a need for early presidential elections, because today's President's Institute with its sins about Gongada, Jelyaskiewicz, Kolchug and many other things, this institution is blocking the necessary changes. How should we do what is necessary? Two choices: either voluntary resignation, or impeachment procedure. The voluntary resignation, of course, is not supported by many here. Then impeachment as a procedure to protect the interests of the President and the interests of the state. There is no other mechanism in nature. Let's go through this procedure. Further, this procedure has been blocked by the President for the seventh year. Why? Clearly, there are reasons, and you know them too. That means together the threat to Ukraine's economic sovereignty, that's also a threat to those who are sitting in the hall today, most of them, because two years is a lot. Consider this situation. In closing, I want to say that the main goal of the opposition is to change the system of power, starting with its balance through the law on the Temporary Inquiry Commissions, through elections on a proportional basis, through changes to the Constitution. All of this is foreshadowed in the draft decree. Please all, left and right, and opposition, and most, support this decision, not the formal document that the majority have given. Then there's a possible dialogue, a normal Parliamentary work. This takes time and gives people hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u146	From the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko Alexander Turchinov. Prepare Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, for several years now in Ukraine, the authorities have been talking about increased production and GDP growth. At the same time, real budget revenues are declining, real incomes of citizens are also declining. The simple question is, where's the money? And the same simple answer is they're in the shadow sector of the economy, which is completely controlled by power. It is in this sector that billions of people’s incomes are generated by the lives and health of millions of our citizens. We are told about the European path of Ukraine, at the same time destroying freedom of speech, censoring, aggressive propaganda, and information terror. The population is deprived of basic constitutional rights to congregations, demonstrations, and public duties, and the remains of democracy in Ukraine are being raped. We are told about constitutional reform and the parliamentary republic. At the same time, the people of Ukraine are deprived of the right to have the Parliament he has chosen. The way of bribery, blackmail, administrative pressure took place was through an audit of parliamentary elections and national will. We're being told about the fight against crime, and the biggest thieves and corrupters in the state are the President, the Attorney General, the head of the State Tax Administration and other high-ranking central and regional level. Instead of protecting the rights of citizens, powerful structures abuse and rob people. Instead of fighting crime, the brothers protect her from judgment, from opposition, from her own people. I want to present an interesting case that occurred yesterday during a hearing before the Supreme Court of the Constitutional Complaint of the Attorney General's Office against Judge Vasilenko, who opened a criminal case against Kuchma. According to the Criminal Procedural Code, a person who is either accused by his lawyers or by investigators or prosecutors who conduct the case may complain. The Attorney General's office asks: Your Honor, you're investigating, are you investigating these facts? They say no. Then the other question is, do you have a deal with Kuchma that you represent him as a lawyer? There is also no agreement. So what are you doing here? Well, the answer is: Dad said we came. I mean, respected colleagues, citizens deprived of basic rights in a country that has one of the first places in the world of corruption, there is lawlessness, violence, political repression, and administrative terror. We are encouraged to stop leading people out into the streets and to follow a civilised process of negotiation. And they're arguing this proposal with the arrests of our people and the discovery of criminal cases against us. We're used to these arguments, they don't surprise us. But, dear fellows, I'd like to ask you, "Who are you negotiating with? With the majority who were involved with traitors who changed the opposition problems to your gentlemen's sets: money, jobs and diapers?" But, dear colleagues, with all due respect to you, you unfortunately cannot even vote on your own. What are some of the more serious issues that we can discuss? To negotiate with Kuchma is also as unpredictably as he is a hostage, both his environment and the powerful states that are now deciding his fate. To negotiate with Russia, to which did Kuchma present the pipe in a bag with the country? So she has more problems than enough. To negotiate with America, when will they open an international order that Leonid Danilovich will write? I'm sorry, it's embarrassing. Dear colleagues! All of this is part of the acute political crisis that exists in Ukraine. And it can be solved either exclusively in this room or on the street. There's a desire to do this in Parliament, please let's get started. But to do so, we need to take a conscious, self - centered step. To get rid of those who hinder some not only from working but also from thinking. That's why we're offering, first of all, respectable colleagues. Start the President's impeachment procedure. You've done more than enough, you've got ten procedures. There is a desire to protect Leonid Danilovich, please. But do it in a legal way, not an axe, bullets, or grate. Next. To express mistrust and to remove from the positions of directors of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Tax Administration, which fully compromised themselves. Then we can really talk about the formation of a real political majority, which should form a government. And even after that, immediate socioeconomic problems can be solved. There is simply no other parliamentary path. There's a desire to go this way, let's go together. No, these questions will solve the streets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u148	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u149	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! Introducing a draft resolution on the political situation to the Supreme Council, we are a faction of communists, once we draw your attention to the need to address the fundamental issues of the establishment of our State and the specific living conditions of Ukrainian citizens. It has become clear that the current political situation has deteriorated dramatically and this reflects the systemic crisis in Ukraine. There are many examples that characterize the depth of this crisis, but the main conclusion is perhaps to be made today. The only fruit of the reformist and indeed disastrous efforts of the Kuchma regime in Ukraine was the creation of a market society, not a market economy. A society where everything is sold and bought: parties, diplomas, education, health, cultural property, spiritual values, not to mention material values. Naturally, 90 per cent of the population that have become poor is purchased through poor wages, pensions, social benefits and excessive prices for the most needed, food and utilities. It is purchased by newly declared Ukrainian oligarchs for a decade, which have created a fantastic state for the expansion of government property, the construction of financial pyramids and trusts. Purchases for the priceless giants of the domestic industry and the energy complex. Where the greed of these novices, how many more palaces, villas, yachts, expensive cars, jewels due to border accounts must be built, bought, opened to satisfy their immense appetite. Who and when, in the end, to answer for all this to the humiliated and desperate nation of ours. The growing severity of these contradictions, particularly between the depreciated work and criminal capital, which have rejected in your development our native Ukraine for a decade and has become a major factor in the political crisis and the formation of that critical mass of public outrage by the criminal actions of the authorities and the service of its oligarchs, which has resulted in the current civil protest “Ascension, Ukraine!".. Non-destructive forces, as they try, and acts, as they try to claim, are trying to claim opposition to power for a new transfer of property, are trying to claim it by the pro-presidential media, and the inability for millions of ordinary Ukrainian citizens to endure further humiliation, insecurity, cynicism of power, without their living problems and needs has led millions of protesters to the surface of the cities and villages of the country. And we, the people's deputies, have no right not to consider it. Therefore, despite the demonstration of disregard for the authority of the demands of the people, its contradictory attempts to bring mass statements by citizens to a regular event common to democratic countries, to present them as a threat to the national security of the country, dangerous political games unleashed by political outsiders seeking revenge, we, the Communist Party of Ukraine, will not deviate from the stated goals and will continue to raise the people to fight. For without the participation of the masses, without constant pressure on power, which combines both parliamentary and protest non-parliamentary forms and methods of fighting, power will never go to the concessions of the workers. And we are with you today to witness that workers are not only involved in protests, because we are aware that the removal from power of the depraved criminal regime of Kuchma is a prerequisite for improving their lives. And I'm addressing you, the people's deputies, Macedonia's acceptance yesterday as a continuation of Armenia, because it's the brightest confirmation. It is a disgrace to the people who are enduring such mistreatment and to the popular electorate who are going to continue to tolerate these abuses both against Ukraine and against the people of Ukraine. The stigmatization of the present power is evident in everything. The organizing power drives away the parliamentary majority. He lies about an unprecedented economic recovery, which is inconceivable why he is accompanied by attacks by teachers and entrepreneurs. Convinces the world community of the absence of political censorship in the country, which is a startling surprise throughout the world. And such paradoxes in the present Ukrainian reality will not be counted. All of them, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, have been born in the face of a depraved, false and cynical political regime that has established in the country a dictatorship of criminal oligarchic bourgeoisie. This regime is not repulsed by the outright bribery and blackmail of members of the public, nor by the fabrication of criminal cases against unfavorable politicians and entrepreneurs. Nor use of the most dirty methods and means to discredit the will of the people. The purpose of these provocative actions is to split the people apart. Play on the real and perceived contradictions between age and social groups in order to deal with each of them alone. I'm finishing, last sentence. And continue its heinous policy of social genocide against its own people. And the latest events in Warsaw when President Kuchma of Ukraine was raised as a schoolboy by Bzezinski, Solana, when Solana said that, and how do you declare European elections and the movement of Europe with such corruption? When, let's say, today, we're actually preparing a program for the President. Tenders are under way in the future to consider the Cabinet of Ministers between a particular regional group and the future successor of the President, and all of this is the result and origin of this regime. That is why we Communists invite the people's deputies to consider the political situation immediately. And adopt the draft decision that we have all taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the factions. From the faction of our Ukraine, who will be speaking? Dear colleagues! Who will be speaking from the "Our Ukraine" faction? Prepare the factions of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Urban Ukraine". Dear colleagues! I'm announcing the entire list of factions that have been defined in order through the "Race" system. I'm calling you and I'm asking you not to make a deal with me. First. Ours is Ukraine, Labour Ukraine, SDPU(O), Regions of Ukraine, European Choice, Democratic Initiatives, NDP, People's Government, Agriculture Party of Ukraine, People's Choice. Please. You don't want to talk about it. No, it's not. The labor, the industry, the entrepreneurs, the labor Ukraine -- they are, please, come on. One minute you stepped out of the faction, calm down, please. Where are they? Dear colleagues! I'm asking you not to block the work, at all, let's work. I'm asking you to calm down. We made a deal. Calm down. Dear colleagues! You don't have to. Dear colleagues, once again I emphasize how agreed the Conciliation Council was: that initiators are entitled to 5 minutes, other factions to 3 minutes. Three factions time used. Please do not interrupt the consideration of the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you again: don't. The labor of Ukraine, are they willing to speak? Let's make a speech, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] By procedure, please, time is coming, please. I'm giving the head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure to Valentine Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u151	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In fact, on the Conciliation Board yesterday was the following agreement: yes, indeed, to give the authors of the draft decisions for their reports. Three of these authors are now out of the rostrum. And then, these are your words, as far as I can remember, 13 to 3 is going to be 39, that is, all the factions are speaking. I mean, according to the Rules, we have to act. The authors spoke, and now it is necessary to give the floor to factions and MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u152	Dear Valentin Grigorovich, distinguished colleagues! I think each of us can actually count. I suggested, once again, the course of events on the Conciliation Council. He suggested that a working group determine how to deal with the issue. They said we don't have to, we've got 45 minutes. And I said, if we use just 45 minutes in this way, we won't be able to speak out to the national MPs. And I was told that's enough, five minutes. Dear Valentin Grigorovich, please support me as head of the Standing Committee, and don't try to frame me. And they said five minutes is three minutes, 15 minutes, and 10 minutes, faction leaders, and 30 minutes. Counting up to 50 is 45 minutes. And please, let's be normal. Dear colleagues, according to the GM procedure, please. Let's not lose sight of the question, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u153	Vladimir Mihajlovich, well, I don't know what agreements have been reached, but always by the rules that exist in the Supreme Council, the authors of the documents do not act as representatives of the factions, but as representatives of the people. Therefore, if we want to set up a sample chart when the initiators of the document first came forward and then his opponents will speak. But it won't be very democratic. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have the impression that you're trying sometimes to at least take steps towards democracy. Well, you don't have to break that image that sometimes wails. There are factions, let all factions speak. And it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I agree with all the factions, but if you're suggesting this logic of things and you've taken the time and we've determined ourselves, then you must know, your honourable colleague's procedure, which is an alternative and this alternative is signed if I'm not mistaken about about 8 people. So let's give 8 more initiators and move on. Dear colleagues, you have voted for time, I can put the question to the vote again. So let's stick to the mutual agreement. I don't understand why she's ruining herself. But we're wasting our time, so let's move, move away from the faction. I'm saying once again, who's going to be speaking from "Our Ukraine" are they? Let's move on. "Poor Ukraine"? Well, wait a minute, I'm sure. I'm once again, Your Honor, I'll finish talking then you'll speak and calm down. Please, from Our Ukraine, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u155	Your Honor, dear colleagues. I especially want God to give wisdom to every national MP who sits in this room. I wish he wouldn't take that wisdom away from us today. The second thing I would like to do today is to have Michael Gruszewski's spirit present in this room, John Mazepa, Taras Shevchenk and many statesmen, many Ukrainians who were loved and left behind the fate of Ukraine. I'd like to use two words of "clan" and "democracy" in my letter. To our deep conviction today, Ukraine faces a historic challenge. On the one hand, we have never been so close to breathing in the back of dictatorship and the clan model of the political system as it breathes today. And that's a fact. And we're not just witnesses, we're also creating this model with our powerlessness, passiveness in the walls of this Parliament. I'd like to isolate that thesis: "If a house is destroyed from the inside, it never lasts." We're in the middle of this house, distinguished national MPs. In our eyes today, Ukrainian power, the Ukrainian economy, is being usurped. I'd like to bring an episode that happened four days ago and tell my colleagues in these walls. It wasn't Gregory's face on the asphalt. I don't even care what the Russian, Ukrainian, Polish business is. We should not even be interested in large business or small business. They put our faces on the asphalt of all of us. They put their faces on the asphalt, as thousands of Ukrainian businessmen do every day, who just can't say they can't find support in these walls. Then our hopes are taken away, and our abilities are taken away. And so, honourable national MPs, I'm going to Sergey Tihypco, Fedor Spig, to Constantine Zivago, to that whole group of businessmen, and they're one-quarter good in this Parliament. Dear friends, what are you confused about? Why don't you get out of that fornication that will lead to that, Sergey Leonidovich, tomorrow you'll be lying on the asphalt, and on your pants, on your pants there'll be two butterfifths, and on your left, and on your right side, on your pants there'll be two butterfifths. You'll have three packs of drugs in your three pockets.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u156	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u157	Dear friends, you were greeted with the formation of the majority, whether it's 211, or 225. My request to you: Do not betray Ukraine, do not betray your families, and be shocked, go and form a healthy majority. Leonid Makarovich, you called for a meeting at the Ukrainian House: "Men, what are you doing?Oh, my God! Come on, let's go!" I want to address them in your words. Do not take a short and broad road to Paradise. It is fornication. Don't take that road to Ukraine. And you'll win. So I want to say quietly, quietly, not loudly -- the glory of every one of you today who has the power, political courage and moral responsibility, the glory of you and the glory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u158	From the faction of "Industrials and Entrepreneurs of Working Ukraine" Sergey Leonidovich Tihypco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u159	Not yet on the asphalt, and there's a chance to say a few words. Dear friends, from the very beginning, when we're talking about a very serious crisis, I can't finally agree to it, because, thank God, the economy is still running a little bit. And when, let's say, it's showing economic growth, let's say it's not a large, 4.1 percent, without our practical help, it's been a year, because we've been doing it for six months because we haven't made constructive decisions, because we've had elections, and we've had six months, we're not making it today because we can't make the majority. But, nevertheless, our businesses are demonstrating an increase of 4.1 percent and the economy of Europe 1.4. [[B in m in s a l in]] to say in general that there is a crisis today, we cannot, whether we like it or not. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I ask you to have courage and tolerance to listen. But they listened to you, and you too listen. We're all listening to each other. Please give the opportunity to speak. Let's respect each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u161	If we talk about the situation in the economy, no matter how much we go around here, next to that, we're going to go out on just one formula -- it's the shared responsibility of most of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. Only then will we have the support we are talking about. The economy needs to be nurtured, it needs to be helped, it competes with the world every day. If we do, she'll live. What do I think is really the problem? In the country. On what should we focus, first of all? It's a democracy. And this is the main question that we should all talk about today together, if we are concerned about most of the people of Ukraine, if we are talking about the success of our nation. The slogan, in my opinion, today must be the slogan of the day, more democracy in Ukraine. I am convinced that this should be the primary concern of the authorities and the majority. Because we're more interested in this than anything. And it's very easy for me to convince you. Why? We lose politically because the people love the besieged. The people support those who are being pressured. And we will not have the free, objective will of the people, because they will watch, first of all, this. Why are we losing economics? We're saying to you, "Look, the concertium!".. We haven't considered a single document. We know that a gas pipeline through Belarus is being built around Ukraine. We know that one of our pipelines doesn't work today because it works for the New Russian pipeline. But objectively we do not view it as a dog sitting in the blue, but we do not view it as politics foresaw the economy. Third. We lose morale, I don't like when there's talk about the opposition being pushed by individual MPs, and that's not what we should encourage them to do. They, it doesn't make them cross over we already see, just interesting work for the benefit of
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, pay attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u163	Only an interesting job in behalf of most citizens can force them to move on today. Because a lot of people who don't want to go to the barricades who want to work constructively for their voters. What is the answer? What's the exit without a password? We've proposed the Opposition Act, which will clearly tell us what opposition can do, how it can affect the situation in the country. Influence constructively. Not on the field, but through the media, through the relevant committees in the Supreme Council, and so on. Next. The constructive work of the majority, public debates on television on the very serious issues that concern the country today, both economic and political. But the great conviction itself will be when most work effectively. And I want to say it again today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? You're not allowed to talk. Listen calmly, everyone has taken over the Rules. I'm asking you to be tolerant, I can't turn off the microphone. Attention, Your Honor! Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u165	And that's what's important. I'll say one last word and that's it. Not to be said today until we figure it out, I insist that the majority, whatever it is, is bad, and so on it is much better than the talks and the lack of responsibility in the Supreme Council. And that's why today I encourage my supporters to work in the majority and negotiate the expansion of this majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues! From the Social Democratic Party. Please prepare "Ukrainen Region." From the Social Democrats, who will be speaking? Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and listen to the transcript so that there are no charges. I suggest that the Working Group of each faction of one man agree on how we will deal with this issue. 45 minutes or an hour and a half, or are we going to look at it all day? Find out who we're going to have reporters and so on. Peter Mikhailovich Simonenko, Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We do not insist on a special procedure, to follow the Rules, as every matter is discussed for 45 minutes, we have agreed that the Rules provide for 45 minutes and no more. We don't need a special procedure. The chairman-- no questions asked, 45 minutes, we're going to ask this question from each faction for three minutes, what is that going to be? The initiators of the three factions will have five minutes, no objection. They're all unanimous. Thank you. Please, Leonid Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u167	Dear National Deputies! Our faction is that all the issues that arise in society or in parliament should be discussed here. There are no closed topics to discuss, and there can be no. But we insist that all issues be discussed when it comes to the Supreme Council for the Sessional Hall only under the Rules. No one can impose their position on anyone, free discussion is democracy. And then we make the decision, the decision is made by a majority of the vote. Next. We feel that we are wasting time today when we need to resolve the underlying issues. Instead of making decisions about creating, improving the new system of power that I support, we blame each other. We believe that the situation in Ukraine is indeed acute. The political situation has worsened tremendously recently. And this hinders Ukraine, both in economic and international development. We need to find ways out of this situation. Let's look here at the Supreme Council, not by accusing the dictatorship, but by making constructive decisions. That's what we call everybody. We believe that political stability in order for us to come to the next democratic elections, we have to do everything we can to do: and the law to accept elections, and to make changes, if we can, to the Constitution of Ukraine, that is to say, to take absolutely concrete steps. And you don't have to complain about the dark, you have to light the candle. Whoever's ready for this, let it light. That's what we're talking about. No one has any reason or right to limit his thoughts. That's the people's MP's opinion. I also wanted to speak quietly because I know that women respect those who speak silently, and they take the word of love when it is said very quietly. But I also know that in order to say it quietly, there is love, unfortunately, we don't have it, and there are very few women. So I urge you to speak as much as anyone can, but at least say what he thinks and at least a little bit of the truth. Good luck.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u168	From the faction of "Ukraine," please prepare for the group "European Choice."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u169	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! Not long ago, during our election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for two months, we discussed with you the political and socio-economic situation in our country. Like you, I remember very well what he said and what the villagers and the cities told me. What our people want. Living human lives without demeaning their human dignity. But so far our young and independent state, the legislature and the executive, and the judicial branches of power have not been able to create the right conditions for citizens to exercise their rights and freedoms in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. Unfortunately, after 11 years of independence, we, the people's deputies, have only begun to consider yesterday such important and decisive laws as the foundations of our nation's internal foreign policy. We really have a hard time building an independent state. The reasons for this are both objective and subjective. Annual changes in governments, their programs, foreign policy, lack of laws, trained personnel. One thing is for sure, we've had worse times with you. However, today’s lives are not great. And the eternal question of the classics, in the original language, is, "Who is to blame? And what do you do?" Let's try to evaluate ourselves, legislators. What was our job and politics? What are our laws in force? How do we carry out our monitoring function as members of the Supreme Council? Clearly, bad law is bad for business, for citizens and for the state. We don't control the enforcement of the law. Even worse, the situation is lawlessness. Do we today have normal, stable legislation? No, not again. Which every year we adopt the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Our main financial socio-economic and, in general, political document. We realize that politics, the economy, are linked forever. By distributing every year between regions and citizens the national wealth of the budget, we either create economic difficulties or change them for the better. This, in turn, leads to a change in the political or intensification, or a decrease in the political situation. Consider the expression of our rebel classics. "Do oxen roar like mangers are full?" What did we do with you in the 2003 budget? Have we identified with you the priorities and directions of our nation's development? No, it's not. Balanced income and expenditure? No, I'm not. We just increased our share by 8 billion. Next. We've solved the problem of miners, builders, agrarians? No, I'm not. Have we solved the question of salary? No, I'm not. But we accepted such a budget. The rights and freedoms of citizens have been reduced in comparison with our Constitution. In general, I am asking whether it will lead to an increase in whether it will remove the political tension of 2003. So our faction of regions, in which of the 37 majors were deliberately not voting in favour of such a budget, because it has no balance in the interests of all the population. We want to be responsible. including the 2003 political budget. We, MPs, are doomed to work economic and political choices. Let's be honest with ourselves and people whether we did everything in the previous years in an unmistakable way or every year we pushed our economy into a dead end and a shadow. We MPs have been talking to you about taxes for years. Please tell me, what did we do during this period? We ran our businesses into a dead end. So we have more problems today than we have any gains. I want to say that we, the faction of the Regions, are not happy with the work we've been doing. But together, I conclude, we're willing to do more together. Unfortunately, all of you have not always shown society an example of finding a common language. Let's throw away our ambitions by finishing. And to the adoption of economic laws agreed upon by factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u170	Turn off the microphone. The word comes from a European choice, Vladimir Semenovich Boyko. Prepare to speak to a representative of democratic initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! For the second time, I'm going to this rostrum and I'm just surprised what this is about and I think, basically, when we came here, we didn't talk about it to our constituents. It's embarrassing for me to go out and tell you that one of the richest countries today is doing something that we don't have to do. First of all, what is being done today during these six months. In fact, in a large way, we do not allow work today to be done by the Government, not by the President, not by ourselves. Once again, I'm going to give some examples that are going to break the myths. We repeat the mistake of 1999 when this situation arose and we replaced the Government. As a result, over the course of the year, the Prime Minister of Viktor Andreevich Yushchenka, I respect him very well. But let's see what was done this year. It's my first time, you don't let me listen. After what happened in 1998. I understand that you won't let me talk, and I understand perfectly what I'm saying and telling you about what happened. Since the collapse of 1998, we have done everything we can to make a number of decisions that the President has taken, thanks only to his decree of 16 December 1998, Ukraine has begun to raise itself properly. Take it and count it. Yushchenko's coming with the team for the year. I'll bring the numbers. The bread cost 65 kopecks, with Yushchenko standing at the table 15. Sausage, meat, everything else-- count it. We're going back to that today. It's the mass of normal laws that have been worked out today. Listen, don't yell, come to our factory and see how Ukraine lives. I assure you, these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u172	Vladimir Semenovich, one minute. I'm talking to Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, please calm down Victor Andryovich, tell him to calm down. Vladimir Bondarenko, I know you have a strong throat, don't yell, just calm down. Let every one of you do what he thinks is necessary. Well, please, let me hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u173	First of all, I've never been going and I'm not going to hurt anyone, because any world is much better than any war. That's not what people expect from us. And when they come out of the rostrum and tell the people what's behind them. Excuse me, what people? Who needs it, what's going on in the street. I'm sorry, this people don't have to. The people need good wages during paid, normal health and normal life. That's what people need. So once again, I urge you, end the political trouble, let's get down to business.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u174	From the Democratic Initiatives parliamentary group, Gabriels Stepan Bogdanovic is speaking, preparing for a presentation from the NDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u175	Honourable Presidency, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. My father, a simple blacksmith, once said that a bird that destroys its nest would never build another. And that political elite that's trying to destroy the weak today. Ukrainian state, there's no way. We have a huge burden on us today, and a national test when we haven't been able to create a Ukrainian state for seven centuries, and having it for the 11th year of our lives, we're struggling with each other who's better. In times of difficult transitions from one time to another. The Spanish political corps was united on the basis of national interests. In 98, the Hungarian Parliament signed an alliance between socialists and new Democrats, which gave a serious boost to democratic development under the new conditions of Hungary's European transformation. Undoubtedly, rejecting today's lack of understanding of the Ukrainian crisis would be unfair, it exists, but what causes of the political crisis in Ukraine no one wants to answer these questions honestly. The main one is certainly the crisis of the transformation period itself, which has lingered from the transition from the time of the totalitarian development system to the new conditions of democracy. The other one. This is not a formation for this time of national political elite. And the third is not the willingness of the existing political elite to respond to the challenges of today. Clearly, the very sharp peak of this crisis and crisis is the institutional crisis of power as such. And it's not the first parliamentary authority where for seven months we've been discussing which one of us has the right to vote first, not responding to our electorate with a real legislative work and not creating that majority, and the opposition declared by the draft law today supported by the Constitutional Court. Where, in fact, political opposition was created not only by law but also by political opposition. I think it is responsibility for national interests that should unite us and make us sign a compromise that is a commitment to the Ukrainian nation regarding our progress and development. The point of this crisis is not that there is someone in the state who leads another line of conduct. The essence of the crisis is that we do not understand the responsibility shared by the Ukrainian State. And that's why the country's political development centre is to determine Ukraine's fate today by consensus, by signing a pact of Ukrainian political elites to get Ukraine out of the deadlock where we put it on the path of European development. I realize that the most acute aspect of this problem is the political systemic reform that the President has sponsored and today is the political ball in the field of Ukrainian legislators. But at the same time, we're not having a discussion about what this reform is going to be and what will be the model of the next Ukrainian government, the next era of the second Ukrainian republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u176	From the National Democratic Party of Ukraine, please, who will be speaking? Get ready for the People's Rule Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u177	National Deputy Bunny, faction of the People's Democratic Party, electoral district 225, town of Sevastopol. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! For the past few months, our nation has been living a tense political life. Despite a measure of economic stability and the efficiency of the management system, there is a growing political crisis. What causes them? First of all, I would like to state that for people's Democrats, it has long been evident that there is a lack of accountability of the existing system to social questions. Today's model of power, which merely camouflages the administrative and bureaucratic system, has become the basis for the formation of such phenomena as autocratism of power, oligarchy, corruption, and economic freedoms, etc. And this system needs radical change. It's a complex question that needs to be changed by the government from a systematic update of regional policy. Complete administrative reform, revision of legislation and so on. But since the fall of 2000, there has been a cynical struggle for power in a clean form in Ukraine. Unfortunately, the loud cases to be investigated by law, the Gongadze case, the armed scandal, have only become an instrument in the hands of individual political forces. The cynicism of the situation is that social interests and internal problems try to manipulate. These attempts are made not only by individual politicians but also by individual countries of the West, which are increasingly interfering with the internal situation in Ukraine. Authorized information, synchronism of events and new information devices ultimatum of political requirements of opposition has created an atmosphere of political war. Dear colleagues! Consider what I have to say. From time to time, we are no longer competing politically, and we are discussing ideologically, we are hostile. Society is out of the question because they have become just a viewer. And I don't think it's a coincidence. What do you want to do? We have a lot of talk about democracy. But democracy is not a wish, it's a collective action. So we need to move from words to practical democracy. First of all, give up the struggle for power in unconstitutional ways. We need to get back from the streets at the negotiating table. The other one. To admit how the very absence of a political dialogue behind the walls of Parliament has caused our policy to become a fight. This applies to both the opposition and the participants of today's parliamentary majority and the executives, the President and the local councils. Exits the dialogue accordingly. We still have a chance to stop the political war and deny inner peace. In order to do this, it is necessary to rid ourselves of the illusion that someone will impose his will on someone, and no will ever be done. There can only be consensus. So I propose not to invent a bicycle, but to go outside the walls of Parliament and organize the Round Table with the participation of parties, the public, and invite the President to participate. Such a course is now being discussed by representatives of our Ukraine and by participants in the vast majority. What mission could a round table perform? Dialogue between leading parties and associations, power and the public, achievement.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u178	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u179	With regard to models and ways of implementing the reform of the political system. I would also like to make arrangements for a kind of moratorium, both on legitimate political charges and reprisals. This is a violation and justified action by the authorities, but that does not mean that someone has a separate right to charm entire institutions. How this is now done by strong structures. That's why there's a court system for it to decide. And the charges and the violations. Third. I suggest that we consider the matter shortly before the establishment of a parliamentary constitutional commission into which it can enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u180	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u181	representatives of all factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u182	Turn off the microphone. Please, from the People's Authority Group, National Deputy Hubsky. Prepare for the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u183	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In my view, today’s discussion by the Supreme Council of the political situation should have a major impact on its improvement. This calls for a self - criticism of our actions. How is the work of the Supreme Council viewed by the majority of the population who are struggling for survival today? Convinced that there is little interest in the relationship between parties, blocks, and political leaders. The vast majority of the population of Ukraine struggle for their survival for a slice of bread. And until we realize that in the Supreme Council we represent their own interests, until we gain the authority and support of our electorate, which, by the way, is often what goes on, including in the walls of the Supreme Council, seems like the door of intrigue and the struggle for power. People are primarily interested in our decisions to improve people’s lives. Who today is to blame for the crimes we say about privatization, about the costs abroad? But we're to blame, and I'm to blame, including as deputy to the second vocation. We MPs, and the previous one, including vocations, have passed laws that we say today to steal money, to make millions of dollars in profits. That's what we accepted. And so today the answer to the eternal question, "What do we do and how do we do?" We need to look here today at the walls of the Supreme Council. We, MPs, today both the source and the cause, including failures, and false decisions. What prevented it? We have absolutely enough authority to find solutions to these questions. First of all, it has always been an unwillingness to listen to one another and overly suspicious of one another. And we have to throw it away today, sit at the table and talk openly about the matter. It might even be helpful to limit the number of charges in this room. Because today they are increasing in proportion to the number of schools in Ukraine that are preparing prosecutors, who in Soviet times had less than ten, now less than a hundred. With regard to the first-line actions of the deputy corps, I am absolutely confident that it is necessary to develop and adopt normative acts that regulate the state’s functions during the transitional period, primarily in the field of education and health care. When a desperate teacher goes to strike, it's a disgrace to all of us! For both the executive and the legislative authorities. Because the loss of state guarantees today is causing a stir in society. We, MPs, say difirambs of our science, of our education, of our Academy of Sciences. What, though, about the adoption of the corresponding budget articles? But we still have the opportunity to remedy this situation today. Great dissatisfaction also causes people to fail to fulfill their obligations to humans by the State. I have in the district, in Goldilocks, for example, a simple question -- an entangled gas for veterans, a disabled war -- 50 percent, solid fuel for war participants -- 21 percent. The Supreme Council today needs to develop a specific action mechanism to monitor the enforcement of laws, to monitor the implementation of State guarantees for people. In conclusion, I would like to say that the history of our nation as a whole of Cossacks as periods in our country shows a simple solution to the issue. If we are not together, if we do not learn to respect one another, if we do not pursue politics in the interests of the State, the result may be great ruin. I recall that after the fall of Chigirina in 1676, the prophet Jeremiah said that the Cossacks of that time had all perished. They conquered themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u184	From the Agrarian Party of Ukraine is Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko. Prepare for the National Choice parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u185	Kirilenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear friends! Dear colleagues! There is one absolute truth that unites us all and unites us all 450 in this room -- we all want to build and live in a powerful, powerful country in Ukraine. The undeniable truth is that it is not possible to carry out this enormous task without a strong parliament. A strong parliament can only be when it is responsible. Regrettably, and speaking this truth that came before me was confirmed, in over 10 years of independence, unfortunately, we did not create a strong, responsible parliament because we did not have the instrument of enacting the law, its responsibility because of the branch of power that this law embodies. I think that today our Parliament has grown up to make such a decision accountable. You can borrow it. On this rostrum a few days ago, the prime minister, speaking on budget issues, said: "In the past year, the population of Ukraine consumed goods and services, paid 20 billion more than they received from social services. Dear friends! Is that not the best evidence that the shadow economy is flourishing? Let's put our hand on our heart, and it's not our fault that we still haven't accepted a normal tax scheme in a state called the Tax Code? Once again in 2003, we're going to multiply this evil by adopting the old tax base budget. Is it not our fault, my friends? For four years now, there have been pension laws that have been marked for the Pension Reform. Is it not our fault we didn't accept them? Two years ago, the Earth Codex was adopted. We did not adopt any law for his development. Half of it is in the Supreme Council. Dear friends! We need to approach constitutional reform immediately. We have the Constitutional Commission, it's made of representatives, there's voices: "Let's create!".. It's made up of representatives of all the parties, the blocks and so on, which are in the Supreme Council. The President's order was created. Dear friends! You and I can extend the constitutional reform, not for a year, as described in the Transitional Statutes, but for a month. Because 300 votes in the room -- and we're deciding to create a parliamentary-presidential republic and we're taking responsibility for both the laws and the government. What prevents us from sitting at the table and starting this work? Nothing gets in the way. Because I call again the factor that I called the first - uniting idea, and we are 450, the powerful authority of Ukraine. We all want to. Dear friends, one question to be settled, we need a strong, responsible parliament. He will respond to this challenge of time through constitutional reform, it is in our hands. So let's start it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u186	From the People's Choice, please. And we'll continue to consult.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u187	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. As we consider the political situation in Ukraine, we must not only assess today but also try to assess the past, understand the current trends, but try to see the future from here. Without trying to cover the whole problem in general, I would like to focus on two points. For 10 years, Ukraine's independence has formed its political management elite. Today it is represented in public life by parties and blocs. In the Supreme Council, factions and groups, respectively. In support of this, it is not only that there are parties here. Not that we have deputies today. But what we need to understand about power today is the desire for power and the desire for power is the natural desire of any policy. It is also natural to return to power by those who were in it. I want to highlight and give a few examples. This is supported by the presence in the Supreme Council, including in the ranks of the opposition of former Presidents of the Supreme Council, Prime Ministers and other persons of the first echelon of power. I'll do it again. The forces, the people eventually want to return to power. I think this is one of the engines of today's position and political situation in Ukraine. Surprisingly, the entrance of public battalions to this area is not only silenced by the initiators themselves but also by their opponents. Second. On methods of political struggle for power. The opponents of the current power today express with their main message their desire to build a free democratic Ukraine. Yes, I agree, and it is correct that today, as always, we need to criticize the power to do so by the opposition. But do we? The methods of achieving its objective are questionable. Let me give you some examples. It is hard to imagine that in Germany politicians would be forced to break into the central national television channel or that in the same America, abused congressmen would break into the White House. And in their political battalions, do English Labourists and conservatives appeal to the authorities of distant Mongolia to judge them? In addition, it should be remembered that the conflict surrounding Iraq's possible sale of the Colchug system also coincided with the opposition's deployed shares. It seems that this is a link in someone's game, which is aimed at anything but the interests of the State of Ukraine. That is why this makes me doubt the nature of the current domestic political situation. Conclusions. Only a monolithic society can protect itself, not society and not those who water themselves and their country. The poor and the raw are only needed to solve their problems, not to be valued and perceived. Therefore, on behalf of the People's Choice Group, I declare that there are no unnecessary political slogans.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u188	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u189	We must focus on creating laws. And the last. For those who do as the poet said, there is hope in the struggle. There is hope, but there is no power and no use. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, we have six minutes to talk. National MP Carmazin wrote it down first. Well, let's take a look at the weather. Dear colleagues, what are you accusing me of? We follow the Rules clearly. I'm asking you to calm down. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Please don't take my time. Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard of what we already have. International isolation, which means the threat, including the bombing of Yugoslavia, let us speak frankly. This means the possibility of issuing international arrest warrants, to many, including those sitting in this room, and there in the government box. This means that we too are to blame by crossing the Constitution through the adoption of an anti-constitutional agreement in 1995. What is the presidential majority? How can we not demean our MP’s badge? There is a pro-Ukrainian majority, remember! And don't embarrass yourself! And don't tell me you're an MP! If you listen to people like that. He says don't vote, let's say Social Democrats. Leonid Makarovich, I'm telling you, please hand over Leonid Danilovich. I'm willing to be your lawyer for free. Ready, for the Constitution does not specify how a special drawing order of responsibility should be. But I'm also introducing a law on security assurances for you. Because it's cheaper for the state than the civil war that we're called on to. I'm against civil war! We'd better do it cheaper. Yes, dear friends! What should we do now? Everyone's going to Russia right now to cry, to see who's going to be the prime minister. And I'm asking you, look, your honor. Read Major Melnicka: 50 million. Cash, because we're going to ask Putin a question, let him return 50 million. Cash. [[in dollars, I mean]] So there's a question here and to Putin. We're not talking about Putin, we're only talking about Ukraine and it's better for her today. It is better for her today to adopt a number of laws. First. The President's Office Act. You don't need two governments, there has to be only one. And there will be no Reichs office and Reichs Chancellor Medvedchuk, it will be fine, it will be fine. Thank you. We need a law to give assurances to the President. The other one. It's very easy for you and me to accept, and it's very easy for the President to sign, and we thank him. Thank you. The money will be returned. It's gonna be okay. No one's gonna touch him, not the president's business, sitting in jail. The other one. Please, please, please, let's make a decision on the second stage of these political hearings. Now let's do these papers that the initiators have proposed. I'm not suggesting anything else by adding just these steps. Keep going. I suggest. Don't give me Mr. Rabbit, please. I'm still asking, I say. I'm done. Dear friends, the changes to the Constitution that have been worked out, and the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, but the law isn't like a case against someone, it's not about Kuchma or Kravczuk that needs to be settled today, I'm finishing it, but I'm taking the time, they're yelling. The law is simply needed as a settlement, because 108 Constitutions say that there can be resignation, there can be no execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u192	Turn off the microphone, please. Dear colleagues, since time is nearing for us to be. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u193	So 30 seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I've been collecting, I've been collecting what they're buying and how the budget is made. [[There's a lot of intelligence in the country's Protectors Party.]] There's no head of government, I wanted to show you. I wanted to ask: How? So I'm taking a name for a deposit, Gorbachev, and I'm noting that the privatisation issue has been decided. The government is only working to finance the factions of the so - called majority. That's what they're holding on to. I'm ready to talk all over the faction. And I'm telling you, I encourage you, there's a normal majority here, don't formalize any further, I'm already addressing you like this, you don't have to do that anymore. I'm going to make it public.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u194	Turn off the microphone. Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're running out of time. One minute for the final word to the initiators of this question. Please. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u195	Alexander Moroz, Socialist Party of Ukraine A few shards of a general nature. We're different deputies here. We're different from our own status. We broke into Parliament here because of the opposition of power, through the administration, through the intimidation of our activists, through prisons and all sorts of things. The other part, which today, largely lies in the majority, otherwise went to Parliament. But we've become the same MPs. I'm out of this. Let us not be misled in front of one another. The main problem in Ukraine is that it's organized by the gang system, and you all know it. There's no economic democracy, it's destroying the medium and small business. There will never be a middle class as the foundation for social stability. Why do we keep our eyes closed and try to somehow justify ourselves before the Administration, justify ourselves before our President? Why did the second Parliament change to rise above such fear and adopt a normal Constitution instead of dictatorships and so forth? Why don't you want to change the Constitution today, change the system of power and bring the state into order?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u196	Turn off the microphone. Peter Simonenko, please. Don't raise your hand, there's no time. What do you raise your hands, dear colleagues? We've established a regulation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u197	Simonenko, the Communist faction. First. I want to sincerely thank everyone who said from this rostrum who we have in the State. And some of the answers to the questions that have come to us, the organizers and initiators of this question. On the tools for the formation of Parliament. For those who spoke today in defence of the President and called for calm, the instrument for the formation of Parliament was naturally the President's consent to your election by the People's Deputies. And only after that did you become the people's deputies. There was no people's will to speak about it. There was also violence against the will of the people. Second. When there is talk of responsibility and we are called upon to understand the situation. I'm addressing you, Mr. Kruglov. I didn't hear your voice when you were head of administration. You didn't talk about taxes. You didn't talk about construction plants. You didn't talk about much of a friend. I'm asking you, let's, if we're talking about responsibility, always carry it in front of your conscience, first of all. And silence. This is a long time ago. But I'd like to ask you, when I'm called to silence, what do you need to do under cover at night to steal "Small"? 142 billion bracelets placed property.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u198	Finish up. Peter Mikolaiovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u199	I'm done. They've been handed over to the Bureau to those who speak of silence. 30 billion dollars of weapons have been sold. I didn't get a penny.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u200	Turn off the microphone. Don't scream. They don't take anything with a scream.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u201	That's why I'm here in public with Mr. Kravchuk. My position was and I'm not going to speak quietly. You must be criminalized for all the crimes that have been.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u202	Turn off the microphone. People's deputy to Kruglov. Replica, please. Just don't call me names, please. Well, calm down. You know the rules better than I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u203	I would like to remind the honourable MP that he would go to Mikolai and find out what Kruglov had done and what he had done. That's the first one. And the second. I've penetrated Parliament as much as you have. But my consciousness is much higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u204	Thank you. Turkish national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u205	Dear colleagues! On September 17, after OMON struck down peaceful demonstrators at night and over 60 people were thrown into prison, we invited the Supreme Council to consider urgently the political situation in the country. The so - called majority, or you wouldn't say, delayed the month. The moon was actually blocking you, your esteemed colleagues, the work of the Supreme Council. Nevertheless, you had to consider the matter today. That's why I'm talking to you again. You don't have to just put on a bird. So we've considered the question and we've moved on. That's not going to happen. We need to make responsible decisions. I am addressing you, find courage in yourself and start considering the impeachment procedure, start voting on your own, and you and I will be able to deal with this political crisis. And then we're going to deal with social, economic problems that can be dealt with quickly and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-23-m0.u206	Dear colleagues! Question completed. The time for his consideration is exhausted as we agreed. The morning session of the Supreme Council has been closed since 15 hours by a parliamentary hearing on the relationship and cooperation between Ukraine and NATO. Please participate in parliamentary hearings. Tomorrow is the day of the Supreme Council's decision.
