ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please, dear fellows, take up your jobs. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:02:38]] Registered -377 There are 377 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, our colleague, Landik Valentina Ivanovich. Let's welcome him and wish him well. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. Announcing that the Supreme Council of Ukraine established the AntiNATO MPs on November 12, 2000, which now included 66 national deputies. Declarations and necessary signatures, all documents are in the Personnel Management. Another announcement. In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform you of the coming official decision of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine to exclude the faction of the national deputy Sergio Georgievic Kiroyanz. Another announcement about the entry of the National Deputy to the Ukrainian Agrarian faction and the withdrawal from the People's Landing faction. Dear colleagues, I wanted to consult with you on your judgment. We don't have a vote for ratification. If you did not object, perhaps today we voted in favour of moving away from the established Rules and voting on these documents. How do you feel about that? By procedure, please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Including the city of Morshina, there was a request to vote on the status of the district date.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u2	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In fact, we made a mistake yesterday, I'd say, even a fatal mistake. The city of Lviv is not my constituency to understand, but there is Glady and there are many Lvivians who know what is, almost tragically, the water supply situation in Lviv. About an hour or two of all the water goes to a city like this. We didn't ratify this document yesterday. It's a date. This is a very convenient grand for the city of Lviv, it will save Lviv. And I'm supporting Vladimir Mikhailovich so that maybe there are other ratification papers that we don't tolerate delay, especially this Lviv vote today. I think you're going to support this, there's no political, there's no subtext. There's just life, and we have to intervene. Thank you very much, and I believe you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u3	Please, National Deputy Carmazin. And the Master. I'll take a look there, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u4	Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm afraid you didn't have much time yesterday. The result was a brutal violation of the Rules by our colleague Vasiliev. We noticed yesterday, I think a sober analysis showed, I say sober, because yesterday everyone was in euphoria, there was a half room so very, very excited, let's put it mildly. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the issue of ratification needs to be considered today, but we need to consider them, given that at-hoc needs to make decisions right now before the Rules, so that the illegality of these decisions does not again arise. This is very important today. To vote at-hoc first what we can do today, and then to make changes to the Rules, and then to vote for specific proposals. But make an exception only for ratifications. Then go according to the order of the day that we have approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u5	Thank you for your support, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, National Deputy Masters.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u6	Vladimir Mystrishkin, District 14, Our Ukraine, Solidarity. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, I am absolutely not against the grant given to Lvov, I will totally support it, but I am drawing your attention to Bill 0054, this is about the ratification between the government of the Russian Federation and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This bill was not passed by the Committee of Budgets, and there was no further discussion. I would like to point out that all the bills related to the ratification of such agreements should be passed by a budget committee because they affect the marginal amount of government debt for the following year, and this bill does not go to the limit. So I must insist that we do not consider the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if we stand in those positions today that we will make an exception for one bill and block the other one, you understand that in the session room we will not collect the required number of votes. All documents have been processed and have come to the Supreme Council. Please, School, then Pavlovski. I see it all, my dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u8	I would like to support here the National Deputy Carmazin, who has indeed claimed that there was no need for ratification. The vote of ratification in yesterday's vote was simply not put to the vote. It could have been, it could have been time, and all of this could have been done. And this money is needed by Lviv. There is no way that Ukraine can allocate such funds. So we have to and we have to support here, I agree, this isn't what we don't have policy here, this is really our attitude towards people, whether we're supporting people in having the ability to live and function normally in the city, or whether we're supporting the power that wants to implement these funds and implement a project that's been delayed for years. For more than twenty years, Lviv has no water. Give him the water, lady.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u9	Please, Pavlovsky. Dear colleagues, please, we have a deal here in principle. Let's vote better, make up our minds.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I will say literally two words after the two agreements that are being discussed today. Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke to Bunjak, and he assured me that 90 percent of the money would go to the purchases for Ukrainian companies -- equipment, pipes and the like. So it's probably going to be the first such deal that's going to benefit completely all of the regions of Ukraine because it's creating jobs. And secondly, as head of the former Committee on Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, I want to say that we need to build nuclear station blocks. The European Bank promised no credit. Russia gives these loans -- we have to take them, we just don't have them, because the blocks need to be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u11	Thank you. Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Gladys, faction of the Agrany Party of Ukraine. I support my colleagues with regard to the grant for Lviv. That's a very important question, and we're really not going to be able to take that out of the local budget or the State budget today. So I ask you to put this question to a vote today and vote on all the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u13	People's Deputy Stays. I see, I've recorded, I've recorded, I've recorded, I've recorded. My friend Nightshenko, I've got it, I've got it. Please remain a national MP, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, you and I are all bound to support cities that give us health — Morshin, and Rabbit, East, and Mirrod, and many others. The budget is now being completed, and it is therefore very important to vote today on the status of district subordination for the city of Morshin. So I'd like to ask you again to come back to that question. And the second. Yesterday, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the issue of a grant for the city of Lviv, for the Lviv Canal. And all the deputies from different factions unanimously supported the decision to grant consent to this grant. I think we're going to do the same thing for Zaporozhye and for Sevastopol, because they're also on approach. I'm asking you all to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u15	National Deputy Kachur, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak up on the argument of Deputy Masters, and it's gone so far beyond consideration. I would like to point out to you that there are treaties whose ratification requires changes to the Budget Act. Yesterday we voted on the balance of external borrowings. If other commitments are made, it changes the size of external borrowing. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I propose that we stop at ratifying those treaties that do not change the balance. The Lviv grand can be voted on today and should be voted on as he does not. on an irreversible basis for the State of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u17	National MP Matvijev, please Valentin Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Regrettably, respected colleagues were repeatedly allowed to break the rules during the evening meeting yesterday. This is primarily the ad hoc procedure, that is, by decree, we have abolished the requirements of the law, the budget code, which we voted for. The other one. By the will of the presiding officer, the procedure for the consideration proposed since the morning session and for each of the people’s deputies to review all legal acts was changed. I think Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is unacceptable. And also that the presiding meeting may continue without the agreement of the national deputies for both 20 and 30 minutes, especially the evening. I don't know where I'm going with this. I would like to propose that we think to the leaders of all factions about what is being drafted on the committee today by the draft Rules Act. We have all come to the conclusion, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that we need a procedure for reviewing and voting on draft laws every day. And then we won't have that problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u19	I agree with you. People's deputy Noshchenko and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I'm a little bit disagreed with the previous ones that this Lion Grand is, that it's irreversible, it's a loan that our children are going to have to pay 100 million dollars back in Ukraine to return. And the second. 30 million dollars will be spent, sorry not on water supply and sanitation improvement. I would like this project to go through the budget committee and not take it to the session room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u21	I beg of you, fellow officers of honor. In view of the proposal made, I now propose that we vote for the ratification bills today. Is there no objection? I'm asking you to back me up. And in the city of Morshin and so on. Please vote. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[10:16:09]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that not all have arrived, there is the insistence of the national MPs, and I once again put the vote to the vote. Please vote. Dear colleagues. You all insisted, let's vote, please. [[10:16:37]] For 313 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Global Environment Facility Grant Agreement for the Conservation of Biodiversity in the Azov Black Sea Corridor between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is an introductory institution of the World Environment Fund. Please vote, the committee recommends ratifying. [[10:17:17]] For 325 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Grant Agreement of 48 million Swedish crowns between the Government of Sweden represented by the Swedish Agency for International Development and the Government of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine represented by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the City of Lviv and the Lviv City Municipal Company of Lvivvodokal. With motive? Please. Dear colleagues! We're going according to procedure. Don't make me break the procedure. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u22	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Thank you. Dear colleagues! And in our previous call to the Supreme Council, we have repeatedly -- the Communists -- stressed that if we get a range of certain credit lines, we need to understand what the cost is. And this document right over here, this is plugin 1 -- again, different auditor services, $2.9 million is being allocated. So let's say, let's say we're of this 50, let's say, millions or 49 again, we're giving 3 million to certain audience services. As was the case in previous grants used by certain humanitarian funds or other funds, but this is about increasing the impact and pressure of certain structures from abroad on Ukraine and making appropriate decisions. So once again, I'd like to warn all of us against doing this kind of thoughtless thing, to pay attention to what they sign up when they write down $3 million just for these audience services.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the draft law on the ratification of this agreement at 0055. Please vote. [[10:19:30.]] For 294 "For" is 294, the decision is made. Dear colleagues! I ask you not to relax and vote others so that we have a shared responsibility here. I am voting on the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the granting of State credit to finance the construction of nuclear power plants in Ukraine. Please support me in taking into account the suggestions made by Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:20:07]] For 314 "For" is 314, the decision is made. I am voting on the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Czech Republic on social security. Please be supportive. The committee recommends. [[10:20:33]] For 336 For 336, the decision is made. I am voting on the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Bulgaria on social security. The committee supports and requests ratification. I'd like to support you, dear colleagues. [[10:20:59]] For 349 For 349, the decision is made. Involved in your consideration. I am voting on the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the 1993 International Convention on Maritime Flags and Mortgages. The committee supports and requests the vote. I'm asking you to support me, too. Please vote. [[10:21:28]] For 293 For -293, the decision is made. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Movement of Goods in Cooperation in the Development of Space, the Creation and Exploitation of Missile Space and Missile Technology. For reasons, please, National Deputy Ostrash. Cook, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I support the ratification of this agreement with one small warning. I would ask the Supreme Council to make such a warning. I draw your attention to the fact that Article 3 of this Treaty provides for the definition of a list of goods that are not subject to customs clearance. This list of goods should be determined by the National Space Agency itself. I propose that the only warning should be that this list of goods be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because otherwise we're creating a regime where we can import any goods into Ukraine without a moment, so my proposal is a warning, and I'm formally introducing it so that the list of goods can be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, this is a very good offer with no slits to import chicken legs and others there, the stork, more loyal. I'm betting on a vote with a warning from the national deputy of our colleague, the cook. Please vote. [[10:23:25]] For 342 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Government of Romania, the Government of the Slovak Republic concerning the creation of a multinational engineering battalion. The committee supports and requests the vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:23:58]] For 340. Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Rules of Origin of Developing Countries' Origins for the granting of tariff preferences within the general system of preferences. The committee recommends ratifying. Please vote. [[10:24:29]] For 341 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Greek Republic on Legal Assistance in Civil Matters. The committee supports. Please vote. [[10:24:56]] For 349 For 349, the decision is made. I'm betting on a draft law on Ukraine's accession to a patent law agreement. The committee proposes the adoption of an appropriate law. I'll bet you a vote. Please be supportive. [[10:25:26]] For 332 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a draft decree to place the city of Morshin in the district of Lviv. Please be supportive. Please, Alexandrovska, for reasons, a faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u26	Deputy Alexandrovskaya, Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I do not explain the vote on this bill. I've come up with a question on the agenda. The issue is that we have an agenda that is agreed upon and that relates to the work of the Supreme Council throughout this week. And on this agenda, one second, this agenda on Friday planned very serious issues, including a report by the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. And so on and so forth. But still, what were the reasons for removing this issue from the agenda this week? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u27	I'm answering. Dear colleagues, we agreed on this issue at the Conciliation Council. In view of the absence of the head of the profile committee, we agreed to move to the following Friday. In addition, there is no Attorney General who is on a mission. We will listen to this question next Friday. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a draft decree to place the city of Morshin in the district of Lviv. We voted him, we didn't win one vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:27:17]] For 352 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Fellow dignitaries, motivated by Peter Stepanovich Cibenko Dear colleagues, please calm down. Dear colleagues! Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would still like to support the question that has now been said, but in another way. We have a day-to-day issue that we issued for the week, the first question was Bill No. 0999 on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine. You know, I feel like we're already having a bad practice of moving bills not just for one day, but between days. I don't deny that there may be a valid reason, but someone has to explain that this problem has arisen, and that's why we're taking it down and moving it there or there. It is simply a matter of warning about the movements that are taking place.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u29	Peter Stepanovich, I fully agree with you here. The thing is, when we were supposed to get to the schedule, I had to inform you. The point is that we arranged for a faction leaders to meet on Friday to reconcile this issue and not bring it into the hall because there is no support. But in view of the fact that a number of deputies who are interested in the project and who are its authors and coauthors, they are now attending an international conference in Poland. And we agreed in this way to remove and transfer at their request on Monday. On Monday, after the Conciliation Council, meet the faction leaders, agree, and then, if the agreement is to bring it into the session room. But we haven't got to the schedule yet, I haven't got there yet, Peter Stepanovich. I take your complete criticism. For the reasons of Hennady Andrievich Vasiliev, please
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u30	Dear fellow national MPs! You're accusing me of breaking the Rules yesterday. Of what, exactly? Let's take care of this. First of all, Deputy Carmazin does not approve what we voted yesterday in our second reading of the law against the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. Indeed, we did not vote in an articlelike manner, as provided for by the Rules, but this decision was taken by the Conciliation Council, on which we agreed to set up a working group to work out the bill and to put it under a separate procedure, namely, the deletion of individual articles. That's what was done. So we voted on what the committee and the working group proposed. On three occasions, a working group from this bill was assembled. She's never had a Deputy Carmazin. The second question regarding Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk’s comments on the ad hoc procedure, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, regarding the second reading of the draft budget for 2003. [[Yes, there will be a replica, please listen.]] Indeed, according to the Rules and the Budget Law, there should be discussion and adoption, approval of the deficit, the surplus of the income and expenditure portion of the budget. But on each of these issues, MPs have the right to make decisions here in the hall. We called it the ad hoc procedure. We might not call it an ad hoc procedure, really, it only applies to the Supreme Council Rules. However, in each case concerning the procedure, the deputies may make a separate decision by 226 votes. And it's legal, it's true, and we've accepted it, and not once, and we've voted. And tell me, how many times do you and I, on the second reading, vote in general for the draft law without an article vote? And no one has any questions about that. Another question. As far as breaking the line of questioning is concerned. Indeed, this is contrary to the Rules, article 3.1.7. It really is. But how many times do you, MPs, approach and suggest that you first consider such a question or question? So the initiative comes from you. As for today's session, here I've calculated, we've only started working with you, I've already counted 4 violations of the Rules: this is about both voting, and for reasons, and other matters. [[by Finish]] So let's hold back on each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u31	Gennady Andriyovich, let's not have any decomps in the session room. There is a Conciliation Council for this. Now we're getting involved in these unnecessary excavations. Wait, I'm asking you to sit down. Yuri Anatolyevich, let's make a deal, we'll take one day for you to come out one day, maybe you'll calm down. There are other people. Calm down. National Deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u32	I emphasize, I know the Rules very well. And I say how this is provided for by the Rules and the legislative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u33	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear friends. I would simply like to make such an application for a short period of time in connection with the fact that the city of Morshin has been added to the cities of regional importance, that its budget as cities of regional importance will only be formed in 2004, because we voted in a second reading yesterday, and all transfers of local budgets have already been accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u34	I think that's a very good point. Please, Mastermaster, and then Karmazin and Martinyuk and we'll work. We still need to vote on the parliamentary motions, please. And don't call each other names, now there'll be lines in everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u35	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mystrishyn, head of the State Debt Subcommittee. Dear colleagues, the fact that we ratified the 0054 agreement reduces our spending on capital construction for the next year to 284 million dollars to make you realize what we're doing. We voted yesterday on the budget balance and we no longer have the right to change the amount of government debt. So we have to cut the surplus by capital construction. That's what I wanted to say for the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u36	Thank you. National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u37	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. "Our Ukraine," "Solidarity," the Party "Protectors of Motherland." Dear Chairman, Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Now the National MP Vasiliev, instead of apologizing to the people's deputies for having "raped" the Rules yesterday, violated the rights of the people's deputies, put them up. Distorted the actual vote on most of the agenda issues and disrupted the normal work of the session, started blaming individual deputies, including me. He's replacing the idea of a law-making group that I'm not invited to once. This one I'm officially saying that I've never received any invitations, that's the first time. It's different. Every national MP whose amendments are not included in the law on legalization and the laundering of "dirty" funds, which is simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u38	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u39	Counterfeit this law, I emphasize again, and yesterday we placed it without any consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u40	Unplug the microphone. Dear colleagues and distinguished national deputy Karmazin! The Conciliation Board has repeatedly announced when, how, in which form, a meeting will be held to reconcile positions on a paper to combat money-laundering. We need to get insider information personal about you. Please, Deputy Martínjuk. Yuri Anatolyevich, it's been a minute. You said we considered it. Please, Adam Martinyuk, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u41	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Gennady Andriyovich is absolutely entitled to the replica he made. But there is one thing. Then on the basis of what the working group decides, let's enter the know-how and not hold any sessions at all, but what the working group decides, without voting in the hall, is to adopt as a law. The other one. About how ad-hok changes. Ad-hoc, we have the right to vote only on the Rules. As far as the budget code is concerned, we couldn't undo it by ad-hoc. Or they could vote. But send this amendment to the President's signature, wait for him to sign the amendments to the law and then do what they did. And the last. I agree with what really, Hennaday Andriyovich, not once in this room we've passed on questions both in the back and forth and so on and so on and so forth and made other derogations from the Rules, but on one condition -- when there was no objection in the hall, when the hall almost unanimously agreed to it and then we can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since we do not have a request under the Rules of Procedure today, if you do not object, we would vote in order to ensure that they do not lose their relevance. Is there no objection? Then came a request from Ukraine’s national deputies: Samylik, Orzhachowski, to the acting minister of emergency situations and to protect the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[on the creation of a Chernobyl rehabilitation centre in the Herson region]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:40]] For 199 For 199, the decision is made. Victor Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on tax compensation for the added value of Zacarpathian enterprises. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:08]] For 112 For -112, the decision is made. Oleg Panasovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the state-owned enterprise "Shakhta 2-bis" of the Ministry of Industrial Policy of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:33]] For 109 Decision taken. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the withdrawal of income tax from the province’s citizens in the Plains region in connection with force majeure. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please be supportive. [[10:40:00]] For-200 Decision taken. Anatolysa Moroz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of a criminal case committed by fraud in connection with the "Friendship" of the Tokmatic district of Zakmatsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:40:27]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Yuri Shirka and Sergey Alexiyuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations committed by the branch of the state-owned company Westwiszbod in the operation of a residential building in the city of Raven. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:40:57]] For 115 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Pavlovrad and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Dnipropetrovsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:41:24]] For-151 Decision taken. Mikli Pesocki to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine regarding the return of debt to the Veres company through the Samsonic-West mine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:41:50]] For-127 For - 127, the decision is made. John Ivancho to the head of the U.S. State Tax Administration on tax compensation for the added value of limited liability societies located in the Zakartat region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:42:18]] For 124 Decision taken. Paul Silent to the head of the Donetsk district government regarding the threat of the destruction of the object of the cultural heritage of the mosaic virgin "Women-Fats", located in the city of Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:42:49]] For a-117. Decision taken. What, what? From Semenyuk, please, or from procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u43	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, very interesting. You read the request. Is this precisely the icon that John Sidorovich spoke of yesterday about the portrait of Yanukovic in the Donetsk region in the church. Perhaps there will be another church denomination there tomorrow. Explain that question yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I think we're interested in him. Let's send in the factions, the contents of the inquiry, but, uh, Les Stepanovitch, please, Tanjuk. Let's get to work, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u45	Tanuk, faction of our Ukraine. No, this has nothing to do with it, this is about the 1968 mosaic sold by McDonald. McDonald was sneezing at our mosaics and destroying it. So the point is to cut out this large fresco and bring it to the museum. It's been going on for a month and a half, and McDonald's isn't affected, but the fresco needs to be saved. This is the fresco of the late Alla Gorsky, Zarecki, awarded by the Shevchenk Prize.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees is being submitted to your consideration in accordance with the schedule of meetings. Reporter of the People's Deputy Wolinitz. The profile committee proposes the following rules: reports - within 5 minutes, answers to questions to the reporter - by 5, for the co-report - 3 minutes, to answer the question to the co-rapporteur - 3 minutes, discussion, decision-making - 5 minutes. Is there no objection? Please, Michael Jacobovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u47	Dear People’s Deputies! Article 16 of the Act on Occupational Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities on the Legalization of Professionals contradicts Article 36 of the Constitution, which states that professional associations are formed without prior permission on the basis of the free choice of their members. Article 2 of ILO Convention 87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provides that workers have the right to create their own choice of organization without prior authorisation, and the right to join such organizations with one purpose: to subordinate the statutes of these organizations. According to article 3 of this convention, workers’ organizations have the right to organize their apparatus and activities freely and to formulate their own agenda. And the state authorities must refrain from any interference they can limit this right or hinder its legitimate exercise. At the same time, the current legislation in article 16 of the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities provides that for negotiations to be conducted at the appropriate level of contractual regulation of the labour, socio-economic relations of the trade union, their organizations, trade union unification are subject to legalization, formal recognition by way of registration of the registered status. The registration of all-U.S. trade unions, their mergers are carried out by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, other trade unions, and their integration with the appropriate administrations of justice. The current edition violates the principle of tripartism regarding equality of partners because the State within the Ministry of Justice gives or does not consent to collective bargaining. This provision of the law is contrary to civil law restricts the legal personality of a legal person, since at the same time this article establishes that the trade union acquires the rights of a legal person from the time the statute is approved, and from this point on, the Civil Code must be fully enforceable. To bring the provisions of the law into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 18 October 2000 No. 11 and the International Conventions of ILO, I propose article 16 to read: "Professions, their organizations and associations are not registered. Legalization of trade unions, their organizations, and their associations is carried out through the provision of appropriate documents. Withdrawal from the establishment protocol, statute or position of the State Statistical Authority according to the status of the association at the location of its elected governing body. The primary professional organizations in enterprises, institutions and organizations, services or training are formed without any permission and are legalized by means of a report of the owner or authorized body or manager of the enterprise, institution, organization." Honorary colleagues, also in the bill proposed for your consideration, are expected to remove the position of article 39 — the employer’s right to release an employee without the consent of the elected trade union body, since this is contrary to article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, narrows the scope of existing, protected citizens’ rights and gives the employer the right to determine the validity of the refusal of the electoral body of the trade union. These changes and additions to the law are supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the Committee on Legal Policy. At the same time, the Freedom Committee and the International Labour Organization Association recommended that the Government of Ukraine take effective measures to enforce the law in accordance with Conventions No. 87 and No. 98 and inform the international organization of the work on this matter. The director of the Department of Freedom of Uniting the Department of International Labour Standards, Bernard Gernigor, requested the Committee on Social Policy and the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the bill under consideration, gave a positive answer. Honorable National MPs. Please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, there is a question. Please sign up. Put it on the board. People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u49	Your Honor, of course, this bill is necessary and will have to be supported, and I urge the people's deputies to do so, especially in the first reading. There may be some nuances, we can work out all of that. But what I am interested in is what happened to the destruction of trade unions, free and independent unions in eastern Ukraine, in Pavlovrad, can this law protect? Because in that state where the main organizers of the trade union government are the authorities, can this law protect those workers and workers who are part of this union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u50	First, there must be law, and we must work within the law. As to the situation and the dismemberment of the organizations in Pavlovgrad, Pervomayski, and Ternivci, they even went to registration in public authorities, regardless of the fact that the law itself violated the International Labour Organization Convention Nos. 87 and 98. It was simply a mockery of the prosecution and the police. And it's clear that the President, the Prime Minister of many international organizations, is now being protested in quite a hard form, because I just don't know the same kind of practice in a civilized world, for example, in Western Europe or America, or Canada.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u51	National Deputy Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear Michael Yakovich, indeed, the adoption of this bill will be brought into line with the requirements laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court. But I have these two questions. Is it appropriate to translate the legalization of trade unions into state statistical bodies, because today it is the State Enterprise and Information Centre of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Will it lead to additional spending on government funds? And the second question. So I didn't realize whether I was justified in the last paragraph of article 39 of the law on the removal of the owner's right to relieve the employee of his position in the event of a gain from the union, I would stress that there was an unjustified refusal of consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u53	Let me start with the second question, this is article 39. The point is that we have many examples of a worker being just fired, and the underlying mechanisms themselves are neither written nor foreseen. In order to remove this conflict, therefore, so that these issues are not brought to justice and are not prolonged, it is suggested that this article be made clear and consistent. And I'm asking you the first question. I'm sorry. Indeed, there was such a practice in Ukraine that the Committee on Statistics accepted reports of the creation of trade unions and assigned the appropriate code. But the Public Organizations Act stipulates that registration should also take place at the Ministry of Justice. For my part, I would not deny that if such a message had to be submitted to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u54	National MP Nosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u55	Thank you. Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Mr. Anatoly Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u56	Anatoly Nastawayko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u57	There's a faction of communists. Dear Mikhail Yakovlevic, please tell me what position of international organizations, such as the International Labour Organization, regarding violations of Convention No. 87 in Ukraine, “The right to freedom of association? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u58	Thank you, Your Honor, for such an interesting question. The point is, as early as 1999, with such violations, a law was passed, and the ILO Committee of Experts and the Association Committee expressed a strong protest against our government and asked Parliament to amend the law. In addition, 188 members of the people’s past vocations signed a petition to the Constitutional Court and, in addition, the Supreme Council for Human Rights of Nina Karpachov, Commissioner for Human Rights, also appealed to the Constitutional Court in connection with the violation of international standards and rights of organizations and citizens in Ukraine as a result of this law. In this connection, the Constitutional Court ruled that articles 11 and 16 did not comply with the Constitution, and the Constitutional Court proposed that the Supreme Council make changes. The changes were made and the corresponding concessions were made in 11 articles, although there may be some questions to arise, and as far as the 16 articles are concerned, the same violations were transferred again because of changes to the law, and they also violated the 98th International Labour Organization Convention - the right to negotiate, conclude contracts, a tariff agreement and so on, which deprives the fundamental rights of defence, the fundamental rights of trade unions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u59	Thank you, Mikhail Yakovic. Time's up. Thank you. The National MP Hara is invited to report. From the committee, please, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! I want to say to you that this bill is not as simple as it may seem. The battalions around the 11th and 16th articles of the Trade Unions Act have been conducted since the time of the project. And after the adoption of a law that is almost five years from now, a number of people's deputies in 2000 applied to the Constitutional Court for the non-constitutionality of the 11th and 16th articles of the law already in force. On 18 October, the Constitutional Court adopted part of the request for members of the people. On 20 December 2001, we amended the law in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court and, on the proposal of the people's deputies, a number more, in my opinion, very significant changes, and our decision to amend the law with you were in full conformity with the decision of the Constitutional Court. National MP Mikhail Jakovlevic Wolinec, President of the Independent Union of Mines of Ukraine, proposed an amendment to article 16. On the committee, we considered this issue and decided to support the proposal of the people's representative, because if, in a large way, it was said that 99 trade union organizations in Ukraine had practically registered, some of them had not been registered and, of course, such egregious ones were difficult to call lawless, they were barbaric acts, such as those taking place in western Donbassa, in Pavlovgrad with regard to a trade union organization. Well, we hope that the changes that the people's MP proposes to make to the law, that they will in any way further protect trade union organizations from arbitrary power. Once again, the Committee has supported the initiative, once again, a mixed initiative by the People's Deputy Wolinz and requests you to support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u61	If you have a question, please sign up. Please point it on the board. The People's Deputy of Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u62	Dear Vassil Grigorovitch, and my colleague, and the leader, and the one who will report for me today. You know, we've been with you for so many years, I've worked in conditions where there was no trade law. And we didn't have a question to settle or settle, registration or legalization? That's not what we're doing. Well, what did I mean? We should probably develop the concept of legalization and registration. The thing is that today is very, I think it's balanced and according to all trade union conventions, it's written that it's legalized by a message. But then there's a situation of registration in the place of residence, on the same level as, let's say, the administration is already here the word "registration." And some people realize that it's a violation of rights and freedoms, that we register trade unions, we register an act, or a fact, or an event that is a trade union. So let's maybe compromise on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u63	Ask questions, please. You've been formulating for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u64	Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u65	Well, here's the question, frankly, I don't understand very clearly, Your Honor Leonid Mikhailovich, but that's what I'd say. With regard to registration, which relates to the authorization to form a primary organization or trade union, the law does not contain such a rule. It is a registration for conformity of status in order to obtain a certain status, an organization from its primary and, at the end of all Ukraine, to negotiate the level at which it is subject to the status of its organization. Because today a lot of legislation, including the trade union law, is mentioned by the social insurance laws that we have adopted with you, where the management of these funds many issues of collective relations contracts are set at the level of the State, the employer and the relevant trade union organization. In order to determine the level to which a trade union organization can proceed, this is also reflected in the bill. With regard to, say, violations of the Constitution, I do not see these violations in any case, as there is no need to take preliminary authorization from the organization in order to register its original organization. But there are some inconveniences about the existence of such a rule, because it is the same as in life, including in the relationship of trade unions, that any public apparatus, a servant, can treat a situation in a proper manner. Therefore, it is very often necessary to clarify what an article in the trade union law means. But once again, there is a legalization conversation here in the form of registration not to permit the existence of an organization, but to conform to the status claimed by the organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u66	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u67	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky district, Rava Ruska, Lvivščina The Honorable Reporter, the Independent Trades Act, understandably, puts the cross in the subsidiaries. I'm going to support this bill and call on my colleagues to support it, because it's a new breakthrough in our trade movement. I have a very practical, practical question for you as one of the leaders of the union movement. In the center of Novoyavorovska, this is my constituency, there are signs of nuclear war. For several years an unfinished factory was built in the center of the city. The trades of our so-called addicts. For 10 years it's all in such an elaborate way, the unions don't give it away, and the local authorities can't do anything about it. So tell me, where is the exit? Is it easy to break this factory's brick, spray it, set it on fire, destroy it? What can we do about it? I'm being asked by my constituents. Thank you for the complete answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u68	The issue of the relationship of property, including trade union property, is very complex, as in the State, and in the trade union. My attitude towards the policies of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine with regard to their own. more negative than positive. We are, as far as your factory is concerned, who should decide whose property it is, what is the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions or independent trade unions? These are regular members of the union with their contributions, with the tasks they set for organizations at any level. Therefore, in this case, I think that this issue should be brought to the attention of the trade union assembly and the trade union conference of the local community, they are part of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine. And what will be the solution must be reasonable and final. Another case is that the Regional Council of Trade Unions or the Industry Committee of Trade Unions, or that organization that will take decisions, should encourage the Federation to take those decisions and issue relevant documents. Because the actual owner of trade union property today is a legal entity of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, in the presence of the Chairman of the Central Committee of the Union and the chairmen of regional associations of regional trade union councils or federations, as they are called. And the property must be treated with care, of course, not like a dog in a haystack. It should work and benefit the same regular members of the trade union, whose funds are usually built on any property of trade unions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u69	Thank you. Time's up. We've already moved. Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Prepared for Paul’s day. Well, what can I do, Catherine Simeonna? Regulation. Well, there's nothing I can do. I'd like to ask your colleagues, but we're working today until the meeting schedule is exhausted. So it's... it's... And it's different, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich didn't want to take the right to a replica because you used my name in a negative way. I have taken my stand against the violations of the Rules and I will take my stand against them, and no Board of Conciliation will ever change the Constitution, change the Status Act, or change the Rules. I would like to be remembered by all who sit in this bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u71	I've already written it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u72	This is the first time. Please. Thank you. Second, honourable national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine. The question that Deputy Wolintz has just raised has become more than that. He raised him in connection with the banditry that took place in Donetsk, Luhansk, during the 1999 presidential election. I met him in person, I met the unions, I saw the problems, I saw what was happening in the mines, I saw people being released. And every norm that comes out of these proposals, it's definitely caused by this. Then, in 2000, there was the Constitutional Court’s decision. And thank you, Deputy Wolin, for raising those questions. The positive thing, of course, will be what will be brought into line with article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine. But I would like to warn both Deputy Wolintz and us from the fact that we can go so far to the hoax in the sense that it was once served by Soviet propaganda. This is a scam, I'm saying, in a bad way, it might be at a time like this. First. The legalization body cannot refuse to accept statutory documents even if they do not correspond to the designated status of the organizations. It's dangerous, it can't be supported, because any refusal can be charged in a court of law. The other one. It is not possible to exclude from the last paragraph of article 39 a provision concerning the removal of the owner or the authorized authority of the right to release an employee from his or her position in the event that the trade union gives an unjustified refusal in agreement with the dismissal of an employee. Any refusal must be motivated. That's understandable. And then she can sue in court. Otherwise, it would lead to another, a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the law, and then give the right to trade unions that would violate the rights of other people, thereby absoluteizing the rights of trade unions. This should also be ruled out. If these inadequacies are removed from the text of the law, it will certainly be a very good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u73	Thank you. Mikhailo Anatoliyovich Flood. Pavlovsky. I'm sorry, I almost said Floodsky again. Today, the concert must have been a huge one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, even journalists, there are few of them. I want to get my attention, and it would be interesting for journalists to know that this little question has a huge impact. And I'll start. Two aspects. First. Notice, Ukraine naturally is a rich nation with talented people, but it has such a paradox, on the one hand, that Ukraine's representatives are among the leaders, the first ten richest people in Europe, and, on the other hand, the whole population is one hundredth of the poorest people on Earth. That's the paradox. Why? Because in Ukraine, the very weak trade unions, more specifically, are not the interests of the people, but the interests of the authorities, which are very often engaged in such a conformal policy. Because it is easy to buy, influence, heal, and pressure that the authorities can negotiate with just one member of the trade unions today. So, like all over the world, trade unions have to be independent of power. And that's what this law says. I agree that there's a little bit of redefinition to avoid really different extremes, but in general, we have to accept it. With regard to the Donetsk region, we have hope, if we are optimistic, when Yanukovic has already broken out of the Donetsk region, he is now. might be less dependent on those clans there, and they could be influenced so that really democratic development and the unions could take the right place in the Donetsk region. If he didn't break out and become a representative of these clans in the government, well, then it'll be even worse, yeah. Well, let's hope for the better. So I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading, it's small, very fast to work out, and literally in a week it can be adopted in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll decide when we vote. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Support for the Olympic, Paralympic and Higher Achievement Sports in Ukraine is being introduced. The following rules are proposed: the reporter and the co-reporter - up to 3 minutes, the answers to the questions - in the same way as 3 minutes and the discussion - 5 minutes. The questions have been answered, there are all the relevant conclusions. Please, Vasil Georgievich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! I am a member of the National Olympic Committee of Ukraine and head of the Donetsk office and I know nothing about the problems of the Olympic Movement. We've had great success. This year, under the auspices of the National Olympic Committee, there is a 50th anniversary of the participation of Ukrainian athletes in the Olympics in Helsinki for the first time. We won 16 gold, 6 silver and 6 bronze medals during this period. But there were other results, like the past games in Sydney. It is a public disgrace both to the State as a whole and to all the regional teams, including, regrettably, the princess I represent. A recent meeting was held by the State Committee to prepare for the 2004 Athens Olympics, and you may have heard and seen the President very strongly criticize the Government and the public for the failure that has led us to another Olympic game. The purpose of my bill is to create conditions for the successful training and participation of Ukrainian assembly teams in the Olympic, Paralympic games, and the training of young people in sports in the spirit of the Olympics. He decides. First and foremost, because we are poor in sports. The United States and, say, the Australian team spend hundreds of times on training their athlete than we do in Ukraine. It decides on the financial and logistical support of the sport of excellence. Second. Direct funding of the Olympic training bases used for training and training with students at the Olympic Sports School. Third. Funding of programmes for the direct training and participation of members of the Ukrainian assembly team in the Olympic Games. Fourth. Although not significant, it is essential to support the highest-class athletes and coaches of Ukrainian assembly teams who have been awarded prizes for participating in and winning high-level competitions. And the fifth. Establish tightly transparent control over the use of the means. The law has a number of shortcomings and inaccuracies. They were not mentioned at the meeting of the relevant committee, and I fully and fully agree with them. And we have come up with a concerted solution to address all the shortcomings of the bill in preparing it for second reading. The Olympic cycle is four years old. Four and no less. Because there are schedules for training athletes, timetables for participation in competitions, all of this requires some funding. Today we have a chance or a chance to repeat the disgrace that took place in the past Olympic season or to do everything we can to make the remaining time, and you know that in Athens on 13 August 2004, regular Olympics begin. We have no right to be disgraced there again. Therefore, I would very much like to support the bill in its first reading so that it can be seriously worked out as quickly as possible to accept it and allow it to be properly prepared for the Olympics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u77	Thank you. Will there be questions for Vasil Grigorovitch? Please, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Reporter, Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, "Our Ukraine". There are several disabled homes in my constituency, and I have been approached by a whole group of people who live there, so that the influence of the Paralympic sport is spread to these houses, where recently, for your information, the canceled position of coaches at the Badminton, in other sports that were mainly occupied by the mentally ill housing of these buildings. How do you solve this problem in your bill? Does it even provide for the extension of the bill to other forms of disability other than those in the Parisian direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u79	Thank you. That's a very good question. By the way, our paralympics have done much better at the next Olympics, have shown an example, sorry for the comparison, the healthy, the full-blown man's powers, how to do it. That's the first one. Second. National MP Suškević is the president of the Parolempic Committee, a member of the National Committee, and has done much for the development of the Parisian species. The bill is primarily about support for species that are officially and in the Olympic and Parlympic species. But here, I have already mentioned this, all the sports organizations involved in the development of physical culture and sport are supported, including not yet the Olympics. The Olympic movement is very dynamic. Today there is no sport, and tomorrow it will appear. We must therefore prepare for the Olympic Games, significantly expanding the range of sports, including parolympics.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u80	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please. Turn on Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u81	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear reporter! Dear colleagues! Kirilenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. This law was developed in the past. I was then the head of the relevant committee of the Supreme Council. And I call upon all of you, and we must support this bill in an orderly manner. In a pitiful condition, the Olympic bases, the meager wages of train-at-home trainers, on the food-maintenance of athletes on something that today is impossible to speak for. Even our central Olympic base today is on the verge of closure. Dear colleagues! There will be no success of sports in Ukraine unless we adopt effective means of supporting the national Olympic, the Parisian movement at the legislative level. The positions that are in this law are exactly in line with that task. I'm just calling. I did not sign up for the talk, but I simply urge my brief presentation to uphold this law. Without this, there will be no sports glory in Ukraine. I'm not talking about rural sports anymore. I'm talking about kids' sports schools. I, my colleagues, am asking you to do so with conviction. Our faction will unanimously support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u82	Thank you very much. I'd like to add 10 seconds to that. For one more reason, we cannot be part of the disgrace that we have been in for the past time. The only party to the International Olympic Committee is 2 representatives and our great athlete, Sergey Nazarovich Bubka, who sits. He's really big, he's sitting here, he's a member of the general, and I can only imagine how ashamed he is to sit in an interview when the results are being considered when the preparations for the Olympic Games are being considered and the lines of Ukraine are being drawn. In every sense, if we consider ourselves a civilized sports power, we need to do something to get out of the disgrace that we are in today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u83	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Samuel Yekaterina Semenovna will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! Well, we have the law of Ukraine, we passed it, John Grigorovich, when you were already Minister of the APC, we passed the law with the same name. But of course, it's time to confirm that we also need to expand considerably what Deputy Bondarenko said and that's why we're bringing out and thanking Vasil Grigorovitch Harry for being the initiator of the adoption of the law. In recent years there have been negative trends in the financing of physical culture and sports. This certainly leads to the destruction of the high-class athletes’ training system and their participation in international competitions of various levels and reduces sports skills. We are all witnesses to this. In 2000, the Supreme Council passed a law on support for the Olympic, Paralympic and Higher Achievement Sports Act, which provided for the creation of favourable conditions for the participation of non-encumbered funds in the preparation and participation of Ukrainian athletes in the Olympic and Paralympic games. However, the act of individual articles of this law is suspended and begins to work a year before the Olympics. Of course, a year before the Olympics of any Olympic athlete, we will not be able to prepare. And in the budget, we really don't have enough money. There are not enough 100 million to provide annual training for high-class athletes for world champions, Europe, the Olympics, the Paralympics, and to support and develop the material and technical base of sports objects need at least 40 million dollars. Here's how they create these conditions, and they're going to let you solve these urgent needs that are necessary. In the bill, bills deserve to take note of legislative proposals to stimulate sports, higher achievements, and better train athletes to participate in the Olympic and Paralympic games. First of all, in the Committee's opinion, the most important proposal is that it removes the limitations of its laws, their effect in time, not in a year, but throughout the entire Olympic cycle. It's different. In the 3rd article of the bill, it proposes to increase from 20 percent to 40 percent of the amount of income tax that tax payers can add to the special accounts of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance: "Olympic Ukraine."America Paralympics.".. In doing so, there remains a rule of law regarding the taking into account of these costs, a reduction in the taxpayer’s tax liability. And third. The proposal to release the income tax from the Ukrainian President's scholarship not only for the champions but also for the Olympic and Paralympic players deserves support. I'm talking to my colleagues from the Ukrainian National Deputies, today, really, Ukraine, I've already said, they know about corruption, on the other hand, but the only positive thing about today is raising the flag of the State, is our sporting achievements. And so I propose not to embarrass our state, not to embarrass the citizens of the state and our athletes, I consider it necessary to adopt this law and to create the necessary conditions for what Ukraine has returned, indeed, the glory of sports that it had before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u85	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Light up, please. School. School of Andrey Volodymyrovich Is there a school?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u86	There's me, of course. School Andriy Vasilovich, Yuli Timoshenko Block, UNA-UNSO. Well, you know, of course you have to adopt this law, I'm not going to argue here. But the victory of athletes is not based on how many laws we adopt good or bad, but on that material influence, the influence in the development of sports that we have to make. That's all that matters, I think. Because I don't care how many states don't give money for years -- or one year before the Olympics, or four years. You know what state she's got, what athletes she's got. If the state doesn't want to do it, of course, we can force it, but here we have to work on the rest of the laws that encourage both sponsoring and taxing businesses that invest money in sports, into youthful, childish. You know, young people and stuff. That is, a whole list of necessary laws. And I think it needs to be accepted, but it has to be part of a whole set of laws. Don't you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u87	I completely share your thoughts. It's this law that we're about to present, our committee, that's exactly what it's about to do to get the state to spend money on preparing athletes first. And he's pursuing this particular goal. And what needs to be done is, of course, a whole set of laws. But it is essential that those heads of our state committees, ministries, vice-premiers also feel responsible and contribute to the allocation of money. It's no different than a disgrace to call yesterday's decisions that we're suspending at the time of the adoption of the State Budget we're suspending the Ukrainian law with the same name that we adopted in 2000. So we're completely giving up the support of sports and the Olympics.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u88	Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich. More concise, please don't be able to ask everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u89	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party The great Catherine Semenovna, for example, I don't understand from the explanatory note to the bill why the central executive body on physical culture and sports is actually being removed from the Olympic and Paralympic activities, and this is particularly evident from the issues of who is funding. That's the first question I'd like to hear from him. And the second question. The bill provides for an increase from 20 percent to 40 percent of the income tax as a taxpayer to be counted for special accounts of "Olympic Ukraine", "Parolympic Ukraine". But the project does not provide for appropriate changes to article 22, paragraph 22, of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income. How can we do that? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u90	Thank you. Why such a central authority position? Because there's a very complex question, a personnel question. As long as we're dividing between factions and a party of positions in the Cabinet of Ministers, excuse me, please, as long as there's such an attitude towards the fields. And that's why it's a personnel issue. That's the first question. The others. We also have doubts in the committee, and we think we should leave 20 percent, so. There will be a lot of questions, and we will work together on this issue before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u91	Orzhachovsky Anatoly Volodymyrovich. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u92	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear Catherine of Simeon! The bill that supports your committee, and I support it, I will vote accordingly, but I would like to know how many coaches have left Ukraine and what are the reasons for the outflow of not only coaches but also athletes? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u93	Over the last three years, more than 20 outstanding, I stress, the great coaches of Ukraine have left our country. First of all, material again, Andrew is right here, the reason is material. Zubrilova is going to Belarus because there are tools and conditions and wages and so on. It is a shame for Ukraine, so we anticipate the material encouragement of those who can bring honor and glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u94	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. Please. We need to get ready early, Yuri Anatolyovich, you're going to have to delay everyone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, the law that is being passed is very serious, very important, and I support it conceptually. I'm conceptually supporting things that fit current legislation. The goal of my performance is a little different. I want to draw your attention to the things that will help make the holes in our budget, the lattices in our border, and that will contribute to the laundering of some of the funds. I'd just like to pay attention to these things so the committee can clean them up with the other committees. What is it? The project does not provide for changes to article 22 of the Law on Corporate Income Taxation, but it should be foreseen, which means that other committees, such as economic and budgetary, should be involved. Next. According to the legislation, the funds involved in these special accounts of Ukraine of the Olympics and Ukraine of the Paralympics are included in the special fund of the state budget as the coming of the National Olympic Committee. But this situation is contrary to current budgetary legislation. We take the budget every year. For every year, not for four years! And there's a huge problem here, the problem is that we have to stick to the budget, the budget code. And it's a clear violation, it's unresponsive. Next. The costs of the State Budget are clearly defined, and I think in this law it's necessary to make a little distinction between Olympic and Paralympic, because what's relevant to the disabled is sacred. This should be made more sacred, and it should be made less sacred. That would be socially fair. And the second. The ploughs. The benefits of repossessing funds, such as voluntary donations to special accounts of organizations that provide for the development of the Olympic movement, are not provided for by valid tax legislation. Secondly, with the tax and tax system law, taxes and benefits can only be established by laws. And third, not later than six months before the start of the new fiscal year. And it starts from the beginning of the new fiscal year. This needs to be settled. In general, if all of these things are removed and all of them are removed, the law can be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u96	Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u97	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." I would like not only to support this bill but to say so. That the situation that we have today with the Olympic movement and the sport is a situation, I think, to a large extent, both political and economic, not narrowly sectoral. Today, in Ukraine, the approach is that sport is a business at a time when it's quite obvious that sport is part of a serious state policy. If we and we did research like that, I released a book somewhere in 92-93, where we made a concentration of foreign media, key foreign publications on a simple basis, what they're writing about Ukraine. It was built in branches, with positive, negative memories. So in the first city, with positive references to Ukraine, and this trend today, there are references to our Olympics, references to sports. Politics and economics are usually negative references to Ukraine. Thus, it is not necessary to be a prominent analyst to realize that today sport is a key element of Ukraine’s positive image. What would you have to do here? In my opinion, really, we don't need to focus on the development of the Olympic sport exclusively on budget funding. We understand that this does not bring out the problem. We need to change the logic of thinking and the conditions for engaging in advertising, sponsoring, and so forth. If nothing changes in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Olympic sport will, in effect, disappear, for one simple reason. Today it's a good time to do, say, the business of a football club. What does that do? Today it's just making money. If money is invested in an African or a Brazilian who becomes a symbol of the Ukrainian nation, why is money invested? Then it'll be convenient to sell it. It's cheap in Africa, it's expensive in Europe. We're not little children, we're very understanding. So it's not just business, it's a change of mind for both our children and our generation, because they're raised not on heroism, so let's say our Olympics, who walk and with their arms stretched out, when they're older, but on those people they're raised to be willing to sell later on. I think it's a really serious political, economic problem, and not only do we have to adopt this law, but we have to help build an understandable state policy, a state sports policy, where the whole country and business work for one football club, but where the whole state works for children's sports, youth sports, and that the Olympic champion in the country is a word that would undoubtedly be understood to be people who are the faces of this nation. And in the media, we didn't read scandalous stories about a new genius purchase for the Kyiv Dynamo, and then we read about the people who make the name of that nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u98	People's MP Gurov. Prepare Safiulin Ravila. Something we've been discussing for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u99	Thank you. Vadim Gurov, 32th constituency, Krivbas. Why did I come to this rostrum? Many MPs, full room, ask, I see, with the eyes, "Grow, what have you come to this rostrum?" I came out for one simple reason. I've seen the agenda. The first peak is the Olympic Games. And what we're going to do is we're going to look at the social development of young Ukraine. Same question. And the last question is, "Serving the Underage." So we started from the top, and the beginning of a great way to start with the service of the underage and so on and so forth. I want to tell you. This is where we talk a lot about the honor of our country. That's how we win the Olympics -- and the nation is going to be like this, 100 kilograms each, healthy! I don't think that's where we're going, not at all. You'll see what's happening to the young people we're preparing for the Olympics. We only make games for the Paralympics. But we don't prepare young people for the Olympics. Look, I'm giving it to Krivbass. In 1992, 1 out of every 10 had scoliosis, in 2002, 1 out of every 4 rocks was used to recruit someone into the army. Of course it's good to say. It's just that in the art of sports, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, take This is all necessary, and I will vote in favour of this law. But we need to look at the root of what we're doing. Go to school. You'll see the party, this is the older generation, when we were sitting, the growing party was: first the small party, finally, we'll talk, the gallery is a big party. Because kids and meters and meters and meters and meters and feet and feet. Now they've done everything: the tables. And that child, a meter tall child, bends in his age, doesn't twist the spine, he twists everything. The question is: Who invented this punishment for our children? Let's see what's going on. Of course, it is easier to say: drug abuse, illness, and poor nutrition. I'll be all over the place, just give me one minute so I don't speak anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u100	Well, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u101	I know what I'm saying. So what I'm saying is, we have to look at the root. Why our generation of elders were strong and look at how much they won in gymnastics and sports. But it's the same generation of those years, I emphasize those years. What, did we eat better in 1947, 1948? Is there anything better? It was nothing like that. No TV back then, no computers. It's the only thing kids are sitting on right now. How Can I Correct the Question? Question one. No sport can get us out, we have to get out of physical education. It's different things, by the way! Of course, we've done our third football lesson, and right now, at least stay down. He wants to do gymnastics, and he's told, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The bottom line is, we need to develop talent at school. How can we develop if I talk about our city, not the last city, but the first one, the Curve Horn. All right, here I am. But not the last one. I want to tell you, if you go to school, there's no ball, there's no volleyball net, there's no basketball. So what are we talking about about our pride? That we're gonna show our cousin's mother at the Olympics. Where are we going to get them?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u103	So in order to cook the Olympics, we need, like Kuzma Prutkov, "look at the root." If we don't do it anyway, BTO is what's called "physculture" and we don't remove scoliosis, I think that "we're not going to go high with a pole," because they're units, and we need a healthy people. Today, children, tomorrow the people of Ukraine. He needs to be healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u104	Thank you. Ravil Safiullin. Get ready, Beetles. That's it. From where? Please turn on Safiulin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I don't think it's necessary to convince you that our athletes, the Olympics, and not only at the most prestigious competitions of the world, but above all, our State. At the same time, the bright victories of athletes play an invaluable role in raising an adult generation. But all this is possible only if decent conditions are created, I mean in terms of organizing a training and training process, in terms of participating in various kinds of competitions, both European and world-wide, for our leading athletes. But that is certainly not possible without the appropriate support of the State. The law under consideration is aimed primarily at improving public policy in the development of sport of excellence. Given that a series of competitions have already begun where athletes receive Olympic licences, the Olympics and the Paralympics themselves are far behind, and I appeal to the people's deputies, I will not divert your attention. I would like to conclude by asking for the support of the law adopted today. Please support his admission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u106	Thank you. People's MP Bubka Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u107	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The bill provides the opportunity to make changes that will contribute to the further development of children's sports, sports facilities of public, sports organizations of all forms of property, the use of extra-budgetary funds for the fruitful training of members of assembly teams and the next reserve for the next Olympic Games. Unfortunately, to date, only our State is the main source of financing for physical culture and sport. Since Ukraine's Act on Support for the Olympic and Paralympic Movement and Sport of Higher Achievements has been adopted, it is practically not working because of the lack of conditions to attract extra-budgetary funds for training athletes. To date, there is no Olympic training base in Ukraine that meets modern conditions, and international standards, today there are no conditions for the development of sport, children's sport, today's sports facilities cannot exist and they are closed. Therefore, the adoption of the bill will solve the problem of extra-budgetary funding, strengthening the logistics base, providing modern facilities and equipment for sports facilities, youth sports schools and national assembly teams. I ask you to support this bill and to adopt it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Support for the Olympic and Paralympic Movement and Sports, the higher achievements in Ukraine, has been completed. As for the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote. I'd like to ask that we don't take a break at 12 o'clock, we need to work out all of these bills that are scheduled for the sessions. You are being reviewed by a draft law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine. [[With regard to youth centers of work]] It's suggested that, your honor, nine minutes to consider this issue, the profile committee is planning: for the report, three minutes, questions and answers to the reporter, three minutes and a discussion, three minutes. Is there no objection? Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u109	In 2002, a number of articles of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine were amended, including the legal framework for the creation of youth labour centres to address youth employment issues and ensure its employment. There was an opportunity to finance the activities of youth labour centres at the expense of the Employment Promotion Fund that existed at the time. And since January 1, 2001, the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment" has become effective, which defines the fund as the successor of the State Employment Promotion Fund. And among the types of social services that are provided to the unemployed, and these functions are defined by the fund that existed before the adoption of the bill in 2001 the standard position was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The situation indicated is the interaction of youth employment centers with the State Employment Service. In 2001, last year, a network of youth labour centres began to develop actively and 18 youth labor centres were established and functioning in Ukraine as of 1 January of this year. The quality and scope of social services for young people in the labour market will increase considerably under the funding of youth labour centres, including through the state unemployment insurance fund. This is to some extent explained by the fact that by 2 and a half million officially registered unemployed in 2001 nearly a million young citizens under the age of 28. In 2002, out of 2 million, 700,000 unemployed youths were already fewer than 130,000. And although it's not a significant shift, but there are positive results, but there is a problem that every third unemployed person is a young person. In closing, I'd like to give you this information. 55 percent of those convicted in our country are teenagers and young people. In 2001, only 30,000 minors suspected of committing crimes were discovered, and the vast majority of them were nowhere to be studied or worked. And so if we don't give young jobs, of course, we'll continue to build prisons. The committee has reviewed the draft law and proposes to adopt it as a basis, and on Thursday as a whole, the next one, and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration supports our bill. I'd like you and your colleague to support me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u110	Thank you. Is there a question? Please sign in. Light up on the board. Orzhachowski, the Communist faction, please. Then Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear Catherine Semenovna, a bill to promote the social development and development of young people in Ukraine, I think, in time. When we listen to your report, it becomes difficult to learn about such terrible statistics that are in our country regarding youths who are already on the verge of failing to comply with Ukrainian laws at the beginning of their lives. Please tell us, what are the reasons for this moral condition for young people in our country today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u112	In fact, there are so many figures here, not just 50 percent of those convicted, they're young teenagers, but that 1 percent of the population in Ukraine is suffering from STD, but that tens of thousands of children are being denied by underground crossings. This is, of course, the first and the main question, is that the state does not give this very important matter any attention. And I have great hope that there will be some disturbances after the parliamentary readings, and we have to take with you a national program, a youth program where the state guarantees that we don't have children in our driveways, not on a drug needle, not on a small-age prostitution, but so that they can actually implement their abilities in Ukraine. So this is the attitude of the state, first. And secondly, the economic situation that is today and the material state of all of our families. These are the reasons, and you all know they need to be eradicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u113	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u114	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. Dear Catherine Simeonovna, you know that in Soviet times there was a situation where the employer reserved 5 percent of the jobs employed by the people for the first time. It was a basic guarantee for young people to be able to work, and it wasn't like today when a parent or a mother takes their child to work, whether she wants to work in this area or not, that is to say, it's not about providing guidance. Would it not be appropriate to reinstate these positions in Ukrainian legislation today, which would guarantee young people employment for the first time, especially important and difficult, because the period between school and the army is a period of imprisonment rather than work, usually.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u115	Thank you. Sadly, there is a portion of young people in Ukraine today who did not even hold the Trudov book in their hands. And with that approach, when that happens, we don't know. We've had a look at a bill from our young MP, Homutinnik, now he's in the hall, about the right of first place for young people. And we've adopted this bill, and I'm going to ask the Conciliation Council on Monday that we adopt this bill urgently, maybe even before the parliamentary readings, at least on the first reading. It's really important, and it's going to be support. And we have to anticipate a mechanism to keep children out of the mud and employ them, especially those who have no protection in the state at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u116	Yes, please, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u117	Please tell me, Your Honor Catherine, please tell me, do you see the need for a piece of work? For you said that you should receive immediately in the first and second readings. And I see what's here, what's there to work on, but you can only take it in the first place? Do you feel that he is a perfect bill? Although thank you for paying attention. And do you see any more of the causes of the problems that you've been talking about, in the spiritlessness, in the disillusionment, in that people today have started to understand that there's something else to do -- is there a bribe, or is there anything else that we're doing around here today? Now, do you see these differences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u118	Yuri Anatolyovich, I'd say we're only partially making an amendment, literally out of three sentences. I would still think that the first and second readings would have to adopt this law. This is, in principle, the law we make in connection with the law that was passed earlier. It's got to be done automatically. And what I really think is necessary to work on improving the law itself. And we're already working on others, but it's a very difficult way. And I also think, unfortunately, in Ukraine, that these problems that we're talking about right now, and we're going to talk about in the next bill, that's spiritlessness, that's ignorance, the same thing, and so on. And unfortunately, as long as this spiritual one is not present in our youth, Ukraine will have no future.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u119	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. National Deputy Alexandrovsky, Communist faction. Please. Dear colleagues, we also have the National Deputies Karmazin, Bondarenko, Yavorowski. I would ask quickly, since we agreed not to discuss this matter for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u120	Very briefly, yes, because I think the question is clear. And the problems we face in our lives, today, 70 per cent of our children's problems, are young people's problems. I will not talk about the increase in crime, I will talk about the responsibility of the State for the future development of both the people of Ukraine and the State of Ukraine. I therefore propose to support the Committee's proposal. The report made very clear and justified the need to enact such a law. I believe that our Hall will support this bill with a clear majority and calls on the MPs to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Sure. And you'll be from the rostrum, won't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. Of course, the problem of promoting the social development and development of young Ukraine is extremely important today. Sadly, this law is only a framework. And Catherine Semenovna certainly deserves to be thanked for what she does in her life. But we need to approach a more complex solution. A more complex solution to the problem is to give our first job, in order to solve the problems of immigration and the spread of immigration, we are now falling apart from our own people, and we do not appreciate them today. I don't want to talk a lot about positive, of course, this bill, I just want to say one sentence about negative. Article 1 of the Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young People, Youth Labour Centers are specialized government institutions, I stress, the word "States." If we reduce the cost of funding youth centers, that is, asking the question that they are financed only for the jobs they have done, that could lead to our government taking them and closing them down. And so we're going to have the next problem, the problem that exists, the problem of employment. That's why I'm saying that we only have to take first reading, and here we have to make a little warning. I'm not because Baba Yaga is against it. And, excuse me, I'll save another time for the other performances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u124	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. I want to say very briefly. When I asked Catherine the Seminal Questions, I was just pointing out that the experience of working with young people, which was not just in the creation of several, well, seventeen on Ukraine, the centers, is too little. You realize that you can do that in large centers, you don't even need one at a district center, it doesn't cover the problem. Legislative and regulatory provisions are needed to ensure that young people have their first job. Unfortunately, I do not yet see the bill referred to, but I will certainly add to it if there are no such positions, including certain tasks to the local self-government authorities, which are in the lowest, we will speak to structural administrative units: villages and villages, where this matter can be considered. Today, there is a terrible tragedy in the fact that children do not go where they want to go but where their parents work. But not all parents work, and they can’t just focus on the professions they prefer but go where they go. So this is a very important bill and this one that we're talking about, and this is the Hometic one that we're talking about here, and I'm calling on all the MPs to support these bills and give appropriate orders to the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and other state institutions that work in the field of youth welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u125	Vladimir Yakorowski. You'll be out of town? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u126	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". I, my dear colleagues, took the floor very briefly. This bill is, of course, to be adopted. He has absolutely no conflict whatsoever. The law is absolutely necessary. I actually didn't give up the word just to get your attention to one thing, and not just from my point of view, it's a very important problem -- to ensure the work of young specialists who finish their jobs. It is a colossal problem left by both the government and our authority left behind. And I would very much like everything to be in the protocol, in our transcript today. For example, the Ministry of Health has adopted such a circular that children who have graduated from State University and have learned to work at the expense of their budget. And those who were learning for their money said that they should look for a job for themselves. I think it's just a colossal problem, it's either a fantasy or a minister or his deputies, because the level of education and the level of education and the level of education and the level of education that is obviously exactly the same and the children have to get a job either on a competitive basis or on some other, because it's simply discrimination. I'm sure we'll accept this bill, it'll be very easy because it doesn't need any budgeting, it's all there. I am grateful to both the family and the young committee and our committee that proposed the bill. Thank you, and I think it'll be easy and easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! A review of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting Social Development for young people in Ukraine on Youth Work Centres has been completed. With regard to the decision, we will be determined by the vote. You are being reviewed by the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Organs and Services in Minors and Special Institutions for Minors. Rapporteur from the committee, head of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture and Sports, and Tourism, Andry Anatoliyevich Poliit. Please. Such regulations are proposed. Dear colleagues, I'll give you an announcement. For the report, within three minutes, the answers to the questions are five minutes and the discussion is within five minutes. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u128	Thank you very much. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The introduction of the 1995 Supreme Council Act on Juvenile Organs and Services and Special Institutions for Juveniles has contributed to some improvement in the criminogenic situation in the adolescent environment. The activities of the special structures established under the law were primarily carried out in the prevention plans for offences and crimes. As a result, there has been a slight decrease in the number of crimes committed by adolescents. At the same time, socio-economic instability in the State, severe property division in society, a certain dehumanization of education, in particular the artificial separation of it from education processes, the expansion of ways and spheres of non-working enrichment, the lack of normal conditions for social rehabilitation and treatment of young drug addicts and alcoholics, as well as many other negative phenomena in public life, have contributed to the increase of juvenile delinquency and crime. I'll try to justify this. In 2000, for example, the number of convicted adolescents increased by 13.4 per cent and reached 20,000. 1 out of every 10 exposed juveniles. Over the past decades, more than 477,000 juvenile crimes have been reported in Ukraine. Among these crimes, there remains a steady trend in the annual growth of types such as murder, deliberate serious bodily harm, theft and drug-related crimes. According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in 2001 only 5.3 thousand juvenile drug addicts were found and recorded. Compared to 1995, there has been an 11.5 increase in the number of underage girls held accountable for prostitution. Thus, new alarming trends have emerged in the youth environment. The permanent increase in the number of young offenders, including girls. Increase in drug-related crimes, trafficking in human beings, prostitution, begging. In view of such a rather sad prospect, we have made proposals to improve the law on organs and services for juveniles, to introduce some of its provisions in accordance with the legislation in force. In particular, it is proposed to expand the powers of criminal police units, juvenile services. Establish social rehabilitation schools in general, psychological and pedagogical correction centres, etc. Specific proposals are presented in the form of a rolling table for the bill, without a doubt all proposals, comments that will be submitted to the draft law will be considered and taken into account. At the same time, you should be informed that the Cabinet of Ministers has also tabled a legislative proposal to amend the Ukrainian law, in particular its immediate notification to the criminal police of the detention of a minor, registration number 2202. But this amendment is already provided for in the bill that we propose to consider today. I therefore propose that the draft law be adopted on the basis of which the Committee prepares it for second reading, taking into account the comments of the people's deputies and the above-mentioned legislative proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report is closed. If you have any questions, please sign in. On the board, please. Malinovski National Deputy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u130	Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Andrey Anatolyovich, this is the situation. In my time, I worked very hard in the PTU system, and I know what the service is to fight this young man, who is, well, breaking the law. But I am interested in such a question. Today, tens of thousands of young people are uncontrollable. How are they supposed to work with them? Because of the receivers? Because of what? I don't understand, and I don't see the prospect, even considering your amendments to the law, of working with this young man. There's probably a more global issue here. How do you feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u131	Of course, the very question, in the context of how you put it, must be much broader. Here, however, this specific bill already provides for work in the first place, both in terms of prevention and with people who have already committed an offence, and it is simply necessary to improve their work in this direction today. And what you've said is, of course, you have to put it more broadly in the field, so to speak, both schools and technicians and vocational training. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u132	National Deputy Kachur, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u133	Andriy Anatolyovich! Cachure, "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Do you not think that we are going somewhere to treat the consequences, not the causes? After all, those bills that have only been reported today on both sports and youth employment are closely related: that is, we don’t have a group for children, we don’t have a sports section. A child from a low - income family has virtually no opportunity to enter a higher education facility because there is either mud or money. So we're taking this perspective away, and then we're improving the employment services. Do you not think that we still have to return to treatment for a primary reason, for we will never complete the improvement of these services?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u134	That's a very good question and a point you said. I am 100 percent in favour of what you just said, what you're really starting to say, and it's kind of similar to the last question, starting with the moments you said. But we have this situation today, we have this fact today, and we have no right today not to react or make these changes, to act in accordance with these changes. And what you're right, and it's virtually impossible to go to the institute today either without a bribe or without a serious fee, which, in most cases, is already commercially already almost all institutions, is a much broader problem. We are looking at a little bit of a narrow, part of the problem. And the problem is, of course, it's happening, it's much wider. And I think that the bills that you mentioned today, and a number of others that are under consideration, should improve this situation, improve this work. You're right, thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u135	Nosenko's national deputy from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u136	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Dear Andriy Anatolyevich, please tell me if there is a tendency to increase or to reduce such special institutions for minors? And if so, what does this involve, and what do you think we should expect as soon as these issues are resolved? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u137	Thank you. Well, if you answer yes, briefly, although this is a large problem, of course, the number of such institutions is increasing systematically. This is certainly linked to the social problems that exist in our State. Young people, we're talking about this today. There's no one working for young people today. In fact, the sections, the groups that were earlier, so to speak, and the Soviet authorities were operating, they were abandoned today, they are not working, and no one is working today, it's out of the question, it's out of the way, no one's dealing with it. Young people are thrown out on the street where she is, so to speak, we know what she is doing. So there is no other way for her today, and of course there is. And "thank you" because, in the coffeehouses, that's what this problem is all about today, and these institutions are growing. While today's growth trend on these issues is precisely what it is, underage girls are on the road today, and it is among this category that the growth trend is growing, unfortunately deeply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u138	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you, please sit down, Andriy Anatolyevich. Yuri Carmazin, please. Get Bondarenko ready. Yuri Anatolyovich, perhaps from a place like this. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, Odessa's hero city is still occupied by those who gave a ounce of gold and so forth. So you are. Thanks for the tip. So, dear friends, we're looking at the draft law is extremely serious. It is extremely serious because this turbulent year has seen such a tremendous increase in juvenile delinquency -- 13.4 percent. What about latent crimes, crimes that are undiscovered and unknown? Most of them are minors. To be honest, I was surprised how the leadership of the Supreme Council on the women’s shoulders, thanks to the free work of the Secretary of the Supreme Council, overcame the problem. This issue was to be considered by the Law Enforcement Committee, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And that's understandable to everyone but Zajchuk. Let him travel less abroad, sit here, and see when you can get him to sign. If he doesn't, at least let him listen to the MPs. But they don’t want to listen to the MPs, they make us talk to the doormen. That's it. But I thank Catherine Semina for taking it on anyway. What I'd like to say is, of course, it's a positive thing that social rehabilitation schools in general form create psychological and pedagogical correction centers for minors. I have recently had people from the Party of Protectors of the House of Gorlovka, of the Donetsk Region, and they say, "What should we do? There's a school in Gorlovka for those guys who committed these crimes. There's 60 kids. This school is headed by a person who is convicted of breaking up the budget. It's right here." I say: "What, and there's nothing we can do?" The Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine intervened, sent people there after my insistence, and there are some results. There would be no other results in the Donetsk region. Negative. It is overlooked that article 17 of the law proposes that the prosecutor’s supervision of the law be removed. Dear friends, the Constitution provides that prosecutorial supervision is being carried out. Why are you removing it, what are you doing? I want to warn you that you can't do things like this because. Well, I promise you, I read all the projects thoroughly, the law. Yeah, yeah. They're offering. I'm sorry, I don't mean yours, I mean, the Cabinet bill that's being proposed for the prosecutor's supervision of this law to be removed. And that's why I'm saying that projects like this are supposed to be on the board of profiles for law enforcement. And the positive thing is that the number of people you have to look at in this service is also decreasing to 2 000. But I think that one employee for 2,000 minors is also not the norm, you have to lower it to a thousand, or it will be the criminals. We have to go down to a thousand, I emphasize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u140	Yuri Anatolyevich, for the next time, you'll be less than a minute. Look. Please. Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u141	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. As I look at our hall, I regret to note that the problems of raising, teaching children today for many deputies are far less important than the distribution of portfolios in the Cabinet of Ministers and the plans to replace the heads of parliamentary committees that are probably being considered. As for the problem that is being analyzed in the hall today, it is very important, very important. In my life, she played, well, I'd say, such a big part. I was working as the head of the Rajikon, the deputy head of the Rajikon. In the area where I worked, 40 children’s clubs were created, from very powerful to small, that allowed children to be involved in this activity. Now that I'm watching the changes that are taking place in society, and when the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to remove the prosecutor's supervision, he cancels another chain that controls the operation of different chains of work with children. And there's a whole system of executive bodies, women's councils, sports committee there, guardian councils that have to do that. Today, this system is almost broken. And it's very sad that it's actually disappeared in the vast majority of the regions that, well, it's absolutely necessary an organ like the board of trustees. The Board of Trustees, it has consolidated the efforts of social protection, education, medical authorities, and has provided opportunities to protect the defenceless, including the elderly and the small. Today, when total property was taken away, it touched the children directly, for the property of those who could not stand for themselves in the right way was to be observed by the Watch Tower Council. Today, there are no guardian councils on the list of bodies to be created on the scene. I made an offer in Kiev to reinstate the city's council, in areas where they exist, sometimes under the guise of a socio-protector, sometimes under the guise of education management, sometimes under the guise of medicine, depending on which inspector actually heads this council so, it's one-sided and it works. And this is a very important body, because it provides job control and, above all, control has to be ensured for the police to work in this direction. After all, the police sometimes artificially take the children to the colonies. I had this experience when we fired an inspector who set up a bicycle to take him, ride him, pierce a bicycle, then racket a parent, and if he refused to pay him money, the child got into a colony. I mean, I don't suspect the entire police force in this, but in dealing with children they're using the same crude methods that are usually used both for alcoholics and for those who are today the declassified elements of society. The Board of Trustees should monitor every visit to such a special establishment, control whether there is nothing wrong with the rights of the child above all. So I hope that by working on this document and working in principle to protect the interests of children, the committee will take these thoughts into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! A review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Organs and Services for Minors and Special Institutions for Minors has been completed. With regard to the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote, or November 28. A replica? Yes, please. National Deputy Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u143	Rodionov, the Communist faction. The question and the answer were such that only money and higher education could now be done, and only otherwise. I want to tell you. I work for the Kiev Political Institute myself. I have to just object to it, you can't accuse all teachers of being bribes because, first of all, it's not true. And second of all, it's just immoral. First. And not the majority. I want to say this. To suggest that children of poor parents today have, unfortunately, a much lower chance of getting a better education. That's the reason. The reason is that the poor have caused children to find themselves in unequal conditions and, unfortunately, they have been trained worse. That's one reason. But it's not the reason that there's only bribes and stuff everywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Master Procedure. We have three more bills to consider. I would ask that we work quickly and at the same time thoroughly. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Dobkin Mikhailo Markovich, is invited to report. I'm going to say the same thing, so that within three minutes, we'll have a justification, an answer to questions. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u145	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration by a group of National Deputies, a draft Ukrainian law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Master Procedures Code has been submitted for your consideration. We are grateful to the people’s deputies for their support, for this is an important norm that is vital to life itself. It is proposed to amend article 111 under the 15th "Further grounds for an action before the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the rulings of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. " Sections 1 and 2 of article 111, 17 of the Code of Reference of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, and 111 of article 19 of the Code of Conduct of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. The documents are in your hands. What is the need for the adoption of this law? First of all, it is being adopted with the aim of simplifying the system and ordering the cassation of court decisions and optimizing the procedure for the cassation of decisions of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Code of Master Procedure does not comply with article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes principles of judiciality such as legality, equality of all the parties to the trial before the law and the court, the provision of an appeal and appeal against the court, and so forth. Yes, the laws of Ukraine of 21 June 2001 amending the procedural codes of the Civil and Criminal Code have made significant changes to the implementation of the requirements of the Transitional Provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine on the need to bring procedural legislation into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. However, these codes set out different procedures for the prosecution of court decisions in a court of law, which does not comply with constitutional rules on the equality of all parties to a court of law. At the same time, the list of grounds set forth in the Ukrainian Code of Master Procedure for Accusing Supreme Court rulings of Ukraine to the Supreme Court of Ukraine differs greatly from the list of grounds for their annulment. These grounds for the annulment of the rulings of Ukraine’s Supreme Economic Court are their inadequacy with the Constitution of Ukraine, international treaties, the acceptance of which is given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or other misuses. Illumination of the right. I, honourable Members, want to tell you that here in this law it is a matter of removing the inadequacy of our Constitution and, above all, simplifying the system and the order of the cassation of judicial decisions, i.e. comparing the grounds on which this judicial decision can be challenged with the points on which this decision can be overturned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? If so, please sign up, if not, we will continue to walk. None. Thank you. Please, from. You can sit down, thank you, Mikhailo Markovich. Who will report from the committee? Please, National Deputy Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk, Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u147	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, 1351, of July 11, 2002, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Dobkin and Holy. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure should be adopted on the basis of mandatory drafting of the bill, taking into account the comments, proposals by the committee, as well as other subjects of the right to legislative initiative, and that a second reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be submitted to the Supreme Council. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues also believes that the bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u148	Mikolo Dmitrovitch, thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for our colleague? None. Thank you, sit down, please. The discussions included the National MP Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, please have two minutes as we agreed. We're working at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! A very serious question, in fact, today is raised -- the question of settlement in accordance with the Constitution. I didn't ask questions so I wouldn't take the time right now, but I want to make a statement about the pros and cons of this bill. The proselytes are complemented by the grounds for the complaint before the Supreme Court, which comes out of the Constitution, which is that the first is the reasons for the inadequacy of international treaties and the second is the other misapplication of the rules of material or procedural law, which unfortunately is very common in a stockholder society called the Higher Economic Court. I told the stockholders' company in vain, and I'm going to present such evidence on this big high court. I want to draw attention to a negative that is somehow overlooked, to the fact that article 111-9 of the Supreme Court's rulings are expected to be completed, to the effect that one of the reasons is that the Supreme Court's rulings, the Supreme Court's rulings or the Supreme Court of another specialization on the application of the rules of substantive law are not appropriate. I believe that if it is us, God forbid, it will violate article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states, "The judges in the exercise of justice are independent and subject only to the law." I want to tell you that this independence was demonstrated yesterday when the leaders of the judicial branches of power immediately came to congratulate the Prime Minister on his election, when even the legitimacy of the election of the Prime Minister had not yet been established. This has never been the case in the history of our nation. Well, I just want the people of Ukraine to know their heroes. It will also be contrary to article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Sudokustre, which states that judges, in the exercise of justice, are independent of any influence, are accountable and subject only to the law. For a judge will be bound, not by law, but by decisions of the Supreme Court or the Supreme Court of another specialization, which is totally unacceptable, immoral, and associative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, a review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure has been completed. With regard to the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote. You are being reviewed by a draft law on the adoption of a code of professional ethics for judges. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Mikhailo Markovich Dobkin Please, we're the same rule, I think we can handle it. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u151	Yeah. I'm very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u152	Vasilu Vasilovich Onopenko to prepare, please, if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u153	National Deputy Dobkin, 174 constituency, faction of Democratic Initiatives. The Honourable Chief, Honourable People's Deputies, the judicial reform in Ukraine is primarily due to the updating of legislation, the introduction of all legal resources relating to courts and judges. The introduction of a bill prepared by a group of national deputies, namely, me, the deputy saint and the deputy Karatumanov, is explained by the special appointment of the judiciary in Ukraine and the high demands on those entrusted with the exercise of justice on a professional basis. On what does the effectiveness of the work of judges in ensuring the rule of law and the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of individuals and legal persons depend? We all know that it is not only proper training and qualifications in the field of law but also high moral qualities. It is not a secret that some judges have long lost the right to judge others with their own stains on a court robe. Many foreign countries, particularly in the United States, have adopted a code of conduct for judges, which obliges judges to avoid indecent conduct and improper outward appearances in the course of all activities of the judge. A judge should avoid any action in which his impartiality may be challenged by reasonable doubt during an official determination. And if a violation is established, the result is his disqualification. The Russian Federation is heading in the same direction. The code of honor of the judge of the Russian Federation lays down rules of conduct for the judge in professional and service activities. Regardless of the position and the judges who are in retirement, they retain the title of a judge and are part of a judicial association. In these important acts, they have found their anchor and direct standards of ethics. Thus, a judge should show tolerance, discipline, tact, and respect for those involved in judicial proceedings and others with whom he communicates in the field of service. Therefore, the standard of their ethical conduct is essential for affirming respect and trust in judges. The issue of judicial ethics as an integral part of the status of judges takes on particular importance in Ukraine and in developing countries in a democratic direction. This is primarily related to the ethics of judicial conduct. It's found in both civil and criminal administrative processes. Today, we feel that the conduct of judges should not only be of a recommendational nature but should be binding on them. The draft law, which is proposed to your mind, is for violating the requirements of the code, the judge is responsible under the rules of the current legislation of Ukraine until its powers are terminated. This will be possible because the Code compiles and generalizes all existing laws and regulations that regulate the service activity and its obligations to observe the requirements of the mantle, in the personal life of those who devote their lives to the service of the law and the establishment of the law. The draft code provides for requirements for both professional activities and for the extracurricular activity of the judge. The adoption of the bill proposed by the Ukrainian National MP will help to establish integrity in the conduct of representatives of the judiciary, strengthen its authority in society, strengthen the responsibility of each judge for his own actions and, accordingly, address the problem of protecting human rights in one legal space. I ask you, on the day of the vote, to support this bill, it is very important and, let's say, will lead to the removal of the limitless power that our judges have today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, questions? Yes. Please sign up. Light up on the board, please. People's Deputy School, Yulia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u155	Dear reporter, of course, I think, and most here are familiar with judges whose ethical behavior does not meet human standards at all, and in the trial they are allowed to violate simply, let's say, certain principles of communication in a normal society. You tell me, will this law be applied according to the law? Because we have a lot of laws written, but they are never used. That's the first one. The other one. If the judge has a permanent status, how can we deprive him of the opportunity to demonstrate to the parties for his inadequacy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u156	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the next bill we're going to consider is the oath of a judge. And in this oath, in the alternative that I offer to my colleagues, there are such words that the judge is responsible for violating the code of ethics, the professional code of ethics of the judge. And if you know of this, of course, and if the only reason for bringing a judge to justice is to violate this very oath, then if we accept this code and accept the new text of the oath of a judge that I'm going to report on it, it will allow a wider range of judges to be held accountable who, in their lives or in their professional activities, violate the requirements of this code and violate the rights and freedoms of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u157	People's Deputy Nadrag, People's Choice Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u158	A respected colleague, the Code of Professional Ethics of Judges, is a document that regulates moral and ethical norms. And documents that include ethical norms can hardly seem to give me the status of the law, especially since the Power is not able to regulate precisely the moral element, because morality is a personal character, it is a personality character, not a legal relationship, so to speak. Article 92 of the Constitution provides that a document such as the Code of Professional Ethics does not stipulate that such a thing may be approved by law. Well, for example, the heavy rules of legal ethics were approved by the Higher Qualifications Commission of Lawyers at the Cabinet of Ministers in October 1999, and we are trying to do so by law here. There's no contradiction here?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u159	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you that I fully agree with you that this is a moral issue. But we must take into account one very important fact that under the hand of the man who is a high-ranking judge, the first words, which he wrote, well, first of all, in the "name of Ukraine". And what standards does he have in his life, what limits do his morals and ethics have? If this were to be the case with a mere citizen of our State, I would fully agree with you that, well, we probably wouldn't have had any reason to pay attention to it and recommend to it any moral standards of conduct. But as far as the judge is concerned, you know, it's unacceptable when a judge is not limited to any rules and he's allowed, well, let's just say, for example, to insult any participant in a trial. But it's also not prescribed anywhere, it can only be prescribed here. And there are many other examples. As to why it is the Supreme Council that has the right to do so. I'll tell you what I probably have because we're assigning and removing judges, we're responsible for them. Together with them, we adopt a moral form that allows us to lead a passive life as a judge. On this basis, we have therefore proposed that the Supreme Council should bring ethics to the attention of the Codes of Conduct. If we accept him, they will be guided by judges. If, for any reason, the Supreme Council decides not to support it, it makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u160	Thank you, Michael Markovich. Time's up. The report invites the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u161	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! We were looking at this bill at the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy, and it was unanimous that it was subject to rejection by the people's MP Nadraga that ethics, moral issues were not governed by valid legislation, but by the question of self-governing organizations. If you go this way, you can talk about a code of honor for medical, educational and any field. We have 10 Bible commandments, we once had a moral code for a communist builder, you know. So that's not a question. So Mikhailo Markovich and the committee agreed when we considered the matter. Although I understand that he is the author of this bill, I understand why he wants to do it. But I think these problems need to be solved in a different plane. We need to improve the Law on Courtship, we need to strengthen the responsibility of the judges for breaking the oath and something else. [[By the way, the next question is the oath of a judge.]] The issues brought up today are linked and resolved in fact in the Law on the Status of Judges, Courts, and Civil Procedure Code, the Criminal Procedure Code. If we write it down again and say "butter butter" none of this is going to change. So the position of the committee is that we need to reject, and we really need to reform the judicial system, raise the responsibility of the judges, our legislation, and I think we need to look for a way out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Vasil Vasilovich was convincing, then. There's a question, isn't there? Well, sign up, please. Light up on the board. Alexei Malinowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u163	Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, you are an experienced lawyer, but I would like to hear from your mouth what is the state of ethics or morality today of our judges. Because it bothers me so much. Last time I was in the county, I'm sorry, it's just terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u164	I'm also very concerned and I don't think there's any apathetic people in this and even outside the hall. Today there is a crisis, a systemic crisis in the judiciary. I think the committee will come up with a proposal for parliamentary hearings on this issue, and we need to give a broad assessment of both political and legal, and moral, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u165	People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u166	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, of course I also support my predecessor, that moral, ethical and still behavioral reflexes of judges need some correction. On the other hand, of course, it would not be desirable for this law, when it is passed, to be used against, so-called, opposition judges, because morality and ethics are always such subtle notions. Now, I think that's the point of making a decision, because there's no right for a judge to uncensorize himself in his place, if he can convict a person for it, if he doesn't make a statement, he'll be convicted. There would have to be some reconciliation here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u167	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. The next question, and then Mikhail Markovich will report, is the question of changing the judge's oath, where we're making a big deal. raises the issue of the responsibility of the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u168	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u169	Dear Vasil Vasilovich! Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. I think you yourself have been very convinced that the level of morality of individual judges today needs to be greatly improved, this has been demonstrated in the election of the Supreme Court, and that's what you said. But please tell me, which then are important today, except for the High Council of Justice, which, to some extent, can be said to be controlled by one political force, would be produced in society to ensure that, in the evaluation of the activities of the judge, in estimates and in its moral and ethical qualities, there will be no political aspect again, and there will be only publicly available norms that would be independent conjunctures.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u170	Vladimir Dmitrovitch, I agree that some of the judges, I don't say of all the judges, have become independent, including from the law. We need to do a lot right now, even what was once lost today. Look, once in a year, for two years, or for three years, there was a special inspection of judges ’ activities. No one interfered with the question of how he handled a particular case, but the matter of gravity, the issue of breaking an oath, all of it, and the judges were responsible. Sadly, we have lost all of this today. So in some ways, given the capacity of the Constitution and others, we have to decide at the legislative level. Now the committee is preparing these proposals, and I'm personally preparing these proposals. Today, I am deeply concerned about the state of justice in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u171	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, group of Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u172	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for learning. Thank you! Thank you very much. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Indeed, at the adoption of the Constitution in this room when we were working. We made an unwarranted mistake, and today we have to admit it. This mistake is called the permanent election of judges to their office. So we've made one single figure that can be chosen forever and practically there's no impact on it. I mean, we've stopped checking, there's no prosecutorial supervision, there's no supervision of the higher courts, and the courts have understood that, a lot of the judges who have understood this as a sense of permissiveness: I want to -- I'm going to let the journalists meet; I want to -- I'm going to make sure that the session is open; I want to -- I'm going to close the session; I want to -- I'm not going to do that. You know, there's the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Yefimenko, and they have no influence, no influence, not even on the more brutal violations. In fact, many do not show up for work after lunch. The trend was to travel at various costs and so forth. Thus, as early as 2000, on February 24, the Council of Judges recognized the code of professional ethics of the judge, and this code exists. The codex proposed by the People’s Deputy Dobkin is even more severe. And in my opinion, we have to accept it at least in the first reading and then translate it into the Code of Court, where absolutely all norms are brought together and made sure that conflicts of interest are not allowed. Is it normal to take turns with the lawyers behind whom the families of the court’s leadership stand? Think about it, please. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the honourable MPs may know about this. If you are led by a daughter or a son of a judge or a judge, your case is a win. Is that normal? Is that immoral? But we have to foresee it in this codex! I believe that Vasil Vasilovich should see this coming. Because the committee turned into a judge printer today. And I have a big thank you to Mr. Dobkin. The only wish to teach judges is to speak from this rostrum in the national language. Just please, master her. This is our requirement, this is our requirement for us, for legislation, for the Central Election Commission, which we wrote that we speak in the national language. You don't own it, let's give it to the translator.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u174	Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u175	Thank you. He speaks the national language to the national MP Dobkin. Well, let's just say, we're already working on family business here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u176	I apologize, but I answered the question posed in Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u177	Thank you. Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski, the faction of Julia Timoshenko’s block
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u178	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I wanted the journalists to be, but there is no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u179	There's, there's, there's, there's, there's journalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u180	Oh, yes, I'm sorry. On the left, on the left, I see. There, there, there. Dear friends, I'm going to start by saying that I don't even want to thank you because he's a pusher, but because he proposed, I've drawn attention to such pressing issues, but I don't support your bill, because there's already a proper structure of legislation, there's a law on the status of judges, there's a law on the status of a national MP, and so on. So you need all your ideas, and you've heard more proposals here, you need to put them in, and you can write a new law or amendments and additions to the law on the status of judges. Then it'll be okay. And in such a clean way, the law can't be passed with that name, because, in fact, it's necessary for every sector, for everyone there, and the doctor takes an oath and an ethics. All of this must therefore be included in the law on the status of judges. What is relevant is that I have learned from experience. When I was in court, I advocated the legality of the action "Rise, Ukraine!"I show the judge the law on the status of the National MP, I show you that you can't, in principle, prohibit the meeting of voters with the People's Deputies, he listens, he can't deny, and then he can't make a decision, it's before the Shevchenkov Court of Kiev, and then he decides to ban, restrict by ban. He wants to be able to do it by law. So you see, it's even in a situation like this. So we have cases where a judge in black says "white." Or we had a lot of experience in many factions. Here, even in the Supreme Council, we have made a special determination to clarify that the national deputy is not a civil servant. And the judges in Chercas, and others in Dnipropetrovsk, are deciding to take down a deputy there, Girra and others, in view of what they consider a national deputy to be a civil servant. I mean, you see, what's happening is that the law doesn't exist for judges. Moreover, the Supreme Council of Justice today has become a political body that supports those who oppose the opposition of judges and condemns those judges who support any one of the opposition. So today, really, the situation is going, and in fact, I think, to break down in terms of the legality of the judicial system. This question is therefore relevant, but it should be reflected in the law on the status of judges. And it's right that Onopenko is proposing that we hold parliamentary hearings, that we bring order, starting, really, from the High Council of Justice, because there is also a violation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft law on the adoption of the Code of Professional Ethics of the judge has been considered. Regarding the decision, we will be decided on Thursday, November 28. You are being reviewed by a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. The reporter is National Deputy Mikhailo Markovich Dobkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u182	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. I want to tell you that I feel as if all the judges in our country are bad. No, it's not. All these limitations that are proposed, the stricter care of the judges, this very life has brought us to life. Because with a large number of judges who work honestly for a small wage, there are some judges who use their conduct to make a mark on the work of all their honest colleagues. Now I would like to propose to you a new bill, which was submitted by me, the People's Deputy of Saints and the People's Deputy of Karatumans, regarding the changes to the form of the oath of judges. Because, I want to emphasize, I've already said this from this rostrum that an oath to a judge is the only motive for the Supreme Council of Justice to bring responsibility to a judge. But the old text of the oath no longer corresponds to reality, it does not fully reflect what is happening in our nation, and it was accepted until 1996. It has been six years, and it needs to be changed. And what I want to tell you is that right now, society is getting special attention to the judiciary, because it's only in the courts that people's fates, the interests of the state, the disputes in all spheres of social relations are finally resolved. What are the limits of today’s operation of every judge, what is he guided by, what are the principles of judicial activity? In all the times when this involved life, human rights and freedoms were decided upon by a judge of state or public interest, the basic standard for the execution of justice was an oath. In every profession, a national MP, or a member of the High Council of Justice, a prosecutor, a civil servant, is his own oath. But a special character today is the content of the oath of judges. Consider the existing, uncommitted text of the oath in article 10 of the Law on the Status of Judges. We read very abstract commitments in the text: "I solemnly swear" -- I now quote the old oath: "I solemnly swear honestly and conscientiously to perform the duties of a judge, to exercise justice, to obey only the law, to be objective and just." What does the word "honestly and conscientiously" mean to a judge, if he disrespects the trial participants, offends them? Examples, unfortunately, are more than enough. As a result of the realities of our lives, a group of national deputies proposed to amend the text of that oath to the judge. We have proposed that the standards of professional ethics, the protection of human rights and freedoms and the citizen be respected, the preservation of professional secrecy, the non-admission of legal burdens and personal interest in the judiciary. Dear National Deputies! Please support the proposed changes, which will strengthen accountability and improve the quality of the work of judges, will contribute to the strengthening of the independent status and authority of judges in order to create an effective, just judicial system. Most importantly, it will ensure the proper exercise of the functions of judges to protect the legitimate rights and interests of citizens and the state as a whole. This directly refers to the judicial policy of state authority in Ukraine towards the democratization of society and the protection of the constitutional system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a question? Please register if you have any questions. Light up on the board. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u184	Dear reporter! You know that the previous law, in principle, can be discussed here and probably. to be accepted in the first reading. So in the second proposed bill, I would like to point out that very often now the Higher Council of Justice is being used to calculate the opposition, let's say, judges. On November 26th, you know, in the order of the High Council of Justice, there is a question of the removal of the status of the judge from Vasilenko, of course not because he broke the oath, because what he did is not a violation of the oath. It's just the position of a man who puts the law above political and other things. But beyond how other political parties will use your proposed law to calculate with those judges who do not go beyond the moral circles against which the judges we are fighting against are. How would you react? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u185	Thank you for asking. Well, I'm a national MP, just as a Ukrainian citizen, I think it's not possible for political reasons to hold judges accountable if we're building a democratic state. But thanks to you for asking, I don't agree with one question. We don't have the right to evaluate one or the other action that happens on the part of the High Council of Justice, unrepentantly motivated by the fact that they refer to one or another judge solely on the grounds that he is the judge, there, advocates the interests of the opposition. I don't agree with that because, to tell you the truth, I don't belong to the opposition, I respect the opinion of many opponents. I respect that view only because, no, more loyally, not only for being chosen by the people but also for not respecting your opinion means disrespecting the opinion of the number of people who chose you. But I too was chosen by the electorate, I was chosen by the electorate, and my opinion was also the opinion of my constituents. And I don't want to move on to any personnel, but there's no way we can limit the High Council of Justice. Yes, you have the right there, if a mistake has been made, there, on the part of some farm decision or on the part of its non-professionality, you can limit it, and if this judge acted in defense of the interests of the opposition, it is impossible to limit it. We can't even write it down to separate it somehow. And the work of the High Council of Justice in what way does it go? It is up to those who enter the High Council of Justice and those who preside over it, that is, they should use it. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u186	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u187	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, "Our Ukraine". Dear Mr. Reporter! We've heard a few words in your mouth today about a judge's oath. There is another oath, a Ukrainian national deputy, published in the Constitution and article 79, which states: "I pledge allegiance to Ukraine, I commit myself to all my actions to defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to take care of the good of the country, to the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all compatriots." This is the text of the Constitution of Ukraine, the oath of a national MP read by Sergi Kivalov. He is headed by the High Council of Justice today, and according to the Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine has either to leave office in the High Council of Justice, or to release a seat in the Supreme Council Hall. Can such a person lead a body that gives a classification of the actions of judges, deprives them of their professional activities, and so on if he does not follow the laws of Ukraine himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u188	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you, we've gone a little bit different, we're now discussing changes to the text of the judge's oath, not what's going on in the Vistai council of justice. I don't think I have the right to evaluate the actions of my colleagues, national deputies. I'll just say that I know the head of the High Council of Justice, the national deputy of Mr. Kiwalov as a very professional person, as an expert in his position. And I can't fully answer your question because I don't want to judge any action. And as for the oath of a national MP, I just want to tell you one thing. I agree that our oath is with you, it is more of a badge of scale, and it has more meaning than that oath made by the judges. So I ask you to support this project in the first reading so that we can make any changes and additions to the version that I have proposed and accept and oblige the judges to keep this oath until the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u189	Thank you, Michael Markovich. Thank you. I'd like to inform Vladimir Bondarenko here that I've appealed to the court and received a court order that he sent to the regulatory committee regarding the national deputy Kiwalov. And now I've handed it over to the regulatory committee. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Dear colleagues, we've got a lot of people's deputies on the Vault. If I'm not mistaken, 26 national deputies. I'd like us to finish this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u190	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The first conclusion is that the oath has to be changed clearly, it's been adopted for a long time, and it doesn't fit today's realities. The other one. It can be accepted in the first reading as a bill, but really, it takes into account certain suggestions. Well, let's say this isn't about the rule of law at all. But this should be reflected in the oath. Here is a reference in the draft law on the code of professional ethics of a judge, but we do not yet have such a code. We're just discussing it. Third, let's say a note. The judge is obliged to ensure full and effective judicial review. There are articles 15, 30 of the Civil Procedure Code, corresponding articles of the Criminal Procedure Code, where the same is written. I mean, we have to clean up everything else, but what we have to take in another version of the oath as a law is definite.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! Let's start the discussion. National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The town manager of Odessa is still occupied by those people who are not. Dear friends! Dear people of Ukraine! The issue under discussion is very important. And the changes to the law on the status of judges that was proposed by the People's Deputy Dobkin, I understand that, because when I first went into this room in 1994, I proposed in the election that I take an oath as a candidate. And yet without being chosen, I have sworn such an oath to my electorate in the city of Odessa. The first oath, without being chosen, was not yet in the Constitution. That's why I'm very familiar with it, and I think that the text of an oath has to be adopted, we have to adopt this law in the first reading, and especially to determine that for judges, there is a primacy of both the protection of the state, and the protection of state values, and its sovereignty, and the inviolability, and all that the MPs have not the right to decide by the name of the law, and the judges can do so. So in this respect, I would like to say and give a little little example. I want to tell you how important it is to the National People's Deputies, think about it! In the summer, the second judge was killed in Odessa in three years, killing Igor Tchakok. And before that, he's on his way, he's calling to see you right now. I come out of this room, I come down here and he says to me, I've been offered the post of head of the arbitration court as mediators so I can raise $500,000. It's a terrible thing, but I'm telling the truth. And before that, he was killed three years before the head of the Odessa arbitral tribunal, Boris Vihrov. Murder's not open. In view of the fact that I am now dealing with issues of the judiciary, I warn you that I am not going to end my life with suicide and am not going to rape anyone and do anything else. I'm saying that I want to publish a document right now. It was released on November 6, 2002. "For the company's debt of 35,000 dollars, which had already been paid on November 2nd, the question was still being raised and the bankruptcy of a company, a state company called Black Sea Sailing, was still being considered in order to completely pillage it. In Odessa, a way of privatizing through bankruptcy was actually invented. So the judge thought of it as a show of approval, and Judge Grabovan came out like this, and it reads in the praise: "Stop the authority of the century." President of the Black Sea Shipping Company, Mazowski, to be appointed in accordance with legislation and regulations. I mean, Kip.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u193	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u194	Minister of Transport, I'm half a minute, I've saved you the past and now I'm going to save you the trouble.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u195	Time's up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u196	I'll save you another one now, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u197	Where will you save your life?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u198	I want you to understand what's going on. The Minister of Transport orders the appointment of the head of the state company.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u199	Yuri Anatolyevich, don't make me turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u200	Turn it off. I'll tell you everything I wanted to say in different ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the question has been discussed, turn off the microphone, draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. The decision will be decided on the day of the vote. Let's move on to the Miscellaneous. In various ways, 25 national deputies were enrolled for the performances. I would ask that everyone have the opportunity to speak, to shorten the time, maybe not to three, there, but to two minutes to, in two and a half minutes. The national deputy Yavorowski. Prepare the National Deputy of Shershun. Please. There's no Yavorowski. National MP Shershun, please. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, you're on. You're on. Yuri Anatoliyovich, there is a Rules. You said it was a violation of the Rules, but you taught me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u202	Shershun, Ravenshina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u203	On the board, please give us a list of names.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u204	Dear Chief, honourable colleagues, I would like to raise, as I am today, an extremely acute problem -- the support of gifted children in Ukraine. At first glance, it seems that this is a trifle compared to the economic and political issues that we have to resolve here with you in the walls of the Supreme Council. But I'm sure that's not true, because if you and I leave little talents to survive today, we'll lose them. And that means we're going to lose our golden potential for the country. In my Serensk district, I often visit out - of - school institutions, school homes, and children’s clubs. And everywhere I see one thing: Children everywhere want to do things with their hands and they want to feel that someone needs them. Regrettably, where children’s creativity is being developed, it is largely a matter of enthusiasm at the expense of the teachers and parents themselves, who cut the money off from their own poor family budget. There's a village in my district of Sosna, where children make such miracles out of vines and trees that famous craftsmen might envy. What embroidery! But rural moneylessness does its black work, and the enthusiasm of adults, taking into account the economics of family budgets, disappears, and children do not develop God’s spark because of their own desire. As a result, the state loses its talents, which have been celebrating Ukraine for centuries with their poems and brushes, their golden hands, and their fresh thoughts. Even in the worst of times, talent was observed and supported. The Oriental sages said, "You will preserve the talent of one man, you will preserve the future of the village, you will preserve the talent of a hundred-- be calm for the future of the country." I could be denied if I said why raise that question, but there's a President's decree to support the gifted youth. Yes, there is. But it wasn't in the State Budget, they wouldn't find it anywhere. The question of the distribution of expenditure to the State is our, the MP's, the competence. I think we should make a wise decision and, in shaping the resources of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, define a separate article that foresees a certain amount of funding to support extra-school institutions that are involved in the development of children's creativity in Ukraine. If we don't, Ukrainian talents will support other -- Germans, Poles, Americans, anyone. And that gift that was rewarded by the Ukrainian land of these children will serve for the benefit of other nations within 10 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u205	Thank you. Yavorowski doesn't have Vladimir Aleksandrovitch? The word is Carmazin. Time's up, Yuri Anatolyovich. Do you give up? Please turn it on. Time's up. And don't break the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u206	You're hard to understand, I thought they gave me their word. Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. I realize that in order not to hear the truth, we will be involved earlier, but the truth will still come through. So, honourable national deputies, I want to lead you to your knowledge of what happened in Odessa. In Odessa it was that the decision of the Ministry of Transport of the Republic of Cyprus, which held a state and state position, stood in favour of the preservation of state ownership, was made to appoint the president of the state shipping company of the Black Sea Maritime Shipping Company Mazovsky. This decision, by the acknowledgment of the Odessa Economic Court, was written, "Stop the authorization." The subject is bankruptcy. Once again, 35,000 debts of all bracelets, a sum of money to those things in order to sell and dismember state property for not one tenth of annuity and not one hundred thousand dollars. I demand an assignment from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and ask her to report, because today a report on the fight against organized crime and corruption on these circumstances has been planned. I also demand from the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, which Mr. Schlapak is currently in charge of, to send a check on how arbitration officials are doing today and protect the property rights of the State and the interests of the collective. I also want to understand why the Odessa region is beyond criticism, beyond the opinions of the Henprocuratorate and beyond the control of the Supreme Council and beyond the control of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm addressing you, Your Honor, to bring to an end the Law on the Office of the President and the subsidiary organs and structures. I learned that the National Bank had funded 15 million as a charity aid to the DUSS. Please tell me I'm waiting for this information to be rectified from the head of the National Bank, from the head of the DUSA, from the President of Ukraine, and I want no further such aberration in the state. So let's adopt the Presidential Office Act, which is that we have only one government, and the President's Office is not a government in the state. I offered you this project, the explanatory notes all gave and addressed all the leaders of groups and factions gave. Unfortunately, no one wants to. They don't want this issue blocked by the head of the Supreme Council of Zajchuk, who is represented by the President's Office in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u207	The word is given to Alexiyuk, the next Shirko. Yuri Anatoliyovich, and I want to explain to you the rules of the Rules and articles 15 and 16 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, how a request and appeal are formulated. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u208	Sergei Alexiyuk, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Movement, Equality. Ladies and gentlemen, this year, the National Scouts' Organization, Plast, celebrated its 90th anniversary. Today, "Plass" is a voluntary, non-political, non-profit-making all-U.S. public organization founded by Professor Alexander Tisovski, Peter Frank, John Cmol and other Ukrainian actors who wanted to raise Ukrainian youth best. So far, the organization's activities aim is to promote the inclusive, patriotic education of young people on the basis of Christian morality, to raise young, conscious, responsible citizens of the national and world community, to guide society on the ideas of the Plast. No wonder there's a lot of famous public figures among people who are plastics or were raised in Dusty. They are scientists and statesmen, ambassadors and consuls, journalists and priests, businessmen, and national deputies. Yes, by identifying the importance of the development and strengthening of the patriotic youth and children's organizations of Ukraine, and by familiarizing themselves with the work of the youth organizations of the National Scouting Organization of Ukraine, we, the National Deputies of the Yuhnovsky Igor Rafailovich, Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich, Kravčuk Leonid Makarovic, Gavriš Stepan Bogdanovic, Alexij Sergey Sergijovich, as well as the adviser of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Gabrielishin Bogdan Dmitrovich, have created a board of guardians of the Plast, which we hope will contribute to the development of the Scout movement of Ukraine and the entry of the Ukrainian "Plasto" into the world organization of the Scout movement. Taking advantage of the occasion on the eve of November 23, the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Hunger and Political Repression, I would like to remind you that on this day, tomorrow in Ukraine, there will be parades on these victims, our brothers, our Ukrainians, who have been responsible for this independence of our nation. On that day all Ukraine will remember those who gave up their lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u209	National deputy Shirko, faction of our Ukraine, please. Get ready for Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u210	Yuri Shirko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Movement, town of Raven. Last week I had to attend many groups and many meetings in my hometown, where people of different ages, different professions, were present, but not indifferent to the state. And at the UPA-Ukrainian Uprising Army Brotherhood Conference, and at the congregations of educational professional activists in the city of Raven and the area, and at the personal reception, the questions about Ukraine’s 2003 budget were most frequently raised. Let me read one letter of instruction to the National Deputies. "Dear People's Deputies! Our appeal is caused by deep concern about the lack of funding for the general secondary education system and the deterioration of the socio-economic situation of education workers. The Ukrainian Cabinet's proposals for education allocations in 2003, as in previous years, once again do not take into account the requirements of current legislation regarding the scope of finance for the sector, ensuring that workers have a proper level of wages, working conditions and living conditions. The recent practical steps taken by the authorities to implement the individual provisions of article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine have had little effect on the material condition of teachers. Average rates and official salaries are two and a half times lower than legislatively defined. The level of poverty is evidenced by the fact that no category of wage earners reaches a minimum of living. The apathy of executive authorities to the problems of education, the plight of workers, leads to the outflow of pedagogical personnel, which has a negative impact on the quality of education, causes social tension. The members of the labour assembly of the educational establishments, held the day before, confirmed the determination and willingness of the education community to protect their constitutional rights, to seek full assurance of the standards, conditions and salaries, housing and housing provisions provided by the current legislation. At the same time, requirements have been approved that relate to the ratios in the levels of official salaries of the different categories of workers and educational rates in relation to the statutory size of wages and the sorting of the conditions of pay, the development and approval of the relevant legislation. As members of the congregations, we urge you, Your Honourable People’s Deputies, to show a stately approach, public consciousness, life’s wisdom, and to take all possible steps to meet the just demands of the education community when the 2003 budget is approved. The teachers also asked the president, the prime minister, and the minister of education to make arrangements and at least make the same promises, and unfortunately, they differ. Not much better for health workers, cultural workers, engineers, and officials. In our area, it was normal not to pay money to builders and other workers. All the teams go to court to collect the money they earned, and by winning the court, it is not easy to obtain it, for even the executive service has often been unable to comply with the court’s decision. Ladies and gentlemen, when voting for the budget, please remember that we have been chosen by the Ukrainian people and only for the benefit of this Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u211	People's MP Mokchan. You don't? Then, please, the Puzakov People's Deputy, the Communist faction. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u212	Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I am always, and more today, concerned about indifference, formalism, about the write-offs of the authorities that should protect the rights of our citizens. Not long ago, I felt it with pain and bitterness, even with resentment. As a national MP, I accompanied the city of Kiev to the participants of the all-Ukrainian campaign "Resurrender, Ukraine!".. We have not been able to leave the city, as law enforcement agencies, together with criminal groups, at the direction of the district authorities, have committed acts of robbery, of lawlessness, of celibacy, of damage to buses, resulting in a direct threat to the lives of a large number of people on buses. I asked the Minister of Internal Affairs of Smyrnov and the Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscoun. And instead of getting a true, deep professional answer, I got a formal letter starting with the words, "Your appeal for the unlawful actions of the militia personnel during the escort of the delegation of participants in the entire Ukrainian action has been thoroughly verified." The same formal and false response from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine was received by the Chief of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. What a thorough investigation when neither I nor any of the victims had even a brief conversation. And so it was all four times when a delegation of shareholders went to Kiev. We have already been denied transportation everywhere, and under the demands of senior officials, the authorities, who are at risk of being fired or dislicted by motorists and private buses, have been banned from taking buses out of the city of Kirovgrad and the area even on the occasion of the 85th anniversary of the Great Yellow. This led to a 6-hour stand against ordinary people and corrupt power, because the buses still went to Kiev. And every time there was a violation of legislation by the authorities. But it won't be that long, the people have woken up, they're looking for protectors, not formal tax collectors. All of these events indicate the transformation of a democratic state into a police state, and we all know what this could lead to. And in the people they say that the guilt of everything is the Presidential Authority, it just lived up to itself as a system leading to the destruction of both the people and the state, and it needs to be changed. And at the direction of the electorate, for the second time, I demand, indeed, a thorough investigation and a true answer to my request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u213	People's Deputy Demyohin, People's Rule Group. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u214	Vladimir Demehin, People's Government Group, 184 constituency, Herson City. Dear leaders of the Supreme Council, distinguished people's deputies! The issue with which I came to this rostrum has forced many people's deputies to make such statements. What is it? It is the housing of the military, the military and the Ministry of Defence, and the Security Service, the border forces, in general, all the people who are carrying out the pursuits that are serving today and who have resigned from the Armed Forces. Ten days ago, we discussed this subject with you during the Government's Day, and we were convinced that with all the attention of the leadership of the military to personal security, adequate solutions allowing us to remove the problem dramatically while we do not have it. Indeed, since the year 94, the mechanism, the method of attracting and using investment from the enterprise profit tax has been practically developed. On instructions from the President, an integrated housing programme for soldiers and their families was developed in 99 years. All of this has borne fruit. Let's think about these. During the programme period from 99 to 2001, about 8.5,000 apartments were built and received from all sources of funding, and today the number of troops in the housing system, i.e. in the home language, is higher than 66,000. So imagine how many years later the last soldier will receive: well, 16-20 years, which is now on the line of the last. But we must not forget that there is a renewal of the armed forces. What about the young lieutenants who graduate from school? I mean, it probably doesn't light them up at all. I'll allow myself to set an example in my constituency. The Herson garrison consists of a second brigade of army aviation. The good work of Herson helicopters is often heard by Ukrainians. That's the elimination of Chernobyl accidents. You know herson's pilots were the first. Today, more than 60 per cent of officers and flags do not have housing. That's almost 300 soldiers. We would like to make a concrete proposal from the members of our People's Government to implement the targeted principle of housing for the military. That's what it looks like. Any soldier may receive a loan in turn. Today, we have budgeted over 500 million dollars. for the implementation of this programme. And we need to let them go today on a targeted basis. I mean, we have to let people buy apartments. If you take the cost of housing, for example, in Herson, it's between 5,000 and 50,000 bracelets. You realize you can solve this problem so quickly. We will soon make our proposals for the integration of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programme and will insist that the programme be implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u215	National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Grosjevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u216	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished voters, colleagues. Taking into account the economic and social complexity of the situation in the country, using my right to speak out of this important rostrum, I would like everyone to listen. So far, no one has given me an answer about the predatory destruction of the forests of Bukovin. While I am in the Cherniewsky region, associating with the electorates of Putilski, Visnitsky, and The Watchtower, I say that under the direct patronage of the district, the destruction and looting of forests are taking place. The circle is exported outside the area. At a time when logging is being developed in Bergomet, The Watchtower, and Chernivts. So far, the fate of the people of the mountains has not been resolved, and I'm talking about benefits and subsidies from the State Budget. I got acquainted with the budget in the second reading that was accepted. Grants to Putilski, Visnitsky, and Stryzinetsky regions, as well as to other areas of the Cherniewec region, and subsidies meet the needs of some 60 percent. I'll give you an example in the Viennese region of Cherniewec. From there, the government takes about 10 million dollars for logging. A grant of about 5 million dollars is returned to the area. Two years ago, there were at least 20 percent of this tax left here, and now the state is taking 100 percent, returning the grant, but not the one that is needed for the development of these regions. I think we should go back to the fate of the mountain population. What I see with my eyes in the Selatina region of Potile, many young families, I do not want to see any of the national deputies in this room or in general from the authorities. Something unclear is going on in the Chernobyl area with law enforcement authorities. I was approached by the Kiyaszk family from the place of the Chernivites about the attack and the racket on her family. My appeal to law enforcement remains unresponsive. Why does this family suffer until now, and why are bandits still out there? I gave an example of the retired civil servants in the region of Cherniewec. He also referred to Zinchenko, the deputy head of the Supreme Council. There is an investigation of the pensioners, which means that the civil servants are on the side of Mr. Potter. That is what Mr. Baur knows, but it is said that a visa and still there, people still suffer. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for your reaction. And I felt it in terms of our performances. But I would like to make a statement on "Parliamentary Messenger." I looked at it yesterday, and it seemed to me that I didn't see a report from our hall, but yesterday, more faithfully, where the pension issues were discussed, and they were shown by those deputies who were early, registered, and when the pension bills were discussed, there was no one in the hall. But I can see that they are interviewing about the bills that Comrade Cibenko was talking about. I don't think that's true. There shouldn't be a parliamentary censor. And I'm just addressing you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, the "Parliamentary Messenger" must be for all the deputies, not split into left, right, middle, but for all. Melniczuk spoke, Karmazin spoke, Vashchuk spoke, please be objectively shown to the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u217	Thank you. The National Deputy Grzezhev, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is preparing Malinowski, also from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u218	Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Disaster Management. Dear colleagues! A week ago, problems related to radiation safety measures were addressed at the Chernobyl nuclear station. The analysis showed that the situation remained a matter of great concern. Here are some examples. The Government of Ukraine has signed an agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the implementation of a 9-year facility-related work package that transforms it into an environmentally sound system. Half the time has passed, with 60 per cent of the nearly $760 million allocated by donor countries for this purpose. Only 16 per cent were achieved. Today, it can certainly be said that Ukraine's most important security programme has failed and there are still prerequisites for a repetition of emergency situations. Any reference to specific difficulties in work may be made to inconsistent actions by donors, but in this case such arguments, based on danger, are unconvincing. There are public services and officials within them who must perform their duties and remove emerging problems in time. Excruciating security situation in the alien zone. Just one fact. According to the managers of these services, wages have been due since August. In such a situation, it is simply not fair to speak of good faith in their work. We were asked a straight question: " Didn't you learn anything from what happened in Moscow? Do you want them to shake Ukraine?" Don't bring it in like they say, Lord, so it happens. Another fact. 85 per cent of additional radiation pollution outside the zone is discharged by water. The reason for this question is that it cannot construct a four-kilometre dump to protect Pripet from the drains. In the Dnepra basin, about half of the population lives and enjoys its services. Why is this happening? This is because many officials of different levels are extremely irresponsible for discharging their responsibilities in the face of crime. Their attitude towards the station is the same as that of any closed enterprise. It's unacceptable. I therefore address you personally, Sir Vladimir Mihajlovich, because I know that you understand the essence of the matter and that you will take steps to do so. First. Order the Prime Minister of Ukraine to form a working group and send it to the site for detailed consideration with station staff and urgent action. Second. To entrust the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine, at the meeting of its College, to consider the question of the performance of the functions of the public officials of the central executive authorities in the implementation of the decisions taken by the President of Ukraine and the Government to close and withdraw the operation of the Chernobyl station and, if necessary, to take measures to influence them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u219	Malinovski National Deputy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Petrenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to follow the Rules, we have 17, 15 more speakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u220	Honorable leadership of the Supreme Council, MPs, voters! Today, my speech coincides with the problems we face today at the sessions, or the problems of the courts. The point is, in the last month, I have been approached by hundreds of voters as an MP. What are some of the problems involved in the courts? And the problem here is not politics, it's purely business affairs, it's simple complaints from people who think they live in the rule of law, and so they hope to solve their problems through the courts. These are simple examples. A scandal and a lawsuit with the privatisation of a closed stockholder association called the Grafia of Ukraine, where an amount of property was actually seized for almost 6 million dollars. It's been going on for five years. The other thing is simple. The line. He can't divide the limit, though all the documents are in order. Three years. It's saying that, without a doubt, our judicial system, I don't even know what to call it, it's just some monsters, deciding what either the judge wants, or the one with the bigger wallet, or the ones looking up. I can name dozens of names. It is the family of Melniki, and Cherkasov, Padenko, Pesaki - simply, tears come to your eyes when you read these things. And wherever these people go, it's a wall. It is so legal that the judge of the master himself has no effect on him and is in fact a stalemate. I'd like to, uh, go talk to Yuri Carmazin. He heads a committee such as the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. Let's go to the central regions of Ukraine. Look. Judge, what's going on? And let's look for the mechanism of this, the change in this situation. It's about politics. Dear colleagues! I'm already silent that the 13th, 14th, 15th you know the virgins of September all over Ukraine were the total intimidation of the people who are standing in opposition to today's presidential regime. Totally. There are facts when people, like in Kirovgrad, burned down the hospital because they were so "nice" asked in the prosecutor's office. But these are facts. I just want to say one more thing about politics. I'll talk. How the prosecution conducts itself today. Overwatch, observation, and pressure again. This applies to the members of the council, personally to me. And fresh politics itself. I'm done. It's just fresh politics. There was a mini coup in Chercas. Sosnovska. The city of Cherkasy, the District Council of Transnistria The head of the council is Saska Grigory Tikhovitch, a professional. But thanks to the active actions of the three deputies, by the way, now active coworkers of the BSS. They held an illegal session and withdrew from the work of the board manager, violating all the laws and regulations of the session. And that's a fact. This is a precedent created by our Supreme Council in 2000, remember. Today starts at the bottom of this, these processes. And this tells us that today, indeed, we have power today, so a system without which change is not possible. And the last thing I'd like to do is turn to our voters. Dear voters, those who have addressed me with judicial problems, thank Mr. President, our Kuchma for what he has created. Without breaking this system, we can't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u221	National MP Petrenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Tiny.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u222	Petrenko, Communist faction, Suma district. "The appeal of a sum society of fraudulent investors to the President and national deputies of Ukraine. We, the group of fraudulent investors, have repeatedly addressed the President, the prime ministers, the heads of the factions in the parliament of the previous call to consider immediately the issue of the return of our honest-earned money that we have entrusted to the State in the person of savings. We remember President Leonid Kuchma making promises before the election on TV in Suma that investors would be able to use contributions to pay for rent and utilities, medicine, education, and so on. But as soon as he was elected president, he forgot everything. You, the national deputies, have promised so much, people have also believed you, you have been chosen, but as the work of the Supreme Council shows, you are not in a hurry to fulfill your promises. And the proof is the budget, where you can return the deposits to the population of the coin. You, the high officials and the leaders of Ukraine, have put a loop on your people’s neck, and each time you rub it a little. It hurts to see homeless children and pensioners looking for food on garbage. The Constitution of Ukraine and the European Convention for the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens guarantee Ukrainian investors their right to property. On June 7, 2001, the Supreme Council adopted Bill 2456, allowing investors to use their contributions to pay for utilities, quarterly payments, drug payments and so on, that is, what the President promised before the elections. And now that he's president, he's vetoing this bill. He also did so with the law on the protection of the population’s income from inflation. Why, then, 450 deputies if one president decides? We've been waiting 10 years for our savings to come back, and you're all probably waiting for us to die as soon as possible. You've turned Ukraine into a large concentration camp where there are experiments on the survival of a Ukrainian without food. President Leonid Kuchmi does not need to speak to the people that he is a popularly elected president. If you don't keep your promises, we don't want to see you as President. And the MPs are told to think about those who chose you, not to run from one faction to another, but to think about those who chose you. We demand: first. Adopt a law on the return of savings to the population. The other one. Bet on second reading, not 500 million, but 5 billion on savings, but on the adoption of a law on the return of savings to overcome the veto if the President imposes again. Third. Decide to index our savings according to the 1996 law. And the fourth. All the funds from the "acquisition" are sent back to the population, as everything was built on our money. A letter of appeal received at the general meeting of cheated investors on October 28, 2002, unanimously by 120 votes. The city of Sumi." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u223	National MP, Sitnik Constantine Mercuryovich, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, prepare Shulzi.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u224	Sitnik, Ukrainian Republican Party Council. I want to touch two questions. One is the violation of scientific ethics and the laws of academic life. And the second is about human rights violations. I address you in particular, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, because you and I are members of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and we have responsibilities to Ukrainian fundamental science. We must maintain the purity, the high role and dignity of Ukrainian fundamental science. You know, today, there are six colleges of state, i.e. academics, where the state pays for the lives and scientific activities of academics and correspondents. And now the candidate can become an academic at the State Academy. It's an absolute violation of common sense and the laws of academic life and the traditions that we have in academic life. When a candidate of science in the field of management and then a doctor in the field of economics becomes a member of the National Academy Bureau and heads up, becomes head of the scientific academic center, it's a major violation, it's a gross violation. I didn't talk about it, but yesterday this figure became number two or number one in Ukraine. Well, they took it as figure number one. How can we allow the morals of science to fall further? I'm sure you can't. And you can't let people of a species like our prime minister today or, say, the tax collector of Azarov begin to wear the high name of the academy of the National Academy. Vladimir Mikhailovich, once again, I personally address you: let's go together, involve other people, make sure that this does not happen, that science is pure. And two, literally two words. I've just been to Lugansk, and I've accepted tens of three people, and there were the residents of two dormitories -- the former Lugano battery and the Donets factory. I'm talking to the Attorney General of Ukraine: get rid of, well, you can't abuse people's rights like they do in Lugansk. Get out of the way and help people live by our laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u225	National deputy Shulga Mikola Aleksandrovich, Communist faction. Prepare Petrova.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u226	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to continue with the topic of social morality and the problems that have been affected here. I would like to draw your attention to the dramatic changes that are taking place in the moral mind of young people. This has already been the subject of discussion on young people. But I would like to draw your attention to what sociological research shows. The young generation found themselves in information and culture, which constantly offers them patterns of behavior that put money and primitive pleasure first. There are notable differences between people of different generations, especially among modern - day youths. She had a very strong, relative to the older generation, and the value of her profession had fallen. Yeah, in answer to the question, "What do you think most people are willing to do for a lot of money?" - 35 percent of people under the age of 30 think they can give up a job, a job, while people over 55 -- only 15 percent think so. Clearly, this is a very dangerous phenomenon. A society where young people do not appreciate their profession and are willing to change it easily for money has no future in a technologically overcrowded world. Clearly, signs and unemployment are given here, not being able to choose one’s job by one’s own profession. But these same data also reveal the destruction of the value of a professional self - affirmation. Already, 50 percent of young people feel that for money, most people are willing to work hard to pay well. Another sign of our time in our country is the willingness for money to go around the law. One third of these are young. Even such romantic feelings as love are not of much value to young people today. 35 percent of youths feel that for the sake of money, people are willing to marry without love. It is not only a feeling of pure love but also a feeling of love for your Father. By now 55 percent of people under the age of 30 feel that for a large sum of money, most people are willing to go to another country where they can earn more money. To sum up, between a third and a half of young people have lost our traditional moral orientations. If an individual had previously faced a problem of being or being a mother, he is now practically determined to benefit his mother. Society's trying to scream SOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u227	Thank you. It's really such a terrible statistic. We will probably need to talk about this during the parliamentary hearings on youth. Simon's, please, out of procedure. Turn on the microphone, national MP Simonov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u228	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Simonov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you didn't notice that there's nothing on the right side of the hall. And I don't think "our Ukraine" is quite one Carmazin only works all day and most of it doesn't. I wonder if they went out on Friday to make a deal or to settle some questions. It's the most important thing that today is, everyone's speaking, making their own proposals, "It's different," which is very interesting to hear. So I have an offer, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to make a registration, then publish who was on the Miscellaneous?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u229	Maybe I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u230	Or the registration to do just on "The Different," then see who's in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u231	All right, we got a deal. Let's go before we finish, then we'll register as we finish our work. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u232	Victor Petrov, Communist Party of Ukraine, Vinnitsk region. Dear people's deputies, we passed the law yesterday, set the minimum wage for 237 bracelets. How can you live without more than half a year's pay? This trouble came to the family of three thousand winemakers, employees of the Winnick factory. This year, the prospect of the complete closure of the newly flourishing eighteenth State headgear plant, where more than 10,000 people are employed, should be added. With the arrival of so-called reforms, the plant is in serious condition, but it was able to maintain 3,000 jobs last year, there were defence funds, and there were signs. The final destruction of the plant came with the transfer of the stock control package to the property of the Donek Corporation Ukriinterproduct. The new owner did not implement the privatization plan for investments. Moreover, 9.7 million grevens were removed from the factory's territory free of charge, which deprived the factory of working capital, eventually led to the closure of the plant and the bankruptcy of the enterprise. How can you not see that the Donetsk Corporation is not going to start a factory? There are very different plans: valuable unique equipment to sell in particular to the Kharkiv bearing, the rest on scrap metal. The position of the State Property Fund of Ukraine was particularly surprising, since the direct duty of the Fund was to file an action before the Economic Court for the annulment of the privatisation contract in connection with the failure of the buyer of the shares to comply with its terms of reference. Instead, representatives of the Fund shall constitute an act of alleged execution. It is fair to ask factories not only about payment of salaries, but also about the work of the factory, preventing further reduction of workers, and maintaining equipment that is very unique among them. All of us cannot help but resent the fact that the State, more precisely its officials, does not need a factory, it can be deliberately destroyed. And they don't care about the fate of the workers, they can be thrown out on the street, they can be given to the dispersion of the fat cats. Unlike the senior police, who had fulfilled their obligations by adopting the city's social sphere of the factory, unfortunately, the regional government instead of assisting the labour force had all its efforts to create a commission and noise around its empty activities. The results of the work of the government commission established at the direction of the Prime Minister, who is now former, are not visible or heard. Trade unions, the factory committee, the industry circuit, and the Winnicka Federation were the protection of the labour community. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please consider my request to the Attorney-General for the finished goods exported to the State Property Fund for 9.7 million dollars in respect of his competence. And Prime Minister Yanukovic has the opportunity to show how sincere his report was yesterday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u233	National Deputy Lechchenko, Communist faction, prepare for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u234	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable People's Deputies, those who remain in the hall, and honourable voters, are always in place. I want to break two questions in my speech. First. Interior Minister Smyrnov went to factions, including the Communist faction, and asked us to help protect the budget proposals they made. And that's right, because there's a lot of lower warehouses in this unsatisfactory material state, but how is this lower militia warehouse used? For political persecution of opposition. And to me, by the way, when I was on a house-to-house session, the investigator phoned several times and even came home, which is what my car was in Kiev on September 16th. Pressure is also being exerted on young people who were in Kiev on that day. Why is senior investigative officer of the Department of Internal Affairs Major Kotov calling at the message of young people, well, Gnatuk Sergey, Miracle Danilo -- this is in Chernigow and asking the question: were you in Kiev, what were you doing there? They're scared. This Miracle spoke out of fear of something that was not at all, for he saw it in his eyes, wearing a gastropod on a man. And four of the investigators of this Central Investigation Authority in Chernigov are in charge of the case. What more is there for them to do? Next. I have a record of an official warning against violations of public order and other illegal acts on November 7th of the village of Kipti Kozeletsky. "I, the Commander of the First Company of the Special Battalion of the DPS DAI, Captain of the Blizzard Police, have made an official warning to the citizen--the name is, the address is--that he has been officially warned against violations of public order and other illegal acts." People get on a bus, they take a warning like that. I think it's a shame. I demand that Minister Smyrnov stop the persecution of people on political grounds. And the second question. Well, in our country right now, you know, there's a lot of artificial business bankruptcys going on, and then they're going to buy for nothing, for a penny. Well, in Chernigiv district, let's say the Grodnian Combokerm factory, the Corobian Inter-economic Building Organization went bankrupt and so forth. So I went to Minister Lavrinovich and asked them to clear up, so why is it that people in the ship's organization Lihosherst have not paid out over a year and a half of thousands of dollars of debt since 1999 and why they still don't get fired from their jobs because there is no organization. The answer is this: For the time being, to ensure the execution of a court’s decision to raise funds in favour of the Freckler, as well as the formation of his dismissal on the basis of, well, KZOT does not seem possible in connection with the bankruptcy of an enterprise. Is that the minister's response? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u235	National Deputy Orzhachowski, prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u236	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear Head, national MPs, voters! Let me draw your attention to the problem of the government, which is relevant to the state, the inhabitants of Kalanchik, Skadowski, the Hersonian region of the Hersonian region, a number of areas in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where I have been able to visit and hear a point of view for days on the need for urgent assistance to the rice sector of Ukraine. Growing rice for the southern regions of the country is guaranteed jobs, wages, the prospects for their inhabitants. Concerned to raise the problem at the level of the country’s legislative and executive authorities has also been raised by the leaders of the Rice Association. They say that if conditions are created, it is possible to provide the country with its own high-quality rice-nutrient food. In the 1960s, more than 60,000 hectares of rice systems were built in southern Ukraine. This enabled the production of more than 150,000 tons of rice. The decline in its production in recent years to 90,000 tons has been caused by reckless privatization of rice systems. As we know, rice is a high-cost industry, so in all the countries in the world where it grows, it creates the right conditions to support it. Hersonians have repeatedly had to turn to the government, the Supreme Council, the President, but the matter has not been moved. It was not possible to raise the premium and full rates of combined import duties on imports into Ukraine of rice, which should support the country's figure, as the bill submitted to the Supreme Council was rejected in a previous call. In order to save their own rice, which was also threatened with total destruction, the Russian government, for example, not only raised import rates in 2001, but also introduced quotas for imports of rice. This exacerbated the situation in the country, and the flow of cheap raw materials from Asian countries began to flow to us, including illegally. Last year, the International Symposium of Scientists of the World, held in Krasnodar, where scientists from Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary warned against making mistakes when the cheap rice from Egypt and Asia was virtually destroyed. In response to the demands of time, efforts to promote the state, people's employment in Ukraine must be avoided primarily by creating an equal, competitive environment for domestic and imported rice in the internal market. This is possible if the price of imported rice at the place of delivery is not lower than the value of $1,450. It would be necessary to implement the increase in the proposed rates of import duty on rice to take measures to prevent smuggling. In the event of a positive response by government officials, which I hope will only be won by our national producer, the local budget, and the state budget. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary appeal to the government of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u237	Paul Matvienko, European Choice Group. And we need to consult. We still have, uh, respectable colleagues, seven national deputies. Shall we listen? Ladies and gentlemen, for 15 minutes, I suggest we proceed so that everyone can speak. Okay? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u238	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u239	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the Korosten constituency I represent is one in the Polish region, with low-born lands, and then poor farms. The overall situation is compounded by the Chernobyl disaster that struck all the five administrative areas in the area. So social problems, which are becoming extremely acute, are actually compressed by the Chernobyl program, and local businesses are financially and economically weak. In addition, the State owed the previously built facilities to them, which does not contribute to the construction of social facilities with its own funds. This is because there are social problems that the state could successfully solve. I'm not going to talk about per cent of the gasification of the country's villages, which is today unrealistic, but the sharpness of the supply of compressed gas and solid fuel in rural villages can be removed in time and in full, allocating the necessary resources from the State budget. That's why it's the Cabinet of Ministers and the Budget Committee that I'm addressing the issues that need to be addressed. In particular, the need for funds from the General Budget Fund to ensure the proper functioning of budgetary institutions and institutions is calculated in the Gitomir Region, and the implementation of delegated programmes is 862.1 million. That's right. So the lack of funding in the area is $226.4 million. Money or 25 percent. In all areas of the Gitomir region, the level of expenditure shown in the area service centres does not provide for the need to pay workers a salary of 1.3 million dollars. Money and energy bills $0.2 million That's right. Compared to the 2002 figures, expenditure was reduced by 0.6 million. Money, and this is because the number of single incapacitated citizens is constantly increasing. And finally. The budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is invited to make changes to the draft budget code of Ukraine to cancel special investment regimes in the areas of priority development in Ukraine. This, dear colleagues, cannot be done in any way, because the further functioning of the Special Investment Regime in the Zitomir region is very important for the socio-economic development of regions affected by the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. In this regard, I appeal to you, national deputies, when considering these changes to the budget code, not to support these changes that are being prepared in the budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u240	People's deputy Solomonine. Prepare Rahanski. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u241	Thank you. On November 15, at 11 a.m. in Kiev, at 11 a.m. in the Forest Square of Ukraine, there was a large public meeting of residents of the Kyiv region with the Ukrainian people’s deputies and opposition forces. There were about three thousand people. From the "Our Ukraine" bloc, there was a national deputy of Ukraine, Eugene Jętjak, Anatoly Grzezhev, and Yuri Solomatin, from the Ukrainian Company. People were interested in this meeting, how did those politically opposite forces come together, and what unites them? The answer was yes, and people agreed. As in 1941, Stalin, Roosevelt, and Churchill formed an anti - Hitler coalition, and now the political forces that are part of the opposition have created an anti - Hunchm and anti - Sussex alliance. People were protesting the rise in housing and utilities tariffs, and this actually took place in almost a dozen districts of the Kyiv region. And they protested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling of 7 June 2001 on the immediate resignation of Kyiv district governor Anatolia Draha had not been implemented. The people in this square have collected signatures under your call, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I have the opportunity now to hand over this address on behalf of three thousand people, even though the signatures here have only been signed by the chief representatives of all parts of the Kyiv region. Today we can say this about the holy land of Kiev. People have been watching very closely the election of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And when Mr. Janukovich was elected to this high office, it became clear that this choice of the majority would further undermine the opposition forces and make this victory the last victory, the pyrrious victory for most, and it would be the final attack of opposition, antichrist, antichrist and antichrist. Power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u242	The people's deputy Rahanski, the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trouble Ukraine", is invited to the floor. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u243	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, "Trudova Ukraine", interfractional association "Deputy Oblivion". Your Honor, your colleagues. In recent times, including today’s meeting of the Supreme Council, the opportunity to speak is limited. And that's every day. Because of a violation of the Rules by speaking colleagues. Do not be offended by law - abiding MPs who are usually the same. And the chairman of the sittings cannot stop the speaker by explaining the rules to him. So please, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, give an order to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for the fast-track installation of a device in the "Rada-3" system that would turn off the microphone of speakers after the use of the time-limit. By the way, this system works in all European parliaments. This will allow more deputies to speak. And now, essentially. Rahanski, Kravczuk, Osika, Rizak on September 6, the registration number 2157, introduced a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002. The Committee on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster supported the bill by agreeing with the Ministry of Social Work, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, and acknowledging its necessity and relevance and requesting the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the bill and submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, so far, this bill has not been introduced by the profiling committee to the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, this is about the redistribution of capital contributions from the Ministry of Social Labour, which are not being used today, which remains for one month, to the Ministry of Mintopenergo to finance the cost of building housing in the village of Lesne for Chernobyl. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I also request that the Committee on Budget Affairs be given an immediate mandate to submit this bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u244	Thank you, too. National MP Kalinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, prepare Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u245	Clothing, Kalinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! In November 2000, the disaster and many areas of the Odessa region, including Ananova, Velikomyhailski, Ivanovski, Lubaczyvski, Razdljanski, Frunzenski, and Shiriyai district, resulted in material damage and, in particular, disrupted conductive radio talk. The VAT Department, Motivating that the provision of services to the population by live radio is unprofitable, considers it necessary to switch to live radio. But in the complex relief of the area, radio is not guaranteed to receive radio programs in a large part of the population. In addition, not all residents of villages, where most pensioners are able to obtain live radios. At the same time, the advantages of radio broadcasting are obvious. First. Three-pronged languages in Ukrainian and six-programme languages in the future. It's different. The wire radio to the most remote locations is independent of the geographical relief. Third. The radio is the most widely available and widely available source of information in emergency situations. Thus, today there is no viable alternative to conductive speech. I personally spoke to the Head of the State Committee on Information Policy, Television, and Radio. The address was readdressed in the Democratic Republic of Ukraine. The answer was that, due to the need for substantial funds to restore liner speech facilities, it was not appropriate to do this. To provide comfort, it was reported that as many as 540 broadcast radios were purchased for former WAT subscribers in the Odessa region, but this is from the need of 0.00 whole. That is why we agrarians believe that the Democratic Union of Ukraine, to which VAT is subordinated by Ukretelek, needs to take fundamental steps to restore the village’s conductive language. The National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, in accordance with Presidential Decree No. 1193 of 06.12.2002, needs to reconsider the development and restoration of conductive language in Ukraine and its stable, full and unbreakable functioning as the main part of the Single National Communication System, which is rightly insisted on by the State of the Ukraine. Please consider my speech as a parliamentary appeal to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine and the Democratic Republic of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u246	National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready for school. Please, Andrew School, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko and we will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, those who remain are the most resilient national MPs, and I fully agree that the electorates who listen to us, they are more firmly aware of the issues of the Supreme Council than most national deputies, not the majority, but much, I would like to say. And that's actually the question, I'd like to stop at that, that's the first and second kind of MPs. How to work in the Supreme Council is one way to go to Brussels and do nothing, so it's the other. You see, I'm representing a border constituency here, this constituency is a constant source, let's say, of the border revenue and the road that leads from the border to the city of Lviv. So the question of cross-border cooperation, the question of interstate relations between Ukraine and Poland, is the question of my constituency. I, as a national deputy, prepared a report from my colleague Tarasyuk's request for a report from this ravine, there was supposed to be a trip to Brussels, and of course a person who doesn't know what a border is or what an electorate is, or where Poland is in general, and failed that question. So I, the honourable electorate, am primarily asking you to know that there will be no cross-border cooperation between Poland and Ukraine, this is the fault of certain political forces who decide that it is not the person who works or does not work, but the person who belongs to a political group or faction. And I'd like to stop at one question. Speaking of cross-border cooperation and borders, I was amazed to know that the national MPs did not vote on my request that -- they did not support -- that there was an embassy, the Consulate General of the Foreign State. Of course this foreign consulate of the state of Russia is friendly, everything, well there's just a certain relationship and a certain diplomatic, certain diplomatic label. You can't do that. Then we'll give up the Ukrainian Security Service, it'll work bad anyway, maybe the FSB will work better. So there are some questions about the diplomatic label, you can't do that. And I was wondering who gave the permission. The town council says it wouldn't, Lvivska. The district work didn't work. No one gave, and the embassy there, the consulate ended up. I don't mind, I've been in favor of having the generals of the consulates of all the states whose citizens live in this territory in the past. But nevertheless, I want to know, I want this to be accepted. Count this as a request to the Cabinet of Ministers to finally give me an answer as to who granted permission to have a consulate in the territory of the Border Armed Forces headquarters. The Consulate General of the Foreign State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-22-m0.u248	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Of all the questions raised in your statements, appropriate questions will be prepared, and appropriate instructions will be given to inform you of the outcome of the discussion. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next planning session will begin at 10 a.m. on November 26th. Thank you for your work and good-bye.
