ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Turn on the system. Please register. [[10:03:40]] Registered -369 There were 369 national deputies registered in the hall. Organisation The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, as you know, on October 10th the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR came out of existence on October 5th, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh calls, the head of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR in 1969-1972, Alexander Pavlovich Ljasko. Please honor the memory of Alexander Pavlovich for a moment of silence. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Vasadze Tariel Shakrovič, who was 55 years old. Let's welcome and wish for all kinds of good things. [[Applause]] Today is the birthday of our colleague Gabrieluk Ivan Jaroslavovich, and let us also welcome him. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you of the entry of Ukrainian national deputies Boyk Volodymir Semenović and Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich into the membership of the parliamentary group "European Choice"; Bilvola Alexandr Mikolaiovich and Volkova Aleksandra Mihajlovich into the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I also inform you that the leader of the European Election Group has been elected the authorised representative of this group, Vladimir Julius Pehoto. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please apply. In the meantime, I will announce, if there is no objection, the parliamentary questions that have come. The Ukrainian MPs' request for Anatolia Moroz to the President of Ukraine for preservation from the liquidation of Ukraine's only unique diesel-building company, VAT "Posdendizelmash" city of Tokmak Zaporez Region. I would like to vote in favour of this request. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[10:07:11]] For 201 For - 201, the decision is made. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. To do that, I remind you, it takes 226 votes. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[10:07:36]] For 197 For 197, no decision is taken. Leonidas Czernovecki to the President of Ukraine regarding illegal congregations of business subjects I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:08:01]] For 139 For - 139, no decision taken. Anatoly of Moroz to the President of Ukraine on land management and land acquisition by residents of the villages of Lake and Korniyivka of the Wesseli district of Zaporozhi region, in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine. I would like to vote in favour of this request. Please make up your mind. [[10:08:35]] For-167 For - 167, the decision is made. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the President of Ukraine, the same request. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[10:08:59]] For-164 For - 164, no decision is made. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the insufficient financing of social objects provided for by the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002. I'll bet you a vote on that request. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:09:28]] For-146 For - 146, the decision is made. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the submission to the President of Ukraine on the appropriateness of the occupied post of head of the Kirovograd district administration, Vasil Powery, in connection with acts that fall under the signs of corruption. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:10:00]] For 186 For -186, the decision is made. Catherine Samoylik, Anatoly Orzhachowski, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of a complex of cancer dispensary in Herson. I'll bet you a vote on the direction, please. [[10:10:29]] For-191 For 191, the decision is made. Alexander Stoyan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the underfunded state envisioned by the State Budget for Ukraine for 2002 and the granting of extended credits to young families and single young citizens for construction, reconstruction of housing. I'll bet you a vote on the direction, please. [[10:11:05]] For-187 For - 187, the decision is made. Stanislava Kosinov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 551 on financing from state-owned central capital investments in 2002 for the reconstruction of the House of the State Academy of Russian Dramatic Theatre of the name Pushkina in Kharkiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:11:46]] For-198 To - 198. Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Olujko, Špak, Novak, Burak - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the full allocation of funds provided by government decrees to eliminate the effects of the natural disaster in March 2002 in the Hmelnick region. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. [[10:12:21]] For 211 To - 211. Decision taken. Sergei Nikolayenka and Mikhail Pavlovski, Nikolayenka and Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the implementation of the 2002 edition program for higher education textbooks. I'll bet you a vote on that request. Please make up your mind. [[10:13:02]] For 201 For - 201, the decision is made. Stanislava Kosinov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the prosthetic orthopedic sector of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:13:28]] For 202 For -202, the decision is made. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction with the reply of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the parliamentary question regarding the gross violation of legislation during the privatization of the VAT Lutsky silk combination Voltex. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:14:03]] For a hundred and For 159. Decision taken. Georgia Kruczkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the cost of allowing the United States of America to fly American military aircraft to Afghanistan. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please vote. [[10:14:35]] For 217 For 217, sir. Decision taken. Mikoli Katerenczuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the establishment of the causes of death in Turkey by Judge Nicopolski City Court Achinovich Natalija. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:15:03]] For 203 For 203. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Property Fund for the renewal of the criminal investigation into the illegal forced sale of VAT by Donbasenergo. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:15:33]] For-149 For 149. Decision taken. Leukka Lukyanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the progress of criminal investigation into the sale in 1995 by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine of a radio electronic combat complex, resulting in material damage to the State’s 10 million dollars worth of material damage. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:16:09]] For-143 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine for bringing to justice officials of the internal affairs authorities of Zaporozhye for illegal activities and illegal actions concerning the head of the Zaporozhye district organization Fatherskina, assistant consultant of the national deputy Gacka and deputy head of the Zaporozhye district organization "Batykishina" Veženkova. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:16:50]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the involvement of the deputy head of the Kirovograd district administration of the Negativ until the kidnapping and illegal export outside Ukraine of ancient icons and printed manuscripts. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:17:23]] For 210 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head on violations of current legislation in addressing the question of the abolition of the Road market in the Holy District of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:17:53]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the failure of the prosecutor of the Lviv region to respond to parliamentary appeals and to submit to the Committee on Combating Organised Crime and Corruption on the Abuse of Individual Officials. I'll bet you a vote on the request. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:18:28]] For the 180. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Social Policy and the work of Ukraine on the social situation in the village of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:18:54]] For-137 "For" is 137, the decision is made. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Minister of Interior on the efforts to live in the village of Kropitovna in the region of Cherkas region of Mikhail Atamanyuk. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:19:22]] For-137 "For" is 137, the decision is made. Sergey Slabenka to the Minister of Agriculture’s Policy, Ukraine, explains the reasons for the contradiction of the State’s debt to the Volin region’s producers for their high - condition products. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:19:52]] For 104 "For" is 104, the decision is made. Vladimir Puzakova, Alexander Tkachenka, Omelana Parubka - to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine on the problems of the Sub agricultural enterprise. The famous area of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:20:24]] For 132 "For" is 132, the decision is made. Vladimir Yavorowski - to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine for the revitalization of the Ministry of Search and Return to Ukraine of citizens who have gone abroad and who have lost contact with them. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:20:53]] For a hundred and For" 107, decision taken. I've made all the inquiries that have come to the Secretariat. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to making statements, making proposals, messages from MPs and groups. So far, four factions and groups have submitted applications. I would ask everyone to submit their applications and the names of those who will speak. Let's take 45 minutes according to the Rules, let's do it this way-- 3 minutes. If there's an exaggeration, I'll turn off the microphone so there's no complaints. The National Deputy Boki has a word for making statements from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u2	Statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine on the aggravation of the political situation in Ukraine. Last week there were events that showed a deterioration of the political situation in Ukraine, a fall in the prestige of Ukrainian authorities in the international arena. The government is taking repressive action on civil protest participants "Rise, Ukraine!"..he gives birth to steps that dishonor our state in the eyes of international society. The international condemnation of the regime’s ruler in Ukraine is also strengthened. The democratic community is conducting a clear grading between Ukraine as a state that has taken the path of forming a mature national state and Kuchma as a brake in the movement of democracy. As evidence of the increased activity of the Ukrainians, their lack of acceptance of the regime was the holding of last Saturday in Kiev and the district centers of the People’s Tribunal over Leonid Kuchma. The people charged the President with the most serious charges of economic, cultural, educational, medical, social and pension crimes, corruption and crime, the genocide of their own people, the demoralization of society and the highest form of national punishment -- the universal condemnation and the demand of the courts of Ukraine to consider the matter in accordance with the law, to apply the highest extent of punishment to it. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine believes that the prosecution and the court must now exercise the highest responsibility and maturity to carry out the will of the Ukrainian people on the basis of law. At the same time, we note that the authorities are increasingly showing signs of junta these days, adopting wrong decisions about banning rallying, demonstrations, caring. Moreover, she is making adventure moves in the international arena. It's a manifestation of a violent incompetence, an effort to enrich ourselves, in our opinion, is a note by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to add expertise based on not originals, but copies of Kuchma and Malev. In doing so, the regime seemed to forget that there were other films that would have to be investigated in criminal matters. But they are not disturbed because it is said that there is no original film for the expert. So double standards. With such adventurous moves, the regime is cynically attacking Ukraine for its own sake, to preserve the reign of criminal clans and oligarchy. MPs and Socialists suggest to the Supreme Council that the U.S. leadership be asked to give an official response to the U.S.C. protest note by Ukraine on the basis of Ukrainian expertise on baseless charges against the US side of the violation of UN sanctions by Ukraine. In the same way, we must protect the interests of the Ukrainian State. A draft decision on this issue has been introduced and registered. We stand on what's unique.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u4	by solving the political crisis and the outcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u5	Unplug the microphone. To speak from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the national deputy Kručkov Georgi Korniyovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Recently, in connection with the events in our country, some representatives of the so - called elite have tried to earn political capital on my behalf, to betray me as a man unprincipled, capable of treachery, and thereby to compromise the Communist faction of the party of which I am a member. The first was made very well known by the opposition of the lady, a supporter of truth and justice with a parliamentary mandate, who during one of the ex-speaker television broadcasts, claimed to be a national deputy, Communist Khruchkov filed an application for membership by the parliamentary majority. The lie that was started on television was readily captured by some media. Although the provocative way out was immediately and decisively reprimanded. As I was recently outside Ukraine, I read with amazement in the Internet that the representative of the President of Ukraine, who, apparently, is one of the main figures of today's day, is now not an osmitism, but a concubine, oak or other revolution in parliament, who also called my name among the defectors to the 2000 cures of the majority. The slanderous myths cast a shadow on the Company, on the faction, and on me as a national MP, on a man who is currently involved in political life is deeply morally damaged. This compels me, reflecting the insidious attacks on the Company, to protect both my honour and dignity with all the means allowed by Ukraine's legislation. I demand a public defamation of slander! I do not turn to the conscience of those who have spread lies. In my mind, conscience is such an immaterial substance that it is or is not. There's a conscience -- it forces a person to make a mistake, to do recklessly justice, to find ways to fix it. No conscience -- it's been said to be for a long time. So I'm talking to journalists, and I'm talking to my peers, and I'm talking to my peers, and I'm talking to my peers, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking to them, and I'm talking But I don't need that popularity. Always being yourself, being faithful to one's beliefs, thinking on your own, not necessarily responsible, not being a mechanical performer of one's will, is my firm credo. Believe me, even in our day, when immorality and deceit triumph, political prostitution, treachery, adaptability sometimes seem almost impeccable, not everything is sold and not everyone is sold! I urge you not to be too trusting when it comes to rumors and sensations. Remember, what you say or what you say is an unfair word is hurtful, but it does not add authority to you journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u7	From the faction of the block of "Our Ukraine" is the word of the national deputy Oleg Teagnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, our address as Ukrainian national deputies comes with numerous appeals against the activities of the State Tax Administration under the leadership of Sergey Medvedchuk. Complaints point out the tendency and unreasonableness of long - term checks on the activities of business entities, the provision of gifts on behalf of the tax administration, and the politicization of DPA representatives. The tax system began to perform its own functions. And Sergey Medvedchuk, who became a member of the Lviv District Council, turned the DPA into his own repressive mechanism of destroying political opponents in the Lviv region. By the way, in the city district where the brother of the head of the presidential administration won a questionable victory, the process of collecting signatures of his withdrawal had already begun. Now, from the mouth of the civil servant and the national electorate Sergey Medvedczuk, there are threats and intimidation of local opposing deputies in destroying and creating obstacles to their activities. Perhaps the brother’s intercession gives him the right to be permissive and insolent in the conduct of Mr. Medvedchuk. This civil servant allows himself to carry his own uncensored criminal language to the walls of the sessional hall of the Lviv District Council. In this regard, a request has already been made to the appropriate regulatory commission. Every entrepreneur in Lviv knows very well about the existence of such a "Professional Fund" to which he "absolutely voluntarily, by virtue of his own conscience" pays off the fights, sorry, pays "thank you" for not having problems with the Tax Administration. Recently, one of the drivers of the Orlan concert died from a heart attack after communicating with the Tax Office with such united football lawyers. The so-called Phantom Enterprises, which are very active in Lviv, are able to handle a single number of employees with a monthly salary, think about 200 dollars in one quarter to have more than half-billion dollars in gross income and the same expenses. That's zero taxes. We have a list of these enterprises and we're adding them. These questionable transactions go by with the tax administration’s attention. The same companies are easily reimbursed for VAT, and the real Ukrainian exporting producers have long and often incurring tax thresholds. Or did State official Sergey Medvedchuk make personal incomes and pay taxes on them that allow him to rent a private plane, drive a expensive car, work on his behalf, and work on behalf of a budget agency for expensive gifts. We believe that the DPA, whose activities in the Lviv region under the leadership of Sergey Medvedczuk, have now resulted in the loss of citizens' trust in the tax administration as a state authority. Medvedchuk, with his moral and ethical principles, has no right to hold this office. So we demand the immediate resignation of Sergey Medvedczuk and the establishment of a commission with the participation of national deputies in this commission and district council deputies to verify the tax administration's activities. More than 100 signatures of national deputies have already been collected. Please join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u9	The word for speaking from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine is given by the Desert Tenko Valeriy Pavlovich. Please, Valery Pavlovich. Next will be the national deputy of Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u10	The faction of the People's Democratic Party. It's a wasteland. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The NDP faction in the Supreme Council expresses its concern about the critical situation that still exists in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki after the election of the city's head, as well as the indignation of the actions of the Preyaslav Hmelnicki District Prosecutor's Office, which, even after the intervention of the Prosecutor's Office in the Kyiv region, has failed to take steps to hold those responsible for impeding the execution of the decisions of the City Court on the results of the elections. The point is that, as early as April of this year, the Preyaslav-Hmelnicki City Court, by its decision, obliged the appropriate city election commission to decide on the cancellation of the results of the election of the city's head as part of the registration by the city's head, Gregory Sokor. At the same time, contrary to the court’s ruling, George Sokor took up the post, and all members of the city’s election commission under pressure were forced to file an application for release, which led to her total dissolution. Also in April of this year, the City Court ruled that a criminal case should be brought against the head of the city’s electoral commission for failing to execute a court decision. However, the Prejaslav Hmelnicki Interdepartmental Prosecutor’s Office denied a criminal case involving a member of the City Election Commission, as well as George Sopor himself, for failing to exercise authority and for failing to execute a court decision. The NDP faction was forced to appeal to the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office to find out why the decision of the Preyaslav-Hmělnice City Court was not being carried out to find the town's electoral commission unlawful. As a result of this appeal and after the intervention of the Kyiv District Attorney’s Office, which was entrusted with studying the facts, the decision to refuse the criminal offence was cancelled and the materials transferred to the Preyyaslav Hmelnicki International Prosecutor’s Office for further examination. By this time, however, and more than two months later, the Prejaslav Interstate Prosecutor’s Office had failed to take action to bring to justice those responsible for impeding the execution of judicial decisions. On the basis of this, the faction of the People's Democratic Party draws the attention of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the unsatisfying state of enforcement of the decisions in the Prejaslav Hmeljna District of Kyiv and requires immediate action to bring to justice the persons involved in creating obstacles to the execution of decisions. Members of the NDP faction believe that similar facts in the activities of the judiciary not only undermine the authority of the judicial system but also undermine the ability of citizens to protect their rights, dignity and dignity. People's deputies would like to support the appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u11	From the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko is the national deputy of Pavlovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, journalists, I would like to inform you about the state of democracy, and more specifically about the ideology of totalitarianism that we see today during the "Resurrender Ukraine" campaign. I want to say that all the meetings without exception are legally held. But you hear on TV every day that they're banned by the courts, that they're illegal. What is more, by using the ideology of totalitarian regimes, people are intimidated, prevented from going to the rally. This is the only right that humans have. Moreover, in violation of article 3 of the Constitution, the authorities must act in the interests of the people, and we are convinced that they are acting against the people. And the reaction of the people today I would like to bear witness to the results that we received during the People’s Tribunal on October 12th, particularly in Kiev. And by the way, such tribunals took place, apart from Zitomir, in all of them, without excluding the district centers. This is also not to be mentioned. So we had to see, hear those people who came to this tribunal and talked about their pain, talk about the genocide that today is against the Ukrainian people, about the betrayal of national interests. All of this is generalized in the judgment on behalf of the Ukrainian people. At which point, I point out, the People's Tribunal was led by prominent legal professionals: President-in-Office of Oljinik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Secretary of the Vienna Joseph Vicentiyovich; national prosecutors: Šishkin Viktor Ivanovich, former Prosecutor-General of Ukraine; Head of Sergei Petrovich; Omelchenko Grigory Omelanovic; Jermak Anatoly Vasilovich. As a result, the People’s Tribunal found Cuchma’s citizen Leonid Danilovich guilty of 35 articles of the Criminal Code. Thus, the people deserve the highest possible penalty of eternal imprisonment. This was what the people demanded. And when they first put to the vote the question, "Can Kuchma be innocent?" So you would see, no one, not even the police present, the S.U.S.A., has raised his hand because Kuchma wasn't guilty, but everyone has unanimously confirmed that President Kuchma Leonid Danilovich is really guilty to his people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u13	Unplug the microphone. The next will be from the faction, from the MEP's group "European Choice" Vernidubov Ivan Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Last week we worked in our districts. Just as the days of an elderly person - the International Day of Older Persons - arrived on October 1st, the festivities of teaching, so I think I have met as many as I have in the Veterans' collectives. In order not to comment on people's perception of our work, I will allow myself to quote the statement of the President of the Council of Veterans of the Balaklav region of Sevastopol, who has been chair of veterans for 15 years now, very well-deserved man of Palchinov Pavel Vasiljevic. Here are some of his words, and I asked him to speak. “I would like to recall,” he said, “that the main political and social significance of this year has been the election to the local councils of the authorities of the Supreme Council. We hoped that the elections would have a fateful impact on Ukrainian citizens. We are entitled to expect from a new MP a creative positive legislative activity that can stimulate economic growth and improve the well-being of the people and veterans together. It must be made clear that the elections took place because about 65 per cent of pensioners came to the polling stations and more in some polling stations and expressed their attitude towards candidates. All authorities and parties must conclude from this that there will be more elections and broader elections ahead, and the first steps of the Supreme Council are not aimed at the interests of the people and the country, but at the struggle for power, for its transfer to the country. And a people who have confidence is something that can be forgotten. Dear comrades, these meetings stated that the main task was and was the struggle for survival, for the interests and rights of war veterans, for labour and for the armed forces. This should be a practical effort to care for a person, specific assistance, attention, support, not a rally. It was pointed out that the individual MPs who had been on the way to the rally had lost their pants for 10 years in this Supreme Council and all the trouble. Point to the executive branch, to the President and require his removal. Dear comrades, the "European Choice" faction calls for consolidation, that very many laws, and we are being tipped off by veterans, our constituents, to deal with the people's vibrant needs, must come down to the ground. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u15	From the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, the people's deputy Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk has the floor. Please, Catherine Timothy. Faction representatives who have not yet made any requests, please make an application.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u16	Ukrainian Agrarian Party, Ukrainian Agrarians faction, Catherine Vaschuk. Dear colleagues! Whether it's political or it's economic, it's economic, it's the budget and economic growth of the Ukrainian State that determines how production works, how the agricultural sector works, how our industry works, how small businesses live. I want to address our government on behalf of the Ukrainian Agrarians faction. The agricultural sector has been underfunded for the last six months, more than ever. Those modest funds that have been budgeted to support the development of such an important sector as agrarians have confirmed agriculture by bringing Ukraine to sixth place in the world after the export of bread, proving that it is not every year thanks but contrary to the growth of agricultural production. What do we have? The reformed agricultural sector, which needs constant support and attention, is now left alone with its problems. An unfunded article on repayment of interest on loans received. Almost no funding was received under the article on support for large - scale livestock conditions. What does that mean? It would seem that 270-300 dollars in premium for the cattle in the house is over 400 kilograms -- is that such a problem? - and to a man, a peasant who's been humping for two years to feed this cattle, that's an extra income for the family. What's more, you know all the problems and prices for agricultural production, they don't cover the cost of producing it, especially in the field of animal production. And this article is vital. We did not start funding, practically, on the social development of the village, social construction. We're all back from the districts. More than ever, people turn and ask: "Dear People's Deputies, note that what you are voting for in the Supreme Council is not being carried out today." That's why I'm calling on the government to insist that we don't have the village to save the budget, we have to support the development of the agrarian sector, and it's going to give the story.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u17	Unlock the microphone. Dear colleagues, there is a national deputy, Sovkovic, from the nonfractional group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. What is police? This is a state institution designed to monitor the rule of law and protect the constitutional rights of citizens. That's how it's supposed to be. But when their units start to work, not in the interests of the state and its citizens, they execute criminal orders from criminals, politicians, in general any foreign forces, such militias and their leaders pose a real threat to the national security of the state. I think all of you, especially the heads of the profile committees, Mr. Stretovich and Mr. Krutchev, understand that very well. I finally felt this on October 12, when my car with the Supreme Council’s numbers was attacked by strangers in a civilian who never presented any IDs or documents. They forcefully pulled the car out of the living room by the feet of me, my driver, and my passengers. After that, they threw away a certificate like no good, because I don't think it's necessary for them. That same day, I wrote a statement on behalf of Mr. Smyrnov, Minister of Interior, on criminal acts against me as a national deputy and as a citizen. I learned that in illegal activities, officers from the headquarters were involved in the fight against the organized crime of the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which led this devastating attack. Their actions were sanctioned by the first Deputy Secretary of State, Michael Giga. Dear colleagues, each of you can imagine yourself in my city. Whether you are a member of the majority or a minority. I'm asking all of you to support the creation of a High Council investigative committee to investigate this precedent so that someone sitting in this room doesn't become the next one, because how can we protect the rights of our electorates if we can't prove that we can't force ourselves to defend our rights? I am grateful to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin for his prompt response to my appeal in this matter. But I don't understand the conduct of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Smyrnov, who commissioned Jiji to conduct the service investigation, so Jiji himself, who was sanctioning this crime? After that decision, I still have to ask our legislative body to make every effort to prove that the law in Ukraine is superior to everything else, including jigs. The minister's cynical decision prompted me to file a motion to suspend membership until all the guilty are punished. I ask members of the majority to understand me correctly: I do not call you to political blackmail, but each one of us has his own dignity, each of us doesn't want to be wiped out about us, each of us has to make our own decisions. Thank you. I now wish to convey to Vladimir Mikhailovich the Supreme Council's decision to set up an interim commission of inquiry into the attack on Deputy Sevkovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, all the applications that were in the Presidency are satisfied. Desirable statements from factions and groups have been made. With regard to the proposal of the National Deputy Sivkovic, I would like to inform you, and his information, I would like to bring to your attention that I spoke to the Minister of Internal Affairs twice yesterday, to the head of the Security Service, I have made official inquiries to ensure that a comprehensive investigation is conducted in order not to allow anything similar in the future to be brought to justice under the current legislation. As for the proposal to create a commission of inquiry, a national deputy, I'll give it to register in the proper order, and then we'll look at it if that's your will. Is there no objection? What, the procedure? Please, Alexander Frost of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u20	Alexander Moroz, Socialist Party of Ukraine Although it's a majority representative, but considering the urgency of the fact and the necessity of investigating it, I would think it would be possible to vote and create this commission now, because we know the law enforcement officers, they know how to cover their tracks. And it would be necessary to give the deputies the opportunity right now, and so that this commission could investigate the case of the Soviets Vladimir Leonidovich and the Rudzkov Mikolaiovich Mikolaiovich with exactly the same motivation, with the same illegal actions of law enforcement officials. I think we could vote now, and colleagues would support, I think, most of the time, and not most of the time, this proposal, complemented by a commission to check for Rudzkowski's beating.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u21	Please, National Deputy Simonenko. If it's out of procedure, let's sign up now. Five minutes out of procedure, because it's going to take all the time. Peter Mikolaiovich. And please record from the procedure. Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. I've already announced. Please turn on Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u22	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We are with you when the laws of Ukraine are brutally violated. And if that has anything to do with the national MPs. So we're in trouble in the state. I can argue by analyzing the latest actions of law enforcement agencies that we have a police mafia tasked with taking official power in the state. Today, by breaking the laws, she is making a mockery. And I confirm that when, let's say, citizens who bought bus tickets from Kirovgrad district stop at 12 o'clock at night, they throw people on the road. Then we came to Kiev -- the same thing. The chief of DAI Kirovograd district came here to pick up buses, drive them to Kirovgrad, and leave people on the street. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to stress once again that we must now vote in favour of this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u23	Turn off the microphone. National MP. Please, a national MP will be here in a moment. All right, let's go. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, then the National MP Bezpalov. Matthew's handing out Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u25	So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is exactly the testimony and the argument that is added to those earlier stated to us that the issue of the political situation in the state must be urgently considered on Thursday, because it is already dangerous both for the formation of a system of power and for our people, so to speak, those who may not see this threat today and without giving themselves a report still support this regime and this power. We suggest that on Thursday we consider the political situation in the state, give proper assessments, ask questions about the dismissal of the minister of the interior, and now vote on the establishment of a commission to investigate this shameful fact of criminal activity by law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u26	National MP Bespalov, People's Landing Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u27	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Indeed, the event that took place with Deputy Sivkovic should not leave no one in the room indifferent. And I'm surprised why they were so indifferent. Today it's Sivkovic, tomorrow it could be any of us. I understand that the reasons for this may have been different. Yet, from time to time, we must not be left indifferent by the repeated actions of our law enforcement agencies. I support the decision to set up an investigative commission, and I would like to invite today to hear immediately from the Minister of the Interior and Jigu, his deputy, who has given orders on these actions. So this is a statement from the People's Authority group, which is our common view.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u28	Please, National Deputy Belarus, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u29	National deputy of Belarus. Dear colleagues, the situation in Ukraine needs to be considered not only in the light of one case. This is a common, regular, consistent practice. I can call you dozens of cases of gross violation of the Constitution, article 15 of "On freedom of political activity", article 17. on the prohibition of the use of military uniforms against the people; article 28 on the prohibition of torture, torture; article 29 on the prohibition of arrest without a court order; article 34 on guarantees of freedom of speech and thought; article 39 on peaceful demonstrations, demonstrations. And all of this in practice is ignored brutally, arbitrarily. That is why I support colleagues who spoke in defense of the national deputy Sovkovic and.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u30	Turn off the microphone. National MP Bespali, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u31	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! This is how we draw a common position. I think we should make the next decisions right now. First. Now to vote on the inclusion of the commission today and to create a commission, only to be completed as proposed by Deputy Frost, also by investigating an incident involving the MP Rudzkowski. The other one. We can do this, although there is no law, because temporary, including parliamentary commission investigators, are directly provided for in the Constitution. And I particularly draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council to the fact that the executive authorities are not cooperating properly with these constitutional bodies. And the third. Considering that the President of Ukraine does not sign an approved law by the Supreme Council on the interim commission of inquiry, I think we should refer to the Committee of Profiles and to the Head of the Supreme Council and, in the near future, include questions on the schedule of meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u32	Unplug the microphone. Dear colleagues! Deputy Sovkovic proposed such a decision. I'll read it to you and make you an offer. "The Supreme Council decides: First. Create a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to investigate the attack on the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sovkovic. The other one. Recommend to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Smyrnov to remove the first Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Jigu from performing his duties until the conclusion of the interim commission of inquiry is reached." I suggest. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. Now to entrust the two committees to which Deputy Sevkovic appealed, this is the Committee to Combat Organized Crime and National Security and Defence, that they have been working for 20 minutes to develop the composition of the commission and that we should vote on this document, which will now work for the two committees. Is there no objection? I now ask the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Vasiliev Hennady Andriyovich, to sit down with the committee leaders and work on this project. Let them work, we'll vote. I said let them work. Dear colleagues! You have a schedule for today. A draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is being introduced. A professional committee proposes to consider this issue for 25 minutes. Is there no objection? Suggested for the report and the report for 5 minutes. To answer the question to the co-rapporteur and to the reporter, five minutes. And five minutes of discussion. Please, Alexander Markovich Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u33	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Today, we are discussing together four bills that have been passed by the people's deputies from the President by submitting committees corresponding to the profile. What are we talking about? This is about making changes and additions to the Criminal Procedure Code. In particular, with regard to article 112, which regulates the subjectivity. The issue is that on 12 July 2001, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which, inter alia, states in a new edition of article 112 on the criminality of crimes. A careful study of this standard indicates that the law has carried out a significant audit of the crime’s perpetuity. Yes, a whole series of articles that regulate the fight against economic crime and the issue of the assignment of authority, the title of the official, the violation of legislation on Ukraine’s budgetary system. Since September 1, 2001, they have been confined solely to the prosecution of the prosecutor’s office. And a number of other articles: Adaptation, waste of property, possession by abuse of a position of service that brings together former articles 84 and 86. The criminal code of Ukraine and its investigations had previously been carried out by investigators of the body that had committed the crime and had violated the criminal case, and since September 1, 2001, it has also been handed over only to the prosecution’s investigators. That would complicate the crime investigation situation, which actually led to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u34	May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u35	In fact, it led to the fact that the relevant law enforcement agencies that were created to investigate these crimes were units responsible for combating economic crime, well, they lost their authority. At the same time, there were a number of reports in the police about the crimes I had mentioned earlier, and the prosecution became small, small, minor criminal cases about crimes that had previously been successfully investigated in the internal investigation system of Ukraine's internal affairs. We suggest redistribution and no one takes action against these proposals. They agreed to both the profile committees and the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the IMF and a number of other structures that this is to some extent relevant to. Today there will also be a report on the bills that have come from the President of Ukraine, again following the amendments to article 112; and the bill that will report Pristajko, deputy head of the Security Service, will also be amended to this article. It's already saying that there's a mature, well, such a real need to identify the subject, otherwise we won't be able to intensify the fight, first of all, with economic crime, and not only with economic crime, and with official crimes and crimes of another nature, which today do not represent any, well, real legal value or complexity to the prosecutor's office. And we, Volodymyr Romanovich Moysik, a national MP, introduced a second bill, also under article 112, on the investigation of crimes committed by foreign nationals, on the transfer of them to a part that does not apply to the security of the State, on a road accident or on the theft of the persons involved, or on a hooliganic condition, on the other hand, to allow the authorities of internal affairs to investigate alternatively. In 2002, 381 crimes committed by foreigners were discovered by CCS investigators, and these crimes could also be investigated successfully by internal affairs investigators without being transferred to the Security Service investigation unit. The bill was also accepted by law enforcement authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, is there a question for our colleague? Any questions? Well, I'd like you to sign up then. Five minutes to ask. Please point it on the board. National MP Kravchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u37	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I have a question for you, Alexander Markovich. Now, in the context of earlier information, how do you feel about the bills we're adopting on the force? Today, we know clearly that the police, during mass action in the city of Kiev, are provoking people to violate the law. We know that even last Saturday, GAI deliberately directed cars at people to provoke people into unauthorized action. Please tell me, as the Colonel-General, as the author of this bill, how you share the opinion of the people's deputies, the view of the Supreme Council Hall that this semi-criminal structure, which is the roof for the bandits today, must be fought and fought in a legislative manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u38	Thank you. I understand your emotion. I agree that the police must act strictly under the law. And you will agree that we, as deputies, need to adopt a law on peaceful congregations, about the order of their conduct. And then there will be no conflict when, at what time, who, where, what to conduct or who is responsible. And then there's no need to interfere with the central apparatus of the IMF, because it's a matter of local self-government, assembly or some kind of mass political, sporting or cultural action. This is not the case with the police, it is the responsibility of local authorities to provide self-government, the police of local self-government, and the organizers of such mass action.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u39	National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u40	Please pass on the word Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u41	National MP Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u42	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Markovich, well, no doubt what you've reported, about the fact that some of the police articles are being followed up on, and that even, let's say, the S.E.U.S. can lead some questions, we've discussed here with experts, we can support it. But you're a wise man and tell me one more thing: what needs to be done today, what needs to be done to change that so that we don't have to change the minister one at a time by changing into the M.E.S. all the time? Of course, there's a need for, let's say, interior ministers, SBAs, they have a different order, and at least they're part of the government. And so today they are carrying out a clean order from the President’s Administration to bring a man to justice. Well, you can't do that either.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u43	I agree with you that we certainly need to create an appropriate legal field both for internal affairs and for security services and ultimately for all of us, MPs, including. I'd start anyway, my dear colleague, of us having to create a proper legal field. A whole series of laws that regulate law enforcement are in our possession here in the Supreme Council, not looking at what has been going on for months. You've worked on the right committees, you know that. Including such a fundamental law as is necessary, about the internal affairs bodies, which would clearly determine their place, role, responsibility and functions in our society and the state. Ministers change? Well, you know, it's not gonna get any better. Even if tomorrow I'm the minister, whether you're the minister, or whether you're the dearest of us, none of this will change. We need to change the system itself, the system of power, the system of governance. [[B in m in s a l in]] So let's form a majority with you and form a coalition government, and the government will appoint.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u44	National Deputy Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u45	Dear Alexander Markovich, there is no doubt that there is a real need to amend the Criminal Procedure Code. Indeed, economic crime is on an increasing scale, official crime is on an increasing scale, and so, of course, we need to support the bill, in my opinion. But the question is, has there been a need to prepare a new Criminal Procedure Code? We've adopted a new Criminal Code, and we're patching up the Criminal Procedure Code. Why are we going through a patching process rather than a new codex? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u46	Thank you for the professional question. In fact, we're patching up the code, we need to adopt the Criminal Procedure Code, a new code that is more democratic, more stable and responsive to modern realities. But the code has been adopted for years. How long have we worked on the Civil Code? 5 years. How long did we work on the Criminal Code? And the Criminal Procedure Code needs a new edition, of course. But as long as we accept it, we need to make adjustments today, because the crime scene's breast is intact, the prosecutor's office is overloaded, and the police are deprived of their rights. Or the Security Service there too will report to Vladimir Ilchi. I agree with you that we are working on a new Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm ready to take you to the task force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u47	People's Deputy Ivanov, People's Rule Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u48	Alexander Markovich, I am very pleased that most of the deputies support this bill, because, in fact, on the ground, we have encountered such a fact that a number of materials sent to the prosecutor's office for business crimes are either lyricated or unable to do so, there is no investigative apparatus to investigate it. But this raises a question. Do you not think that it is necessary to return to the Act on the Status of the Follower immediately after the adoption of the Act? Because, let's say, by solving one question, we leave the second one completely open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u49	Such a question has indeed matured in our law - enforcement system. Today, there is a distortion: 94 percent of criminal cases are violated and investigated by the IMF, and 3 remaining authorities are investigating 6 percent. Clearly, the role and place of investigator in the law enforcement system, activities, should be identified. I agree with you, I know you're involved in the development of a new draft law on the status of investigator. Let's speed this up. In fact, we have to accept, I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u50	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. Time's up. The word for the report has the head of the Legal Policy Subcommittee, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. There's no Carmagine? Then let's move on to the discussion. Please register to discuss the matter. What's the offer? What if there's no head of the subcommittee? The committee from legal policy suggested that you do a report, a 10-minute report, a 10-minute report, a 10-minute report to Carmazin and 5 minutes to discuss the issue. I am acting on the proposal of the Committee on Legal Policy and the document signed by the committee head. Please register, then we'll have a discussion for 15 minutes, considering there's no co-rapporteur. Please sign up for discussion. National deputy of the school, faction of the ulija timoshenko block, please. He'll be followed by the Bartock national deputy to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u51	People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block. Of course, I agree with the questions asked by the rapporteur that the police have too much rights today, and I think that we must and must now study fully the capabilities and powers that we are giving to this important law enforcement body. I'm convinced that now in the light of the latest action, when the police continue to use it to pull hot chestnuts out of the fire today's existing regime, we need to study very carefully all the laws that will come out of the Supreme Council, all the projects that we're going to be looking at here. Out of this light, we must come to understand that the police must protect order, not the existing regime from the people, protect people, not protect ourselves from people, substituting their leaders, and allowing themselves to be used in the matters that we discussed here today, what happened to National Deputy Sevkovich and Rudzkowski. So I urge all the national MPs to study this very and very carefully before making their choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u52	Thank you. Bartki Vasil Pavlovich, please, the next one is Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u53	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. The purpose of these projects, one of which I am a co-author, is to remove the gaps that have arisen in the current Code of Criminal Procedure following the amendment of the known Law of Ukraine since 12 July 2001. The changes in question did not clearly identify the criminal investigation of crimes that should be investigated by the prosecutor's office, the internal affairs authorities and the Ukrainian Security Service, which gave rise to the burden of investigating criminal cases. The transfer of crimes committed in the field of economics by the prosecutor’s office has had a negative impact on the timeliness of their investigation by overloading investigators and the absence of a mechanism under way in the prosecutor’s office for the interaction of departments, investigation and operational services. What is happening is that the time has come to make changes to article 112, and there is evidence that all the bills that have been introduced, including our bill, conceptually define the same thing, leading to a clear definition of the case-by-case nature of crimes. So I propose to adopt these bills in the first reading. A single law will be prepared for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u54	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u55	Please give the floor to the national deputy to Bandur.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! We're looking at four bills that apply to one article, the 112th Criminal Procedure Code. There's an offer. Listen to all the projects that will report to Kolada and Pristyko, and then discuss them together if necessary. Because it's about one or two articles that don't change the essence of the law. And on the second reading, we're going to go out with the only law that we have in common, because there's no contradiction here. And we're saving time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u57	Thank you. Loboda, the Communist faction. The next one is Belarus. No Loboda? It's a Belarus. It's the next Desert Shadow.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u58	Our faction has discussed this issue and we are opposed to granting additional powers to the judiciary, to the militia. Militia violations that have taken place over the last two years at least. The extraordinary ones used by the Supreme Council until the liberation of ministers of the Interior say that order should be ordered first in the militia, including the fight against corruption. We need to ensure that the police implement the Criminal Code, and even after that, we can consider additional investigational powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u59	A wastebasket, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! All those who wanted to speak took the floor. Deputy Ministers, Deputy Secretary of State of the Interior, Peter Vasilovich Kolyad 1 minute, and Vladimir Ilchi Pristajko 1 minute. Is there no objection? Please. You can come from a place where you don't waste your time. Please, Peter Vasilovich. How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u61	But I'm literally two minutes. Dear National Deputies! When it comes to changes in article 112, I would like everyone to understand that all these crimes are manifested by the internal affairs agencies mostly by the operational services. And we're handing these materials over to the D.A.'s office for today. I mean, to say that giving authority to the police, we already have these powers. It's an investigation. So today's situation is that when the 112 changes were made last year's full prosecution investigation, these materials, which collect our operational services, lie for years, six months, a few months without a solution, that is, there is no forward fight against economic crime. And economic crime is now directed against business, against business, and we cannot adequately defend the interests of business, business. So we ask you to support the bill that the President passed, and it's not very different from the other bills. To vote on it in the first reading, and then on the second reading we'll work out, Alexander Markovich already talked about what minor changes there are, inconsequentially, they don't require much time to work out, and so we'll do a normal bill. And what we need to turn back is we don't require that we expand it, we had it all, but the 112 last year took place on the last day of the summer vacation session, and there we broke down a little bit of wood both from the law enforcement system and from the professional committees. There was no time to work properly. So we're going to accept, we're going to bring back what was in order for the system to work properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u62	Thank you. Vladimir Illich Pristajko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u63	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft law proposes to complete part three of article 112 KPC, assuming that the investigation of crime - I emphasize - the disclosure of information of a military nature that constitutes a state secret, and this article 422 of the Criminal Code will be carried out by the Ukrainian Security Services. [[Registration number 2084]] The object of this crime is the order in which information of a military nature belonging to a state secret in the field of defence is stored. The Ukrainian Security Service investigates similar crimes provided for in articles 328 and 329 of the Criminal Code, where the subject is the regime for the protection of state secrets, but the subject is civilians, and article 422 of the Military Service. Article 422 is now being investigated by the prosecution’s investigators. With the adoption of the State Secret Act, which has been defined by the Ukrainian Security Service as a special authority authorized by the State in the field of state secrecy, the whole range of issues, including operational and search, procedure, knowledge, pre-trial investigation, has been referred to as the functions of the Ukrainian Security Service. More than that, the practice has shown, although in most cases the subject of the public secret or the loss of such documents or materials is a specific person to whom this mystery is entrusted, in view of the specificity of the construction of the public secret system prior to the commission of the crimes provided for in articles 328, 329, 422, the officials responsible for the organization of the secrecy regime in public authorities, institutions, organizations, and the supervision of the preservation of the State’s secret, and so on. In such cases it is the responsibility of these individuals for their lack of service, their excess of authority, their abuse of power, and so forth. These crimes are also being investigated by the prosecution. Thus, close to the subject of crimes -- the problems of harm to the State in the protection of state secrets, on the one hand, and the violation of the functions of states, institutions and organizations in the same sphere -- are being investigated by various authorities, which is in fact contrary to the requirements of article 22 of the Criminal Procedure Code on comprehensive, full and objective investigation. That's why it's suggested in article 112 that this text should be added to this part, actually after the figure "334" with the figure "422" and the sentence of this sentence: "If, in the course of the investigation of crimes provided for in articles 328, 329, 422, the crimes provided for in articles 364, 365, 366, 367, - which I referred to above - are committed by a person who is being investigated or another person, if they are related to the crimes committed by the person to whom the investigation is being conducted. They are being investigated by Ukrainian security investigators. The Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice are in favour of this proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. As for the decision, we will be decided on Thursday during the vote. You're being reviewed by the draft law on the order in which land particles are allocated and exchanged. The committee suggests this order of questioning, this question, the minutes for the report, 5 minutes for the interview, 5 minutes for the report, 5 minutes for the interview, 5 minutes for the question to the co-rapporteur, 5 minutes for the discussion. Is there no objection? Please, Anatoly Stepanovich Danilenko, head of the State Committee on Land Resources. Dear colleagues, this is a committee proposal. I'm asking, do you have any objections? If there is any objection, we will follow the pattern. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u65	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the Presidency, distinguished national MPs, to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Land Code, other legal and regulatory acts at the discretion of fellow citizens of agricultural lands who are handed over to them from state ownership to collective property, there is an appropriate work being done in the State to characterize these lands and to grant citizens State acts to the right of private property to land. We believe that this is one of the main tasks of land reform in giving the peasant the legal status of landowner and in securing his constitutional rights to land. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have 6 million people. 840 thousand. Ukrainian peasants have the right to land-pai. Of these, 6.7 is 97.9 percent, the right has been certified by certificates. With certificate owners, 5 million 544 thousand land-particle leases have been made, 4 million 374,000 leases have been made with land-dwelling holdings, 2 million 960,000 leases have been made by peasants. Land leased to landowners amounts to more than 22 million hectares, or 83 percent of the area of spoilt land. The vast majority of leases, which is 2 million 797 thousand citizens, representing more than 50 percent, are made up of 4-5 years. The total amount of land-pile rent payments as at 01.10.2002 is 2 billion 501 million dollars. Among the forms of land-pile rent is natural agricultural production and money. The average rent per year is about 135 dollars per hectare. As a result of the project work, as well as legal action, 2 million citizens of our nation have issued state acts on private property rights to land in exchange for land rights certificates, pies that now make up more than 42 percent of the total number of citizens who have received such certificates. At the development stage today there are over 1 million 700,000 state acts, or it's 25.8. At the same time, the clear practice of citizens exercising their rights to land shows that there is a need for a more detailed legislative solution to the issues of land-pile allocation in the area and their exchange with a view to ensuring the formation of agricultural land resources necessary for the mechanized processing and maintenance of large-scale agricultural production. Following the mandate of the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and in accordance with paragraph 15 of the Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the Cabinet of Ministers has drafted the bill. It aims to ensure the efficient management of agricultural production through rational use of agricultural land in the exercise by citizens of their rights to land. The bill proposes to establish that land used by agricultural producers should be shaped by a single array of land-pile leases for citizens. In the event that citizens come out of agricultural enterprises for the establishment and maintenance of their own agricultural production and for the transfer of their land-pile to other persons for rent, these citizens are given land-pai in kind on the ground on the basis of this array or, at their request, may be traded on land-pia parts of another land-pia market. With the unevenness of land-pile particles that are exchanged, citizens have a contract to compensate mines for the difference in land-pile cost by an appropriate amount or by doing certain jobs or by providing services to a party that has a land-paid value. Honourable national MPs, the adoption of this bill will allow practical measures to be taken to ensure that citizens exercise their rights to land while preserving, in most cases, the integrity and stability of the land arrays of tenants, will ensure the predictability of agricultural enterprises, which will contribute to the economic growth of reformed agricultural enterprises. This will also greatly reduce the social tension in rural areas when citizens create their own agricultural enterprises or wish to lease land at the conclusion of a contract with another agricultural enterprise. On the basis of this bill, we ask the honourable national MPs to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u66	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up, five minutes. Please point it on the board. The Rahansky People's Deputy, a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine. Is there a Rahansky national MP? National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of Ukrainian Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kalinczuk, Clothing, Ukrainian Agrarian faction. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, we will be considering two bills today: Number 1045 and Second Bill 2026. As you think.? And I personally believe that there are rational seeds there and there; there and there are still some shortcomings to work on. Do you think that it would not be enough for us to unify these two laws in the future and to view it as the only law, because it really is essential? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u68	Thank you for the question raised, Your Honor Vassil Antonovich. I just reported to you a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers as head of the State Committee on Land Resources. But I took a closer look at the bill submitted by the national MP, John Tomic. I want to say the next thing that's in this bill is, in fact, a rational grain. But the honorable Vasil Antonovich, the distinguished national MPs, is your right as you will determine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u69	National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u70	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, you know what you're suggesting, and Hitler probably wouldn't. This is actually the destruction of collective farming. And yesterday, by no chance, Frost on the Conciliation Council said that our village could only raise NATO, which would blow up to the end. But I have a specific question for you. What would happen to the meliorated lands, where one hectare was produced, were considered three, which included all the corresponding costs? Similarly to drying systems. And as this relevant legislative instrument binds itself to the Agricultural Cooperation Act, it's not possible to actually interfere with the laws of the collective. What will happen to the law on SPC, which is still in effect, and no one has changed it? That is, everything is resolved only in general congregations and the decisions of the relevant higher bodies of these labor groups. How is this bill bound? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u71	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Thank you for the questions raised. First of all, everything is decided, not by the general congregations, but by each owner, because he owns his own land, his own property. He determines what he should do, how he should act. But essentially, from the very beginning, what you've asked is a question. The earth is grounded, the earth is dried up, all of these lands, coming out of the Earth Codex that we have accepted with you by this calling, their destiny determined, they are the only mass and they are being processed only because they cannot be separated today. There's a complex, approach. And this is all prescribed in this bill. But the question lies in the next. When an owner of his land, his share of the pie will want to own or transfer to a person, a natural or legal person his land in a lease, just as a draft law, if we adopt it as a law, he will guarantee the right of each owner to dispose of his or her property, and accordingly not in violation of the entire processing mechanism of the landmass. Thank you, Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u72	National Deputy Jemiliev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u73	I'm asking you to pass the word to Deputy Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u74	National deputy of Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u75	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich! Once again, I repeat the banal thesis, which is very well known to you, namely, by adopting the Earth Code in the way it was voted, we divided the Ukrainian peasants into two such large but not equal to the right to land, groups. But I have a different question. Don't you think that some of the positions of that project that you're about to report to us will strengthen the position of those farm managers who, today, by referring to the absence of such a law, do everything they can to ensure that people, let's say, don't move away from them, and then, when they want to do so, they give them the worst of the land? You're saying we'll avoid such a system if we adopt this law. But after all, this decision-making mechanism by most landowners, isn't it to strengthen the position of farm managers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u76	Thank you for the questions raised. Let me answer the first part of your question. We have not stopped our work in accordance with the President's mandate to transfer land to the property of those who want citizens living in the Crimean Autonomous Republic, in fact those who have returned to the Crimean Autonomous Republic today. Today we have this opportunity in most parts of the Crimean Autonomous Republic. And this work is not suspended today, and we're continuing it, and I think you're witnessing how, at the level of the Russians, Ukrainians are also getting corresponding state acts and representatives of the Crimean Tatar region. But you're asking the question in another, I don't want to raise the subject, you're asking the question of overcrowding. But this is a narrowing down of the constitutional rights of citizens, all those who have received the relevant document, whether it's a piece of land or a pie, or whether they've already switched the certificate to a state act. And by the way, I might say again, today we've released about 3 million state acts and there are over 1 million 700,000 in the development phase. This says that during this year, the first half of 2003, we're going to go to the level of 4.5 million issuing state acts. I mean, citizens get government acts, and according to the Constitution, they have the right to own and manage and to use their land. I want to say that this draft law and that law, if adopted, does not narrow down the rights of owners and land and the corresponding certificates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u77	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Your time is up. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations to John Fedorovich Tomic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! What, then, is the need for this bill to be adopted? In January of this year, Ukraine’s new Earth Codex was introduced. All the President's decrees on the farming of agricultural land and the realization of the rights of landowners have become invalid. As a result, a large number of gaps have emerged in the legal regime, making the realization of the right to land more difficult. In this regard, it is imperative that a law be adopted that regulates the acquisition and realization of land - pie rights in a comprehensive manner. Moreover, the Constitution requires that acquisitions of ownership of land be made exclusively in accordance with the law. What are the basic features of the draft Law on the Order of the Decommissioning of Peas in Nature? First. It clearly defines the circle of citizens who have the right to land. This is very important because, in 96-2000, there was a lot of illegal missing from the list of members of the CSOs who were given land rations. In addition, a large number of individuals who have been excluded from the lists have died, and their heirs have no clear legal guidance as to whether they may inherit the land of their parents or other relatives. Finally, in a number of cases, there were baseless individuals who were not entitled to land, pie. Article 1 of the bill clearly defines these individuals. Former members of collective and other agricultural enterprises include pensioners from their number who have received certificates of land rights as established by law. The other one. The heirs of citizens who received land certificates and inherited the land belonging to their parents or other close relatives. These two groups of citizens have, as it were, an undeniable right to land rations. At the same time, a large number of villagers of the former reformed KSPs did not pay attention at the same time to the lists excluded from them, and such citizens only began to demand the granting of land rations when there was a massive distribution of rations in kind, the issuing of State acts on land. Such citizens began to apply to the courts for recognition of land rations rights. And courts tend to satisfy such lawsuits, so they are also entitled in article 1 mentioned above. Citizens evading from alienation zones evicted from the area of unconditional or guaranteed voluntary evictions, as well as citizens residing on their own from areas affected by radioactive pollution who, at the time of evacuation, were evicted or relocated on their own by collective or other agricultural enterprises, as well as pensioners in number, have the right to receive land particles from a new location to work from the land reserve and reserve fund in the size of a member of an agricultural enterprise located in the territory of the relevant council. According to the second draft of the article, it is clear that a list of documents confirms the existence of a person’s right to land. These include a land certificate, an inheritance certificate, a court decision, and a civil-law agreement in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Thus, if a citizen, for example, has a court decision to grant him a land claim, he does not have to obtain a land certificate, he may award his land pie in kind on the basis of a court’s decision. According to the bill, the grounds for allocating the land in kind are to submit a claim by the land-pow owner to the relevant village, rural council, where the land area is located. The bill clearly regulates the distribution of land between landowners. For the distribution of land, the organization produces a project for the organization of territorial particles, a map that shows and numbers all land areas within the rural council that are to be distributed. This project should be posted in a prominent location for the previous introduction of the farmer’s rations to the previous distribution. According to article 10 of the bill, the organization of land distribution among landowners relies on a suitable village, village, or city council for the location of land. How to distribute land is determined by the owner of the rations. However, if they fail to reach agreement in the order of distribution of land, the distribution of land is done by drawing lots. Yet another dangerous situation may arise when in the middle of a single land supply that is leased to the owners is a separate land plot whose owner intends to own, to own his own farm. The bill also takes these questions into account. First, rural, village councils and local executive authorities should contribute to land exchange, which is carried out with the aim of securing a complete land supply that is leased by agricultural enterprises. Secondly, the bill provides for the granting of a number of benefits to such persons, such as the exemption from payment of land taxes for 3 years, as well as the payment of public duties relating to the formation of a land mine contract in notaries. Dear National Deputies! This bill is designed to further regulate land relations so that we do not experience such tragic events as it did in the village of Senkovo Kharkiv. So this bill is considered on the committee, and the committee recommends that it be accepted. We are ready to form a working group for the second reading, and all comments of the government bill are included in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u79	Thank you. Is there a question for John Fedorovich? Please sign in. Please point it on the board. National MP Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u80	National MP Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I beg you to pass the word to the Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u81	National MP of Winsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikolaiovich, honourable national deputies, I regret to use the time to report to a press conference that the criminal case against President Leonid Kuchma of the Kyiv City Court of Appeal has been violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u83	Please unlock the microphone. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Noshchenko, please. On the subject, read the Rules, it's all written in the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u84	Dear John Fedorovich, at present about half of the owners of land - rights certificates have received adequate land in kind. But it's about 15 million. Ha lands are still nothing. You have considered two options in your report today when peasants with certificates of consent are identified in a single array and when conflicts arise. But there's a third point where peasants give up their assigned land. For example, the Mid - Boon district of the Sumal region, where one sand was created, and there was no farm in the village. How do you expect to resolve this conflict in order to deprive peasants of their right to additional assistance in their farming? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. That's pretty clear. This bill takes into account that, in the absence of time, I was unable to present in the report all the articles that the bill takes into account take into account the situation that you are talking about, and it is quite clear that further work can be done on what mechanisms will be needed for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u86	National MP Chubarov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u87	Dear John Fedorovich, in fact, your project claims to be more specific than the government's project. So you're in article 1 among those who have the right to land pies, you're disposing of those who have migrated from the polluted territories, and you say that this law will be passed, so that they have the right to land pie at the level of the members of the colleges. And yet you know the situation on the spot, you know what happened to the ground, you know that the reserve is almost no longer special where the land is fertile, you know, the farms have already figured it out. Please tell me, are you sure this norm will work or have you made such a good gesture to those who have moved from the polluted territories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u88	Thank you. I believe that 42 percent of government acts are issued today, and there's still a lot of certificates in people. Therefore, the issue of settlement of land particles by consent of the parties may occur and, more importantly, not all land reserves are used. [[pears]] And on the other hand, by the consent of both sides, if the land falls under the lines of electricity, whether it's sand or some other land that's smaller. They are of little value, and they can now be regulated in accordance with this law and taken into account the quality of the assessment of land. As for the particular issue that I have been asked and you are other national deputies, just a settlement on Crimea, I think that this issue can be settled in the Final Positions preparations for the second reading on the specificity of privatization, particularly in Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u89	Please, National Deputy Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u90	Communist faction, 161st constituency. I, Ivan Fedorovich, wanted to ask Danilenko a question. But it happened that I was stuck there. Then I have special questions like this. I would like you to give me an explanation. Many have been missed in the villages when people were smoking — teachers and other health workers. For example, there is where the land is distributed, where the water is made, I have, for example, in the Shastkin region in Dobrotovo, and these pies return. Others, too, have made many mistakes. I keep thinking, can we actually make one law that is, well, very suitable for everyone? And I'd like to ask you a question. Maybe we'll talk about it and put it to the peasants, hang out, let them do it in Canada, for example, and then just accept it. Are we no longer able to do so? Can we just tear down the farms, break down the cologne, and make a document short of talent? I'm asking you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. I'm just supporting the construction position, not breaking it down -- that's clear. As for the exact definition of who has the right to land pie. [[you're asking the right question.]] It's the law that defines it. And they also define those who got on the list, but they had no right. And the third question is that the court's decision is the basic basis for allocating a piece of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u92	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u93	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU Ivan Fedorovich, one short question, we're out of the Rules. I have a question for you as to the head of the profile committee on Bill 1045 on an agreement on land exchange in another field. You understand, given the legal ignorance of the people, whether there is any guarantee on the committee that such a treaty would not be another attempt to deceive the owners of the pies. What guarantees does the legislator put here so that this does not happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u94	Thank you very much. Indeed, the question is quite important. Draft Law 2026 provides a separate chapter to answer this question and further stimulates the settlement of these relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u95	Thank you. Question time's up. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please register to discuss this bill. Dear colleagues, don't shout, I know the drill. Please point it on the board. Take it easy. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for the speech. Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. As you know, October 12th all over Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u97	Peter Mikolaiovich, I'm gonna have to turn off the microphone if you don't act on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u98	I will use my right, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u99	Take it easy. Dear colleagues, only on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u100	There was a national tribunal that cited numerous facts throughout Ukraine regarding crimes against specific people, society, and Ukraine as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u101	Turn off the microphone, I'll read the Rules. According to article 3.3.9.1 The speaker should speak only on the matter from which he was given the word. Don't worry, let's talk about the ground. It's just a question. Please address this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I would like to make a statement and report that a press conference has now ended at which the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal Vasilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u103	Break to 12:30 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. We're continuing to discuss the issue -- the draft Law on the Order of Decommissioning in the Nature of Land Particles, Pies and Their Exchange. The people's representative of Chubarov has the floor, please. We agreed on 15 minutes, right, to discuss this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u105	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I won't be original if I say once again from this rostrum about the particular importance of considering and making decisions on any issues related to ownership of t to the ground. It was in this room that the Ukrainian Codex of the Earth was adopted last year. Despite my opposition to private property on earth, however, I opposed the adoption of such an Earth Code, which divided Ukraine’s peasants into two large groups, into unequal groups for the rights of a large group. First. These are members of the Colgs or former colgs, who have received their own pies. And the second group is peasants who weren't members of the kolgos, that is, rural teachers, other doctors. The real situation now in the village is that the further adoption of laws designed to secure private ownership of the land of some, when such a right is not available in others, will only lead to increased tensions among people. So, to me, we need to go back to the previously adopted Earth Code and look at the rules that grant or deny individual rights to the peasants. I would also like to say that if we really want to divide the earth fairly, we need to talk about overcrowding. Yes, indeed, and that's what Honorable Anatoly Stepanovich was talking about, we're talking about this problem in Crimea, but speaking of overcrowding, we're not saying that this action should be for the benefit of either of us. Any sign of it. We're saying that the overcrowding should be like this when every peasant is given a piece of land. And it's specifically about the two versions of the bill that we've been reporting here. In fact, the Tomic national deputy's version is more specific, but, I've been talking about this in my question, I have great doubts about certain norms that they can be implemented. Including, I would like to pay special attention to the chapter on undistributed land. I don't think that there can be undistributed lands forever, there are appropriate rules in the Civil Code. The main thing is that these undistributed lands were then distributed among those who did not receive their rations during the overcrowding. When I finish my speech, I would like to suggest that you, during the vote on Thursday, send both of these projects back to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u106	National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u107	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! The bill that was put forward for consideration today is actually a continuation of the destruction of large-scale production that we had today in Ukraine as progressive. And I think that the beginning of this destruction was laid by Prime Minister Kuchma and now by the President. I'm glad you did. Today to report that the judge of the Kyiv City Court has opened a criminal case against a citizen of Kuchma in 35 articles. It was because the decrees and the decrees of land relations initially ran counter to the Constitution of Ukraine, since according to article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, land relations were determined solely by law. What did Prime Minister Kuchma and then President Kuchma do? Legalized the sale of land on the basis of his decrees, in the meantime threw all men on the sink, destroyed our large-scale production, and now by this law they want to continue and legitimize this proper production. What's going on? That land areas will be the only source of resources, since according to the Land Code and the Law on Agricultural Cooperation, all land relations are decided solely by labour groups and solely by owners, not by appropriate regulations or laws. What's done? I did what I said before, legal fraud, fraud, started with Prime Minister Kuchma. Let's move on. In the second bill proposed? Leading overcrowding, especially to those who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. And remember, dear fellows, what does Melnichenko say on the tapes? President Kuchma took 40 million dollars to repair his office on the fourth floor. I think that the respected black people who need treatment will be given a clear answer after the court starts its work and will be testifying in this court against the citizen of Kuchma, who has contributed the funds that should have gone to the treatment of the black people who were supposed to go to the treatments that should have gone to those disadvantaged children. That's why Judge Vasilenko wisely opened a criminal case against a Kuchma citizen, because we can't cover the clans today. Following the presidency of 98, Prime Minister Kuchma, and then President Kuchma promised that he would be more loyal to corruption in Ukraine. It was thanks to his decrees that all energy-generating companies, the largest wealth in Ukraine, were sold out. Under the patronage of the President today goes the destruction of the municipal sphere, the citizens of Ukraine cannot know what electricity is for today, because the Energy Supervisory Commission is under the patronage of the President, and no one knows what the value of this price is today. That's why I think the court in Ukraine is going to take place, and Kuchma's citizen is going to answer according to current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u108	National MP Mokchan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u109	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and distinguished colleagues, we are sad witnesses to what is happening in Ukraine. You cross some areas and you see the state of the fields. Never, even in postwar times, has there been such a disturbance, a smoldering of terrible things. The ruins are complete! We were convinced that we would give laws that were appropriate, that the owner of the Ukrainian land would become rich, generous, and would send their children to science. What do we have? The pig constitution, defined by John Frank, John James Frank. You remember that story. The absolute injustice of these people, who are now effectively becoming slaves to certain groups of persons in this Parliament. If the directors of the mines are buying thousands of hectares in southern Ukraine, if in eastern Ukraine the same magnets, entrepreneurs are buying huge zones, areas, and they say: we guaranteed ourselves a seat in parliament forever, because these slaves will vote forever for them for the 20 bracelets they give them during the electoral process. What a terrible situation! And when they raped me here, including me, to sign the Earth Code, I said, "No, I won't do that, sir." There is only one, the only value the President wants with his narrow family circle today. You know the spheres of influence, they're already divided in Ukraine. I don't know why we're putting these bills in the hall. Why do we not make the mortgage laws that should be taken care of by Igor Raphailovich today? Where are they? Where do we guarantee that tomorrow those land pies that we're so worried about here will not become the property of Zviagilski, nor will I call others? But they are now in possession of these lands. What they're turning into you've seen. How is the product made and earned by those peasants being realized today? Today they held the grain, said there was no one to implement it, prices were very low, while all the grain was blown through the ports, blown through the railways to make it work today, Catherine Timofievna cared so much for the budget to anticipate the cost. Even if one penny went to the Budget from this? It's a robbery! And that's why I support this position of the Socialist Party and everyone else who says, "You have to put an end to this!" Only one way to stop it is to go back to looking at all the previous standards. This regime will lead to great distress for all of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u110	National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u111	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Mikhailo Milniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Honorary colleagues, members of the factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine's third vocation, have repeatedly warned the people of Ukraine about the consequences of the President's decree on reforming agri-industrial relations. Dear friends, I have worked as the head of the district council in recent years, I know what land is, and I know what relationships on earth are. I felt like my colleagues, what the President's decree is and what crime is against my own people. Because in the country today, such a relationship has taken place when enmity has been sown between brothers and sisters, blood has already been shed. Has Olga Kobilyansky warned about this? Didn't we, the socialists, warn us about the consequences of the President's decree? Yes, the sun came down in Ukraine today, because the whole Ukraine shuddered -- there was a wise man who had committed a criminal case against crimes that were being committed in Ukraine. We are now witnessing disunity in the country, slave labor in the country, and these are all the notorious presidential decrees, decrees of former Prime Minister Leonid Kuchma! We, ladies and gentlemen, are reaping the fruits and the land code, which was adopted under the pressure of the Bank’s 40 votes, but today’s head of the Medvedchuk Administration, who was then the Chief, has violated this sinister earthly code. We say we should call him off immediately and go back to his consideration. Today, in Bukovin, in Chernivec, once upon a time today, cow feeders are already plowing land, no tractors, driving the produce that peasants grow with such slave labor. What about the bills that need to be rejected today, I agree with my colleagues. Look at this: the fourth article of this law is presented, the sixth article! What is wetlands? These are thousands of hectares, hundreds of thousands of hectares, resulting from the fact that nothing is done by the State in the meliorated lands. How can he be empowered today to make such decisions as the distribution of land, while the general congregations have approved the distribution scheme? Today, I congratulate Judge Vasilenko on the fact that a criminal case has been committed, and I welcome the following violation of the country’s head-to-country relations with agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. As for the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote. A draft law establishing minimum wage is being introduced. I'm sorry, there's a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on fixed agricultural tax on pension benefits. The reporter is the first deputy head of the Sorokin Anatoly Polycarpovich Pension Fund. The interview is offered for up to five minutes, answers to questions within five minutes, for a co - reporter for 5 minutes and a corresponding 5 minutes for answers to questions, and 10 minutes for discussion and decision - making. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill, which is proposed for your consideration, provides for the restoration of compensation to enterprises by fixed agricultural tax payers of the Pension Fund for the payment of pension benefits. This is about the cost of pensions, which are assigned to some categories of workers in a timely manner. They're mostly tractor-drivers who are engaged in agricultural production, dowry women, pigs, women who grow tobacco and women who work in agriculture and raise 5 or more children. These pensions are based on article 13 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act: 55 - year - old men, 50 - year - old women. In accordance with this article, companies and organizations with the cost of work should contribute to the Pension Fund a salary that covers the cost of paying these pensions until they reach the age of 5 years only: men up to 60, women up to 55. Thus, in fact, pension payments prior to the establishment of the statutory retirement age should provide for an enterprise at the expense of its own resources. The cost of agriculture was reimbursed to the Pension Fund, starting in 1992, including after the introduction of fixed agricultural taxes. However, economic difficulties caused these costs to be compensated to the extent that they were not fully compensated, and the unremunerated balance continued to rise. This led to the search for ways to influence the debtors. Thus, the Ukrainian Act of February 17, 2000, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance, defines the Fund’s expenditure on the payment of the defined pensions as an object of taxation, refers to all areas of the national economy. This made it possible for the Pension Fund to work with the pension debt as well as with the debt owed to the congregations for compulsory state pension insurance, administrative and financial sanctions. Yes, last year, after the changes were made to the law, the cost incurred in all sectors of the national economy was 97 percent, and in 9 months of the current year, the rate was 86 percent. At the same time, since the Act on "Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance" has been stopped for payers of this fixed tax, automatically after the changes in legislation mentioned above, they have been released and reimbursed for the payment of pension benefits. Thus, the exemption from the payment of benefits to the taxpayers of this tax is in fact not a benefit but a consequence of the legal colossion. As a result, the pension fund’s budget since March 2000 did not reach more than 150 million dollars. The annual losses of the fund amount to nearly 60 million. And that's because the debt to agriculture today is 116 million dollars. Taking into account the above, it is suggested that, without depriving peasants of the right to a special way of taxing a fixed tax, the taxpayers of this tax should be reimbursed for the cost of these pensions as well as for all other businesses. It is worth mentioning that the State is now supporting agricultural producers. There, debt to the Pension Fund was written off for more than 2.3 billion dollars. This cost is now more than the monthly need to finance pensions for all pensioners in Ukraine. A fixed agricultural tax has been introduced, which greatly reduces the tax burden on agricultural producers. In terms of the Pension Fund, this is 5 times less than they paid the Insurance Congregation of the Wages Fund. In 1999-2002, the Pension Fund did not receive nearly 3.5 billion dollars from the introduction of a fixed tax. Now I would like to make a note of the comments made by the committee on the use of the funds that will come from fixed tax payers. It should be noted that there are now more than 5.7 million pensioners living in rural areas. The pension costs to these pensioners in 2001 alone amounted to nearly 6.7 billion dollars. And only 675 million or 10 percent of agricultural producers came from the need. Such pensions can be noted as being paid at the expense of other sectors. And we can't solve the urgent issue that often stands in this session room about increasing the pension, which now amounts to just a little less than 50 percent of the subsistence minimum for non-working citizens. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the payment of benefits is not a tax. On the contrary, it's already the pension fund's spending on financing it. In this regard, we ask for a positive solution and approval of the proposed project in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! Is there a question for the reporter? If so, please sign up. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Terrence, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u115	Dear reporter! Take the budget, please. 10 billion in the budget is budgeted for the power structures and for the services of the President, that's the fourth part of the budget. On the other hand, today the Ukrainian lives one day on a dollar -- that's 5 bucks. It was Europe that lived 80 years ago. That is the situation. So don't you think that this situation can be changed in one way or another by changing or condemning or criminalizing a person who is, as it were, a guarantor of a normal human life, including receiving pensions? So what I'm saying is that it can only be changed after it's not in Ukraine, Kuchma. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that, according to the legislation adopted by the Supreme Council, the only sources of coverage for the need to pay pensions is the deduction from the State Budget Fund. The deduction from the payroll fund is more than 90 percent of the concessions to the State Budget. And that's what's important. In order to pay the normal pensions that our citizens deserve, it is necessary for the national economy to function properly. If we do so, including the adoption of this law, there will be a greater positive outcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u117	National MP Matvienkov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u118	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Anatoly Polycarpovich, I have two questions for you or two. First part of the question. Well, there's no doubt about it. And the Pension Fund has to pay everyone, or so to speak, the Pension Fund will have nothing to take. I have only one question: why, by the time, so to speak, this time has been extended to the time when the law is the time of a single income. A single tax fixed for agriculture ceases to apply on 1 January 2003. What is the point of adopting this bill for exactly a month and a half, that is the need? And more. I would like to say literally one and a half words about what some here have spoken here under the previous law, saying that industrialists have taken over the land. So, for the record, where manufacturers actually took land, they pay wages and 100 percent pay taxes -- unfixed taxes. They preserved the infrastructure, preserved the social sphere and raised the village literally. It's for them to go and see how the people live there today and how they live where they pay a fixed income tax, where they just walk away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u119	Well, first of all, I would like to point out that the act of this law has only been abolished since 2000, and I've called it that. And I'm going to say that the last composition of the Supreme Council was given this law. Then the committee that was working on it was our committee of experts for veterans, pensioners, and a positive decision was made, but the session did not have enough time for its adoption. Now we've reintroduced it. The fixed tax operation is until January 1, 2004. So we hope that at least one year and these last months of this year we can at least get that amount. And I'm going to say that for us and 60 million dollars, and if you're in debt, 150 is the need for a normal area to pay off pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u120	National MP Chubarov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u121	Dear Anatoly Polycarpovich! As for the law that you've just reported to us, I think we're going to support it, but I have a slightly broader question and it's related again to another category of people who need our protection. Don't you think it's a threat to people at all, to the interests of such people is a tendency to rely on businesses for social costs. You know that since 2001, enterprises, including farmers, have made commitments to prosthetics of disabled people who have been given working hours. Before 2001, it was under the authority of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection. Now we've made a separate fund, we're going to put money in there somehow, I don't know where, but at the same time, those who get work hours have to be protruded at the expense of businesses. Is this not a form of, you know, a hidden form of solving people's problems at the expense of the same people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u122	Thank you for asking. You know what counts for working hours, it refers to another fund, a fund from accidents, and it's also predicted to be counted. As for ours, I can say that the pension is a lost opportunity to get a salary, it's made up of a lifetime of work. We're moving with you, if we adopt a new law, from pension insurance to pension insurance. So right over here we have to, no amount of money that's been invested by a man during his period of work, should be lost, he should go with this person and then he should go back as a pension when he can't support himself anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u123	Thank you. National MP Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u124	Volodymyr Singeruk, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear reporter, it is well - known that the disorder in the pension system was introduced in due course by decrees of the very well - known Prime Minister Leonid Kuchma. These decrees, which stopped the indexation, stopped the increase and so on, hit the village the most. Of course, for example, a fixed tax may be helpful. But how is the Pension Fund going to be extorted today from those mazes that Kuchma introduced in his time, and to provide for the normal payment of pensions primarily to peasants, especially those who are over 30-40 years of age? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u125	I would like to give a very brief answer to that question. The average rural pension now amounts to about 123 dollars a month. Yes, it's a small amount, but the average wage for an agricultural worker is only 170. And you have to understand that it's now going through the Pension Fund to redistribute the funds that we get from other sectors in favour of agricultural former pensioners. So the main thing, and again, I repeat, is for us to work out normal national farming. They'll be coming to the Pension Fund, they'll be making pensions. And I'd like to tell you that in just two years of coming, they did increase significantly. And if the need for 1998 was only 900 million dollars a month, now we're paying our pensioners over 1.9 billion dollars a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u126	Yes, thank you, Anatoly Polycarpovich, time is up. Mikola Eutychowievich Melnik has a word for the report. Please, Mikola Eutychyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u127	Mikola Melnik, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen, our deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Taxation, introduced by the President of our Ukraine, register 1192 of 12.06. 00. The bill proposes to release, to refuse to pay for fixed agricultural taxes, the general order of compensation for the expenses of benefits, as now under the Ukrainian Act on Fixed Agricultural Taxes, the stated costs of enterprises are not being compensated. I would like to point out, honourable deputies, our, you see, dear President is very concerned about agricultural pensioners. He forgot that the wages in the village were very low today. What was said today is that 170 carbovans pay a rural worker, that's not true, that's lower wages today than a pensioner. He forgot, our president, when he passed this law, that prices for agricultural production today are low, down by one and a half times against the previous price of grain, for meat, for milk. The cost of grain is very high today, and the cost of implementation is much lower than the cost of grain. In view of this, can we raise the cost of rural work today? Can we then count down to the Pension Fund? Of course, there are no credits to the Pension Fund. In the country today, the social sphere is closed, schools are closed, and children’s crevices are closed. This is what happened in the country today. The adoption of these proposals will have a negative impact on the financial activities of farmers. Why? Since many farmers are no longer working today, there are no farms of those who were, there are no new formations, there is no technology. You can imagine, if we adopt this law today, we will meet our President! Most farms are no longer viable. They have no opportunity to compensate and pay pensions to those who had gone five years earlier. So these people are going to be retired today, without the means to exist. This will increase the tax burden. It should also be noted that such special tax conditions are defined by law until January 1, 2004. Therefore, it is not advisable to change the proper order of action of the law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine notes that the bill's proposals can be properly evaluated after additional information has been provided by the Cabinet of Ministers on the use of the funds that come to the Pension Fund by fixed agricultural tax payers. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Tax. The project submitted to the President of Ukraine is to be rejected. So I would ask all the deputies not to accept or vote on this project. I mean, we, the socialists, welcome the fact that the judge's case of crimes committed by our President is a legitimate one. I think in the light of this, I think the village, if only Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, of his own free will, would come out of this position, I think the village will be able to solve its economic and social issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign in. Please turn on the board. National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u129	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Mikola Eutychiyevich, I have a question for you as Secretary of the Committee on Social Policy. For example, I don't understand why this question came to your committee. Please tell me, do you understand what this is about? How about the cost of paying and delivering pensions, even if it was paid by those who were to receive the pension? And specifically for the transcript, I have a question for you: name these two numbers, please. What amount is paid to the Pension Fund by fixed agricultural tax payers each year? One. How much do they get from the Pension Fund? 2. Two sums, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u130	We're not looking at fixed tax payers today. We're talking about those pensioners who went on the plough five years in advance. These are milkmaids, mechanics, and other workers who are now receiving a pension. We're talking about these categories of pensioners. And Leonid Danilovich Kuchma passed a bill to cancel these benefits to the general retirement. Why is this what you're asking?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u131	Mikola Eutychiyovich, you're just an imprecise proposal from the President. And you're totally falsifying it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u132	Well, how come I fake it? Why do you say that?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u133	The president did not make any proposals to compensate APC workers with benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u134	I'm not saying he brought it. He made a proposal for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Fixed Agricultural Taxes, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine to registration number 1192 from 12.06. In 2000 He put it in that register. Why do you say that?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u135	Please, National Deputy Lukyanenko. Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u136	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction. Please tell me, when Prime Minister Viktor Yushchenko and Vice Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko became Prime Minister, they were paid pensions and salaries that had been accumulated for years. After the Yuschchenk has been removed, we see that pension payments are being broken down, and so on and so forth. What prospects do you think will continue? And is there a way out of the situation that recently consists of pensions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u137	I want to say that the situation in Ukraine today with the payment of pensions is exacerbated by the sharp decline in the wages of farmers. And if that's the case, there's no deduction for the Pension Fund. And if there's no retirement fund, of course, there's a break in pension payments. The situation is that it is related to one another.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u138	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine." Wait a minute, it'll be time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u139	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky district, Lvivščina Dear Mikola Jeftichovich, you are well aware that several generations of Ukrainians have put their health in the agricultural sector, on farms. We know what kind of tractor disease we have in nursing homes. Tell me, please, this concern, this proposal that is, it's very, very revealing, it's really caring that there's a normal pension for these people who have retired before. But do I understand you as a professional in this field that it's just an elementary effort to move the load to local farms that are absolutely incapable of carrying it? So it'll only make things worse. Am I right or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u140	Yeah, you're right. Because today it is translated into farms that no longer exist. Tens of thousands of farms today have ceased to exist, looted technology. Whole fields, whole areas today, are unprocessed. In harmony with these lands, there are still villages and people who live in retirement homes. Who will pay these pensioners if there are no new formations on these lands, they have ceased to exist? So, as a result, today and the committee discussed these issues at their meeting, refused to transfer the burden of retirement to agricultural enterprises, and to leave it in the form it was before this year, until 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u141	National Deputy Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u142	Fucking Communist faction. So, Mikola Eutychiyevich, you know that after the vicious decree of the President of December 1999, agriculture is gradually being destroyed. As an expert today, you rightly say that such a law is impossible to pass. Because, in fact, when we arrive in the Cherkas region, in the villages of Ternopil, in the Zolitani and elsewhere, we see, in fact, that people live worse today, than they would live in Soviet times. The farms are being destroyed, the entire farm is being destroyed. And you need to not just say today that this law cannot be passed, you need to look for both the government and the President to get out of the position they created by that decree in 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u143	I agree with you. And I think there's a government for that today, still alive, let it look. But there's a place to look. We have, let me tell you, sources to look at. I've been talking to the Prime Minister about sources, and they are. But the Cabinet of Ministers is still peeing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u144	Thank you, Mikola Eutychyevich. Time's up. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. The presentation was made: National Deputy Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, followed by national deputy Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The questions raised for discussion are of great importance and are not as clear as they may seem. And that's how many, given this situation, I don't understand how it could have happened that the problem of paying off the pension, and from that point on, the use of the Pension Fund was not addressed to the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. And I believe that this is a problem that must be investigated by this committee. The truth of the Supreme Council and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons of the previous call in February 2002 addressed it. And then the committee decided to support the bill. Why am I talking about this? I would like to take another look at the situation. I'd like to stop speculating about this problem. It's not about eliminating a nursing pension, which, by the time you're 50 years old, donate to the word, the hands are around, and the mechanics, who by the time they're 50 years old, look like a tractor caterpillar. It's about. They've been granted this benefit and they'll get it and they'll be ashamed of who's going to do it. And it's something else, and it's about the fact that the funds allocated by the Pension Fund to these pensions have to be compensated in some way in accordance with current legislation, because it's not entirely right to rely on the Pension Fund's capabilities. Because if there was a printing press at the Pension Fund, that's one situation. And the second. Today, the Pension Fund has no other source of budgeting for the Pension Fund than the calculation of the same technical worker, the same medical worker, the same teacher, the same worker, and so on and so forth. And it turns out that today we're trying to solve the problem of one poor one at the expense of another poor one. So I'm absolutely convinced that this problem needs to be solved, once again, it's a difficult problem, but it needs to be solved either in the way that it's proposed by the bill, or by calculating some part of the state budget to compensate for these costs. This example, we have these mechanisms. And the last thing I'd like to say right now. I can't help but express the satisfaction of finding a courageous man today, who, in his civic position, has made it a professional privilege to open a criminal case with regard to a citizen of Kuchma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u146	Finish up Peter Stepanovich. National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of Ukrainian Agriculture. He will be followed by the national MP, Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u147	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kalinczuk, Clothing, Ukrainian Agrarian faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, surely the very idea of this bill is positive. The adoption of the project will allow for an increase in the income of the Ukrainian Budget Pension Fund and the costs incurred by the Fund for the Payment of Pensions to Agricultural Workers prior to their retirement. But the solution to this question is to put again on the farmers, on our breadwinners. I must say that these sources are unrealistic today. The implementation of the project will lead to a significant increase in tax pressure on agricultural producers who pay fixed agricultural taxes, which will have a destabilizing effect on agricultural production. And organizationally, dear friends, it is extremely difficult to resolve this issue: new owners who are not the successors of previous farms have emerged. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the terms of validity of the law when this bill is adopted are planned from the day it is published. This is contrary to the provisions of section 6 of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Tax System. Accordingly, changes and additions to Ukraine’s tax laws regarding tax changes, congregations, compulsory payments may be made no later than 6 months before the start of the new fiscal year and take effect from the beginning of the new financial year. Thus, even with the adoption of this project as a law, it is possible not to take effect until 1 January 2004. However, it should be recalled that since January 1, 2004, the Law on Fixed Agricultural Tax itself has ceased to be valid, and the amendments to which the bill proposes. This raises doubts as to the appropriateness of adopting the draft law by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u148	People's Deputy Nadrag, People's Choice Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! Of course, the topic that is being discussed today is worthy of its attention and due respect, because today we are talking about that out of the 13 million 800,000 pensioners 5 and a half are those who live in the country, who are pensioners of agricultural activities, and therefore today they are the people that are being discussed today, I will say. In this situation, I am somewhat disturbed by some of you in the room today, the emotional colour of the topic, the subject is one. Respectable colleagues, a well-established farmer who pays in the country today, are the only social payments made by the agricultural producer. Accordingly, the current producer is exempt from basic payments to the Pension Fund. And there's numbers. It's not emotions, it's numbers. In other industries, if the employer pays a total of about 42.5 dollars per employee to the Pension Fund, 9.6 bracelets are paid per employee in the village. Here are the numbers and that's what we're talking about today. Today, the situation is next in line. In fact, pensions are paid to rural pensioners at the expense of the city. You can't ask that question. And I do not want to face these two categories, but, nevertheless, respected colleagues, today the village pays 10 per cent of the amounts that rural pensioners receive today. In terms of figures, average pensioners receive a total pension of 6 billion per year. $700 million, and the village pays 670-680 million to its pensioners. Grieve. That's math. This is the mathematics that affects the size of the pension that is paid in general in the State. In fact, the village is being redistributed as a matter of fact by the city. I don't want to say that we have to go out on our own. I'm not saying there's no problem in the village. But respectable colleagues, 10 per cent of the need is what the village gives itself. Next moment. Reimbursement of concessional pensions. Today, it's not so much about mathematics and the economy as it is about trying to streamline the situation. The price of the question is 60 million bracelets per year. Those 60 million will save the whole village? They're going to give some crazy push for economic development? I don't see it. Last thing I would like to say is, my respectable ones, I am well aware of my measure and our shared responsibility with you, but let us be honest at least in this room: today, on a number of issues, the subject of our debt and pension shortfalls has been raised. Well, my dears, well, at best it can be called forging. I don't have it. Today's problem is how to increase pensions, and that's what we have to work on. And last of all, the explanation that we're going to strangle the payer today by imposing this old fee. No, they will pay from the time of introduction, and they will pay those who are today a farmer. Therefore, I believe and call on you: we must support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. From the Pension Fund, are you told? Mikola Evtichovich Melnik, do you have any? Replica, Mikola Evtichovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u151	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I was taken for granted that I lied a little. But I have this for the President of Ukraine. decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: "In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Tax and I ask you to consider it as urgent. Tell me, please, if we make these changes and we take away the pension benefits of the village, the milkmaid, the tractor driver, then should we also take out the benefits of pensions and miners and others? So I think we understand what this bill is based on. That's why I'd ask you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleague, and this is the head of the committee, I'm just calling your attention: if the reporter reports, he needs to read the law and understand what it's about. Today, the committee spokesman showed that he had not read the law or understood it. I think there's nothing more to comment on. Out of procedure, National Deputy Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, on behalf of two factions: the factions of the Socialist Party and the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc -- I applied to announce a recess for consultations on the agenda. Please announce a recess following the consideration of this law, without starting a consideration of another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs. Yes, indeed, I have received a statement from the BUT faction and the SPE to take a break in agreeing on the issues of order of the day. I'm informing the distinguished national MP that yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we fully agreed on the agenda. In accordance with the Rules, under the Rules for the Motified Appeal of Two or More Authorized Representatives of Registered Deputies, the factions chairing the meeting may announce a recess at the meeting in 30 minutes. [[One minute!]] [[Underlining]] In 30 minutes, I'll call it a two-hour break. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Law on Minimum Wages for 2003. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, please don't interrupt the session. If you have a desire to consult, please. The committee suggests that we take 30 minutes to consider the matter. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u155	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to remind you that I am acting as the author of the bill and of the committee. So I have a 10-minute deadline for this report. I'm asking you to consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u156	Please say 10 minutes, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u157	Dear fellow national MPs. Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, faction of our Ukraine. On behalf of trade unions and trade unions in Ukraine, I introduced a bill on the minimum wage for 2003 supported by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. By giving it to us, we were guided by the following. Article 43 of the Ukrainian Constitution states that each worker is entitled to a salary no less than that defined by law. And the main law that defines the minimum wage is the Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees. Article 17 of this law refers to the minimum wage given to the list of basic State guarantees that cannot be lower, I want to draw attention to this very thing, cannot be lower than the minimum of living. And it's set this size before the state budget approves. This is done in order to ensure that the size of government and local budgets is determined by taking into account the size of the minimum wage. I would like to remind my fellow members of the people, now the living minimum is 365 dollars per working person. The Law, which we consider, proposes setting a minimum wage of 70 percent of the living minimum, or 270 dollars. I'll remind you that for this year, it's 165 dollars per working person. At the same time as the introduction of a new minimum wage, it is necessary to introduce new inter-employment ratios of salaries, wage rates, employees and budget organisations, which will help restore social justice and reflect the real contribution of each employee. I would also like to point out that the government is proposing to keep the minimum wage, or 165 dollars, unchanged for 2003. The trade unions clearly cannot accept such an offer from the following. First. Since the current size of the minimum wage is frozen, the government violates the Constitution and a number of Ukrainian laws and norms. It's different. The government’s position conflicts with the poverty strategy. Let me remind you, we've recently heard a report from the government about the first stage of poverty eradication. And it was called the poverty line, if the total income per person is less than 175 dollars. If the minimum wage of 165 dollars is frozen, almost 5 million people working, I emphasize, working, not to mention everyone else, remain outside the poverty line. Next, honourable colleagues, offering a third. Offering to freeze the minimum wage, such a paradox arises. You know what the government is saying right now, and it's reporting that we're growing production, we're increasing wages. So why is the minimum wage frozen for the first time in 10 years? What is the minimum wage of 165 dollars? After paying taxes, a person’s compulsory insurance premium is left with 86 dollars and 31 coins. The number of products that can be bought for this money provides less than half of the minimum consumption. What to say is that there is a man left for medicine, for furniture, for dishes, for 80 copies per month. So, of course, we cannot accept such an indicator. What is more, what are the sources, because, in fact, you need additional sources to find the costs, increase the minimum wage size and inter-employee salaries? Trade unions, along with the government, have carried out calculations that show that out of each of the wages paid, 43 coins are returned to the budget at the expense of income tax, VAT on goods and services, excise duties. In addition, an increase in minimum wage will significantly reduce the number of people in need of subsidies and other social assistance. These are the sources we offer. But what I'm saying is, dear colleagues, there are three other important sources that we also propose to consider and introduce to this draft law as financial justification. First source. Reduction of tax benefits. I would like to remind you that according to the State Tax Administration, in 2001, 128 thousand legal persons, or 1 in 6 registered taxpayers, were granted benefits. As a result of these benefits, the holdbudget did not get 51.2 billion bracelets. Here's a minimum wage raise reserve. Second source. Again, I refer to official sources of government. Childhood economics. The President's letter to the Supreme Council on internal and external status in 2001 acknowledged that the level of economic Tinning was 34 percent. Because of the non-payment of taxes to the budget, it's not going to get 12 to 13 billion a year. Here is the second source of raising the minimum level of pay and increasing the level of pay of a budget worker. And the third. When you and I analyzed the implementation of the 2001 budget here, a figure was given that 13 percent of the budget, which is more than 7 billion dollars, was used by supervisors to break legislation and all kinds of abuse. This is the third source. Thus, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, after considering the bill, proposes that it be adopted by its first reading, honorary colleagues. So we can raise the minimum level of pay for the least protected population categories and solve the issue of raising the level of pay for budget workers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! There is a question for the reporter. If there is, please sign up. Please record. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u159	Semenyuk. Please pass the word to Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u160	The People's Deputy of Vernigor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u161	Vernigora, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Alexander Mikolaiovich, why are you taking 70 percent of the security? Why not 75? Why not 90? Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u162	Dear Leonide Mikhailovich, thank you very much for this question. In fact, we were on our committee and we were discussing this issue with you. Once again, I want to remind you that, according to current legislation, the Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees of the Constitution, in principle we would need to approve the minimum wage size, which corresponds to 100 percent of the minimum wage. So 365 dollars for this year, and for the next year, the government is serving 386 dollars, or it's going to pass, let's say. But once again, given that there's no money to do it again, we're putting 70 percent in 2003, with a step-by-step approach to 100 percent in 2005. I mean, they came out of financial capacity to, let's say, adopt this law soberingly, not. So there's no reason for speculation that can't be given 100 percent today, because it's going to have to be worth more than 20 billion dollars. Only from these positions, although I understand your question, and you would really have to put the minimum wage in line with the 100 percent minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u163	National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of Ukrainian Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u164	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, the foolish adoption of the law will allow the basic social security in the area of pay to be increased and will contribute to the expansion of the workforce. But I have two such questions. Why is the draft law not in line with article 17 of the Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees? To remind you of what is written in this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u165	I'll remind you if you'll remind me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u166	And the second question is in this regard. Was there any agreement, or was there any agreement with the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u167	Thank you for asking, my dear colleague. In principle, I said in my statement that article 17 of the Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees stipulates that the minimum wage, as it is allocated to the list of basic State guarantees, should be at the minimum of living. I agree with you here. But why would I do that? I already told my colleague Vernigori why. Next. Did it agree with the Ministry of Finance? Dear colleagues, according to the laws of today's non-deputies at all, should have initiated the passing of this law, and the Cabinet of Ministers should have submitted a new minimum wage for approval by the Supreme Council, so that these figures could then be considered when the 2003 budget was formed. The Cabinet didn't do it, like he doesn't do it every year. Moreover, according to the information we have, the Cabinet of Ministers is offering to freeze the minimum wage of 165 dollars. As a national deputy on behalf of the trade unions, with the right of legislative initiative, I have introduced such a bill and I would like you to support it. The Ministry of Finance is still silent. I want to say that this bill has been considered in the Committee on Budgets and in principle the Committee on Budgets supports our position. There are no results of the budget committee so far because they stand in their position: no, we have not been able to increase the minimum wage since 2003. But without increasing it, we see that if today the minimum wage is about 47 percent of the minimum wage. So if we leave 165, it's going to be about 42 percent. What's more, according to the accounts of the Federation of Trades and by the calculations made by the government today, the poverty line -- inflation is rising -- by the year 2000, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be 200, it's going to be 175, it's going to be 175. Even from this point of view, if you go out there, the poverty line for a working person is going to be 200 dollars, so what are the standards that the wage is going to be 165? Let us have a conscience! Even though you would like to put 176 dollars or 200 dollars, the projected poverty line is 200 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u168	People's MP Chelnokov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u169	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Ginsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u170	People's MP Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u171	Dear Alexander Mikhailovich. Communist faction, 161 constituency. I'm not worried at all, for example, about all of Ukraine, about how hard people are living there, but about my particular voters in my town of Konotapi, in the town of Six. And then there's the problem: 132, for example, to pay for utilities, and it's paid, there, if it's part-time, or how much time a teacher has, there's probably no 100. I don't understand why today the state can't make such a decision or a law that there's no such thing as subsidies, but they've given it such a salary that would cover both utilities and solid fuel subsidies and subsidies, there and there, and others, and others that the state will then pay. We would not hold these services that sit on it, and they may be eating up very much of the budget. What is the reason? You can answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u172	That's a very good question, dear colleagues. This is Vassil Georgievich Hara present, he can confirm that our Committee on Social Policy and Work held a round table of these problems. There was an interesting detail: for one thing, the government didn't give us a clear answer as to how many people are receiving benefits. Secondly, how much money is spent on subsidies -- they were called the 7 billion to the 25th. And our committee offered three moments. First of all, we're going to do an audit of these drunks. The second is to raise the minimum wage and the minimum pension rate, and then 80 percent of the taxpayers won't receive these subsidies. And the third point that you're talking about is a very important, targeted payout for those who need these payments, not in this office, which recharges money, but in a particular person. If it falls under the subsidy, give help to scrapped gas, solid fuel, give 15-20 dollars to the pensioner for the passage of the pension. Don’t push that pensioner off the bus, and he won’t be allowed in private at all. But, you know, in murky water, it's better to fish. The committee's proposal for this is, we've written down our decision, we're going to insist on what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, since Alexander Mikolaiovich is both a reporter and a co-reporter, let us continue for another five minutes with the opportunity for questions and answers. National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u174	Vladimir Yavorowski, Jovkovsky district, Lvivščina Dear Mr. Stoyan, don't you think we've been catching up on our own shadow for about 10 years now, trying to set the minimum wage. While we're discussing it, as long as we're supposedly so determined, this minimum wage, we're raising, it's getting ridiculous, pitiful, and it's not a means of life, and it's a means of survival again? In our economy, in the legal economy, we're not talking about shadow today. In the legal economy, about 10 percent of the total cost of the product produced is paid. In European countries, in developed countries it's within 30, more or less. So don't you think that maybe we shouldn't be doing this, so the attraction where we care so much about the people and we raise them for another ten, fifteen minimum wage, but to come on the other, on the real side, to wager for the goods themselves, not 10 percent of the work of human, wages, but much more? And then we will solve this question once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u175	Dear colleague Yavorowski, very fine suggestions and wonderful questions. But as an experienced MP, you know that thanks to the position of our deputies in five years, we've changed the minimum wage from 15 dollars to 165 for this year. So people felt -- almost, but there's movement. No one would do that except us. Regarding what you said, you clearly called the number. Indeed, today’s cost of produce is 11 percent of the wage. In civilized countries, 30 percent. If you pick up and you do that, we could make a decision on the average wage, it would be a normal purchasing ability. But that doesn't contradict each other. The minimum wage is a minimum government guarantee for a working person, below this wage should not be any minimum wage, nor should the rate of the first tariff charge in the budget sphere be any wage in the manufacturing sphere. I mean, we're fixing guarantees, a. We're still doing it. So the next step is, really, we need to change the pay bill and go out to increase the cost of work in the cost of production. Your offer is received and accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u176	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u177	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I have a question about the development of the issue of colleague Yavorowski. You know that according to the decree of the President of Ukraine in 1997, from 15.08. In 2001, there was a need for a gradual approximation of the minimum wage to 60 percent of the average wage per industry. Please tell me, if we vote in favour of this law basically, on which number we can count with you on the committee for second reading, this is my first question so far before the law. And the political question to you as a representative, as a member of the "Our Ukraine" faction: are you yourself, Alexander Mikolaiovich, reporting this law, will you vote for it on Thursday or will you block the work?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u178	Dear colleague Suhi, you really referred to the standard set out in the President's letter -- 60 percent in the coming years of middle school. That is, if you follow this indicator, the minimum wage should be over 300 dollars already. And we say that the minimum wage we attach to the minimum wage not to the average, but to the minimum of living, the minimum that must be guaranteed. Secondly, as to whether I will vote, honourable colleagues, I will vote for myself and call on the faction "Our Ukraine" for all social laws, because politics is one thing and social laws is another. We came here to work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u179	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u180	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Your Honor, it's very nice to hear that you're going to be aging, yes. But please tell me when you get out of the underground: the Ukrainian trade unions to protect the people? When's the end? And other things. Dear Chairman, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please give the floor to a colleague of the national MP, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u181	Please, Hinzburg. You've got 25 minutes left. Not anymore. One second, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u182	Alexander Mikolaiovich, I apologize, and a very short question. Hinzburg, 161 district. That's my question. Can this law protect again and again such complex questions as: we raise wages -- we raise food prices again, food supplies first, bread will grow again, wages will go away. How do you feel about the state’s taking on such a need - for - goods function?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u183	Thank you. I'll give you a quick answer. Trade unions have never been underground. They're the only ones who've passed over 40 social protection laws in the last five years, and it's good that fellow MPs support it. If you have political actions, that is another matter. Trade outside politics, they're on social protection. And if we have to protect social interests, we are willing to take part in political action. At this stage of this period of political action, we were not officially approached by any political party. That's what I'm saying on the record. Next question. My colleague Hinzburg, of course, here's a warning: as soon as the minimum wage goes up -- they're looking at how to raise prices. But prices are not always adequately raised by wage increases. That's why I agree with you. And that's what we've done a long time ago, and we've made it clear that there must be government regulation on the basic foods of the first need that this product basket must contain. I agree with you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u184	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We've got five national deputies. If there's no objection, we'll do it in 15 minutes. And we're going to conclude our consideration of this question. Is there no objection? Please, National Deputy Solomon, followed by the national deputy of David.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u185	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues, there are some social norms that we need to refer to when discussing exactly the issues that we are discussing today. First of all, it is a social norm recognized by the United Nations, some other internationally respected institutions, that is the limit of poverty. The poverty line is getting cash per person in the $1 family per day. 30 days a month is 165 bracelets. What is the limit of poverty? It's when you get that kind of income that gives you the ability to physically exist. This income does not allow you to spend on education, on medicine, on other cultural needs, on housing and so on, and so forth. And what we're discussing with you today is the marginality of underemployment, that's the minimum wage, that's what makes it possible for a person to meet other needs. So we have a very normal second time with you today. Today, in order for our people to develop, in order for them to reproduce their physical spiritual and cultural potential, there is a need to pay such a wage and to set such a limit of underemployment that would allow them to do so. It has already been mentioned that in the wages of so - called civilized products, the percentage of wages in so - called civilized countries is 30 percent. We have only 10 percent of it today. But let's remember those old days. The vast majority of those present in this room seem to know that the price of a product produced in Soviet times was between 40 and 60 percent. So what have we come to as a result of these reforms and social relations in our society, and economic relations, when we have only 10 percent of the value of the product of wages? So that's my conclusion. We have to do everything we can to make the wages a decent share of the product that our people produce, at least 30 percent. And I thank you for your attention, and I hope that we're doing the same thing, and we're going to be dealing with this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u186	The People's Deputy of David, please, the Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! The provision of the constitutional right of citizens to a sufficient standard of living is implemented by the laws of Ukraine, which define basic state social guarantees. The minimum wage is the number of such guarantees. The bill provides for the establishment of a minimum wage of 270 bracelets on 1 January 2003 at 70 percent of the minimum wage for a working person. Considering that the minimum wage as of 1 July of this year is 165 dollars a month, the increase is quite significant. Given the inter-skilled ratios, the salaries of budget workers will increase by 63 percent. In the interest of the project, it is evident that its acceptance will increase the size of the basic social security in the area of pay and contribute to the expansion of the workforce. At the same time, there are doubts as to the reality of financing this measure in terms of budgetary possibilities. Increasing the minimum wage to 270 dollars a month to maintain the employment ratio will only require an additional cost of over 8 billion dollars in the budget. Such an amount cannot be added to the budget. And the proportional reduction of all the other expenses is the realization of the principle of "Take in one to give to the other." Taking into account that expenditure is planned for 63 billion dollars in Ukraine’s draft budget, an increase of 8 billion will result in significant budget distortions due to lower funding for other articles. In addition, the proposed minimum wage is much lower than the minimum wage. In this regard, the project’s position does not meet the requirements of article 17 of the Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees. The increase in wages, the social protection of the population in general can only be resolved if the economy actually increases. According to the UN, 49 percent of the population of Ukraine is outside the poverty line. Unfortunately, this is much more than in Romania or, let's say, Pakistan. Yet, poverty often becomes a satellite, not just of well - educated and qualified people, but of people working in full - time employment. Increasing social protection is not just support for disadvantaged people, it's a complex approach that's focused both on the poor and on relatively well-provided populations. And the efforts of the state to raise living standards must be based on sustained economic growth and the fullest possible use of Ukraine's labour potential. However, economic growth in itself has never solved social challenges. We need to radically change the current part of the aid, which is a painful point in modern social policy, and we have nine types of multiples and four types of disposable benefits. More than 70 percent of the recipients -- one minute -- are fairly secure people. Therefore, the Democratic Initiative MP insists that the final decision on the size of the minimum wage for 2003 should be based on an expert opinion of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the real budgetary opportunities and its security. We offer to abandon the popular steps that are notoriously unrealistic and to set a realistic minimum wage level by carefully studying all possibilities for financing additional costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u188	Thank you. People's MP Kirilenko Vejacheslav, faction of our Ukraine. He will be followed by the People's Deputy of Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u189	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, the minimum wage and the minimum wage are the main social indicators in our country. After, by the way, with great effort, it was possible to cancel the previous indicator -- the value of the low-security limit, which was defined as a non-working person, the minimum cost of living, I don't think, is what the role, as the MPs were counting on when they voted for it. Now. And it's no longer in the first government that the subsistence minimum plays a role in social orientation, i.e. the figures that are confirmed for the subsistence minimum are only real and do not affect direct payments under social assistance laws. The minimum wage indicator that we're talking about right now is closely correlated with the subsistence minimum, and so in this year's budget with both of these figures, there are two interesting stories. The first relates to the fact that the subsistence minimum was first served and then withdrawn. If I'm not mistaken, this official figure from the Cabinet of Ministers is not yet available for the draft budget at all. With the minimum wage, for the first time there is a failure to raise it, that is, the government is in principle in the position that the 165 dollar figure should be saved for the entire year 2003. This will lead to many complications, mainly of a social nature, and will reverse that trend, which has dominated it in previous years, when the minimum wage level was still close to the subsistence minimum. According to Ukrainian legislation and the Constitution, not all payments can be less profitable. Since real economic opportunities do not allow it yet, the government uses a surrogate indicator as a minimum of living security. But once again, in the absence of an increase in wages and a lack of indicators on the overall cost of living for 2003, the situation remains very unclear. So the faction of "Our Ukraine" proposes to support the bill introduced by National Deputy Stoyan, which aims to increase the minimum wage. We believe that this is our responsibility, and this is the continuation of all previous social work in the parliament of past appeals. At the same time, we would like to see from the Cabinet of Ministers a concept that predicts precise indicators of the gradual approximation of the minimum wage to the minimum of living, because now we have a real situation where every year there are some figures that are not previously known to MPs, that society is not familiar with them, and that is all the more, there is no time to discuss them and explore them in a comprehensive way, because both of them and then they are accepted in a fire order. These two proposals will be the basis of the official position of the faction during the vote if we take part in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u190	National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare the national MP, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Well, first of all, about the legality-illegality of trade unions and their attitude towards politics. In all the countries of the world, trade unions and all workers are out of politics as long as state-owned socio-economic policies are in their best interest. And if he doesn't answer, we know what the unions are doing, or the whole population, or all the workers. It was also Solidarity in Poland and now in Spain, in Germany and so on. I'd like to ask you. We were witnesses, and more faithfully, participants in this government Hall. Have we forgotten the order of the day of this government? It made it clear that the fight against poverty. You know how our president gets out of his skin, signing orders to fight poverty, and that's what we're stopping him from doing. How so? He was even on that side of the equator when he was in South Africa, South Africa, what he said. Finally, -- he says -- I've seen that we have to move from the dead point. All the questions that concern the welfare of our state. And so we're with you, listening to his purpose, trying to do it again, and again, we're figuring out who's 60, who's 70, who's more, who's more, who's going to give more than a percentage of the marginality. So let's think about it, if it wasn't called "the limit of undersecurity," let's say "standard"? Well, maybe it could be 70. But you and I are clearly aware that this is the limit below which a person is not able to reproduce his physical condition and cannot exist biologically. Yes, I'm on a committee of social policy with everyone who's been speaking, including the reporter, Alexander Mikolaiovich, and I've been working with him for a very long time. But never once did the Polish trade unions, Alexander Mikolaiovich, as you know, make no other decision than to make the wage equal to the limit of low security. And then. This is our invention, this is the author sitting in our government bed, Vladimir Makarovich Matviychuk. He's the author of the concept of a step-by-step approach to low-security. And this approach to us is essentially a step away from our standard of living, the minimum of living, and it's been haunting us for eight years. So finally, when we realize that there's a constitutional norm, and you and I should not go below one percent of the cost of undersecurity. And the socialist faction in Parliament is proposing this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u192	National Deputy Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Prepare the People's Deputy, Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u193	Dear National Deputies, Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. I signed up just before the show because that's the question I'm having. The people, our voters, the citizens of Ukraine have a problem. They don't have enough money to spend. There's nothing to live for. And who should care? Who? Well, who should have a headache? Something my constituents, people living in my city, in my Ukraine, and it's hard for them to live, who has a headache about it? Because I thought, if this were considered in the Supreme Council, most were present, and under the Supreme Council with posters, "The minimum wage to raise our electorate, our Ukrainian citizens stood the mayors of cities, the heads of district administration, the entire Cabinet of Ministers and everyone else stood and shouted, "vote, we have to raise!" Because we are, we have been appointed to care for the fate of our people. But there's no one here, all of them. And no one really hurts. If there was a person today in the Cabinet of Ministers or at all in the state and said, "I don't know what to do today, but let me raise the minimum wage, I won't come down from this rostrum, I'm very worried about it!".. No! No! It's good, they're good, or they're not gonna take it, and it's even better. Nobody cares! In 1990, 52 million people came to Ukraine, now 42 are left, seven are lost in the world, looking for a better life, and four are in the graves there. I want to say that 82 billion budgets in 1992 were our country, 82 billion. Today we have 8! Where's the rest? 90 percent. That's what I'm talking Where's the rest? Today, 90 percent of enterprises are privatized today, of which only 10 percent are budgeted, 10 percent are budgeted, and the rest are pocketed. And where do you draw up the budget, from which article? Where'd he come from? But that's not the question! I'm in so much pain, I want to say again, who's going to be responsible for this in the state? I don't understand why today. We're going to raise the minimum wage, but who's going to control the price of bread today, why are they on edge today, and tomorrow's going to be 1.50? Is it going to be $5 or $10 worth of oil or is it going to be worth the same amount of oil? Once again, this state must speak for it. I was going to say, and this is probably what I'm going to have to offer: utilities bills, they're going to have to go to pay today to get a person to go after this subsidy, because it's the same thing. Only to sustain people is the State still spending money. Subsidies, solid fuel subsidies, scrapped gas, old-age pensions and savings -- it'll also give people a chance to slip away. I want to tell you, we have an example. We had a Soviet system. In this Soviet system of social problems we have solved the best in the world, no one in the world today can say that they were better. We had the best in the world. We just have to get back to that. We shouldn't have invented the bike, we had it and we have it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u194	Kruglov Mikola Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you for a few more minutes to complete our consideration of this matter. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u195	Kruglov Mikola Petrovich, 130th District, Ukraine. I want to start by saying that I'm willing to have a very large salary for all of us. But what I'd like to say is now that we're considering this law, we're forgetting two problems: economic and legal. If we raise wages today, let's say that with this existing tax law on, profit tax on citizens, let's say, how much is going to go into shadow right now. That's clear. On the other side. [[You'll be able to speak]] On the other hand, when we say that we have to do it at the same time: and the income tax on citizens has to be looked at, then we're faced with a problem that's not earlier than six months, we have to consider, as we say, these two laws together. But there is a problem. I just want to focus on that and say, let's think about these two problems, and we're going to make a balanced decision. Because this can lead to the reduction of working people. Nobody's going to have a minimum wage, let's say, 340. He's going to pay officially 100 and 200 in an envelope. That's clear. Trust me, from the experience I've had working in the IRS.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's finish. We'll listen to Deputy Secretary of State of Minprazi Matthew Vladimir Makarovich for a few minutes. Please, Vladimir Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u197	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill, introduced by national deputy Stoyan, provides for an increase in wages from 165 dollars to 270 dollars, or 1.6 times. I think you're all wondering, first of all, whether the economy can provide such a sharp increase in wages. Since the minimum wage is to be considered from the forecast macro indicators for the following year, and they are already defined, I ask you to pay attention to this thing if these two indicators are to be shown in a row. The real rate of growth in gross domestic product is 4 percent; the wage increase is proposed 1.6 times; the average consumer price index is 107.7 percent; the wage increase is 1.6 times; the profit of the enterprises is 112.2 percent; the wage increase is 1.6 times; the general and special budget resources of the budget are 105.4 percent; the salary increase is 1.6 times. I think even these figures, they show that there's a sharp increase in the Wage Fund that the economy can't provide. The additional cost of the budget, taking into account the additional revenue, should be over 8 billion dollars. The sources of these additional costs, proposed by National Deputy Stoyan, are evenly reducing all budget payments and increasing the share of the Labour Fund to 55-60 percent of GDP, as you understand, cannot be implemented. With regard to budget cuts, I think each of you know what the state of budget funding is for today. As for the increase in GDP to 60 percent, you understand that this bill cannot be guaranteed at all. The second question should be taken into account when considering this bill. No one would mind raising the minimum wage, but we have to answer the question of what might happen if such a sharp increase of 1.6 times the minimum wage would be done without financial resources, both in the budget and in the manufacturing sphere. The answer is either that leads to a pay-off, it's clear, either that inflation is jumping, or it's simply a failure to comply with the law. We already have a bad experience of raising the minimum wage from 140 to 165 dollars from July 1st this year. What have we achieved? The cleaning woman gets 165 bracelets, and a therapist with no category 190 bracelets, when the ratio of pay should be at least 1 to 3. By continuing this policy of raising minimum wages without financial resources, we will only eliminate the principle of motivation in pay. Alexander Mikolaiovich said very well that the legislative initiative of the minimum wage under the Law on Pay for Work only belongs to the Cabinet of Ministers, this is enshrined in the law. So there is a request for you to consider this bill along with the proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers. And the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers is too simple: you would still need all the available financial resources, both in the budget and in the manufacturing sphere, to focus exactly on restoring the ratio of pay. [[in agriculture in August, the average monthly wage was 205]] We ask you, distinguished national MPs, and ask Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan to make a balanced decision on this issue so that it will be directed to preserve the motivation in paying for the work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll finish. You, Volodymyr Makarovich, have been very persuasive, but you should probably not have said a word, and the relevant bill submitted with the appropriate reasoning to the Cabinet of Ministers so that we can consider it. And it's time for us to make sure that we don't have a canopy like this. Dear colleagues! For reasons, please, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u199	Dear fellow national MPs! A very emotional speech by Matthew, who keeps telling us that he can't because he doesn't have any money. Please tell us how to live for 165 dollars when the government, I emphasize, the government, and on the letter of the President a, officially admitted that the poverty line was 175 dollars. Since 2003, there will be 185 poverty lines and 165 workers. So you get out of this, not because there's no money. How much money can you say there's no money here? Then there's nothing to sit in those chairs, and go into the other chairs, put in other people to provide. You say, increasing production, there's big profits, there's coming. Where do you get the money? I'm surprised at my fellow national MPs, I've called the sources, let's just deal with the subsidies, and it's going from 7 billion to 25 billion. Why don't we count what m lardes in the shadow economy, I called it. About the fact that we businessmen have benefits every six of us export and import abroad and are not taxed. Search there! And you've been hanging around here all the time because you have to work hard, and you don't want to go! That's why you, indeed, honorary colleagues, in such an approach, I agree with those who asked the previous question, we will come again: and the scholars will come to the Supreme Council, and the teachers will come, and the miners will come, because you can't throw a man out of misery. That's what we need to get out of here! I'm asking the MPs to consider this now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m0.u200	Thank you. I don't think all charges can be addressed solely to Matthew Vladimir Makarovich. Come on. He is not the head of government and is not even a minister. Dear colleagues! Question completed. As for the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The break is announced by 16 hours.
