ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. People's deputies please register. 373 national deputies registered. Please show by factions. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let me make an announcement. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Musiyaki Viktor Lavrentiovich from the membership of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine". [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Let me make another statement. "To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Potekek Mikhail Alexiyovich, a statement. In connection with my illness, I am unable to participate in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at this time. Card 315 for registration and voting, one copy is in my possession. I'd like to ask you to direct the Council to ensure that the second copy is kept in its possession. "Signature." On the basis of a statement made by the national deputy Potejek Mikhail Alexiyovich, the Office of Computerized Systems of the Supreme Council has prepared a report. Let me announce it to you. "In connection with the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Potekówka Mikhail Alexiyyovich on the second copy of his e-mail card, 315 I would like you to know that National Deputy Potekko Mikhailo Alexiyyovich received two copies of the card: the first copy after the oath was taken on 14 May 2002 and the second copy, according to a personal statement on 28 May. On the morning of his registration, on May 30, with the help of the Council system, his card was registered. Please contact the National Deputies and ask them to return the e-mail card of the 315 People's Deputy to the Secretariat." I appeal to the National Deputies to return card 315 to the Secretariat. Dear National Deputies! We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. I would like to inform you that there has been a break in connection with the need to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Board. During the break, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Board. However, the question that we are considering today regarding the selection of heads and the early deputies of committee heads was practically not discussed because of the lack of desire. In addition, there was a missing representative of the faction "Our Ukraine." Other factions said that without representation from such a large faction, we should not discuss the matter at all. So, honourable national MPs, we need to have a discussion on how we're going to proceed. Please sign up for the discussion on this subject. Let me explain. Let us move on to procedural issues. Platinum, Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Next up is Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u2	Ukrainian national deputy (mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (United States). Your Honor is presiding! Dear National Deputies! Our faction has little, and will have one goal in this matter -- to solve it only in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules. So I suggest that we hold a meeting of the Conciliation Board to consider the matter and then bring it into the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u3	Thank you. National Deputy Sulkovsky, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u4	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 154, Plain region]] Please pass the word to Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u5	Please turn on the microphone of the people's MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u6	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Our Ukraine faction, Victor Yushchenka block, Ukrainian People's Movement. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You refer to the fact that the meeting of the Conciliation Board did not take place, and you are looking for extremes. Because on the second day in a row, you hold meetings of the Conciliation Council, which consists of you and Zinchenko. Officially, no one received an invitation to the negotiations to be held. You think that the combination that you created here, that you're going to continue with the same technology of winning, intercepting, blackmailing, pressure, just to achieve once again the result that's tragic for Ukraine as a whole, that it's normal. Normally, when they sit at the negotiating table, they officially invite faction leaders and have an honest conversation with them. Only such principles exist in Parliamentarianism. What you've offered and what's there on the second day only leads to a dead end. And that is why I propose to launch this round of negotiations officially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u7	Thank you. National MP Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The next is the National Deputy of Samoylik, a faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u8	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Electoral District 187, Herson District]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I think that we all came to this room with only one goal: to make the pre-election promises that we made to our voters and, above all, to the people of Ukraine. I think what's happening today is, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, still on your conscience. Your statement that the four factions' draft decrees have failed to maintain proportionality cannot withstand any criticism, since, under the agreement reached in the working group, the position of the Head of the Supreme Council is likened to 5-7 committees, the deputy to 4-5, the First Deputy to the same. Thus, two factions chose their entire limit, almost 12 committees, and even moved to the semicommittee. And whether the Conciliation Council has been held today or not, there is no way that it will influence the draft of this decision to be discussed. So our faction proposes: first, to give the word to the authors of this project; secondly, to start discussing and thirdly, by voting, whether this project is correct or not. And we'd like to ask the factions to speak for 3-5 minutes more in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u9	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the Samoan national MP, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u10	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u11	Please turn on the microphone of Ukrainian national deputy Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u12	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! You and I gave appropriate political assessments yesterday to the hypocrisy that took place on Tuesday in the Supreme Council. A disgraceful phenomenon, of course, for the Supreme Council. And this undaunted disgrace, which lies in the history of parliamentaryism in Ukraine, I think it will be a long time not only to analyze, but also to study on personnel - who were directors and performers. Therefore, I would like to inform you of the following. Yes, an attempt was made to hold a so-called meeting of the Conjugal Council. But we did not get an answer immediately because today Mr. Litwin violated the Rules and closed the morning meeting, having declared a recess of up to 16 hours, although he was entitled to announce only up to 14 hours. That's a first. Secondly, we have not heard an explanation as to how the President of the Supreme Council of Litwin has served and why the issue of “the message of the President to the Supreme Council” has been excluded from the agenda today. When we consider it, it should have been reported to us today, with respect for the Supreme Council, by Mr. Litwin himself. And question three. I am addressing you, the respected "Eda" and the Social Democrats: you have really been deceived right now, because the proportions that have been discussed during the initial negotiations, which are now called for, are that you must give five committees to the Chairman of the Supreme Council, as Karpov said, to the First Deputy, four committees and three committees to Zinchenko, i.e. 12 committees. So today your problem is another. If you want the Supreme Council to work, you must immediately vote for the package that the opposition has submitted. I do not wish to make a prediction, but I do not envy you, the distinguished representatives of Eda and the Social Democrats, anytime soon. With what eyes will you go to the district to your electorate, especially your co-mandants? I'm addressing you. I hope that you will understand what undaunted disgrace is already upon you, and today I appeal to vote immediately for the package that we have presented to the other factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u13	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues! Let's do this: let's give the word to the representatives of those factions from which we haven't spoken yet, and let's move on to further work. Please turn on the microphone of the National Deputy of Ukraine of Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u14	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency]] Please give the floor to the Turkish deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u15	Please turn on the microphone of the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u16	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear National Deputies! Your Honor is presiding! The first thing that requires our faction from the presiding officer at today's session is to notify the Supreme Council officially when Mr. Kuchma is speaking to us. This is a matter that is in the agenda, and the President has to pay attention to the decision of the Supreme Council, because the Supreme Council has gone to meet him. The other one. It's a speech to the chairman. I'm informing you that according to the Rules you can take a break on your own initiative only if there is a gross violation of discipline that does not allow you to hold a meeting. So if you continue to violate the Rules, for starters we will remove you from the meeting for two hours. And the last. I'm going to the hall. Dear colleagues! Let's not waste time, let's calmly vote on the draft decree on committee allocation. If there are other draft regulations, they can also be put to the vote. I ask the chairman and his deputies to carry out their duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u17	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rabbit, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u18	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 225, Sevastopol]] Please pass the word to Tigipko Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u19	Turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Tihypak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u20	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency of "For the One Ukraine;"]] Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! At the first stage of our negotiations and during the election of the Supreme Council leadership, unfortunately we were unable to agree, unfortunately, that we were unable to resolve the issue by finding compromises and doing so in other ways. But I think that's the way to nowhere, because neither side has a stable majority. This will cause the Supreme Council to lose its designism. I think, and we insist as a faction on this, that we don't have to solve the question now because of the formula: four factions of our supply or two factions of our supply. You see, we're not making our draft decision. We're making an offer to take a break until Tuesday and to continue consultations together, try to find a compromise because there is already a Supreme Council leadership, and try to resolve the issue in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The time allowed for speaking out of the procedure is over. Representatives of all factions spoke. Dear National Deputies! We acted according to a rule that takes five minutes to perform the procedure. Dear National Deputies! I would like to inform you that there were representatives of five factions present at the Conciliation Council except for representatives of the faction "Our Ukraine". There was an official invitation to participate in the Conciliation Council. If necessary, let's do it in writing. Dear National Deputies! There are two suggestions. First sentence: consider the draft decision. And second sentence: take a break to hold appropriate consultations. Dear National Deputies! I would like to say this exclusively for the transcript: although the draft regulation in question is contrary to the Rules, since you insist on its discussion, let us go to the question. Now the national MP Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, has the word for replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u22	The Communist faction. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I am addressing you: how much information can I ask you about the issue of the agenda -- the President's appeal to the Supreme Council? Why are you so disrespectful to us national deputies? This is the first time. Secondly, if you've taken up the duties of Head of the Supreme Council, I'm sorry, I told you at a so-called Conciliation Council meeting, and a certain, let's say, material reward for that. Please carry out your duties. And the last. At the Conciliation Board meeting, we had no discussion about the order of the day among the issues discussed at the Conciliation Council. From the beginning, there were some differences in approaches. And when, I apologize, we started holding meetings, like the President's Administration, we were forced to leave you two factions to have a conversation with each other in an accessible and understandable manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u23	Thank you for the line, Peter Mikolaiovich. A procedural discussion has already taken place. Dear National Deputies! On the basis of your suggestions, and at your insistence, I propose to move on to the question of a draft decree made by representatives of the four factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to determine who will be the reporter of the proposed draft decision. Please. Dear National Deputies! Since reconciliation is now under way, who will be the reporter for the draft decision on the distribution of the positions of heads and the first deputies of committee heads, let's go over the matter again. I ask you to sign up for procedural matters. Light up, please. Turn on the microphone of Ukrainian national deputy Simonek Petar Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u24	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to draw attention to why I, on behalf of the faction, insist on asking the chairman to answer questions about the President's statement or the President's address with us. First, it was the commission of the Presidency of the First Session of the Supreme Council to prepare a draft decree to change the order of the President's address. This project was prepared, and he just got 32 votes. Thus, the amendment did not go into the order of the day, and we had no change in the order of the day. Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the other hand, demonstrates disrespect for the Supreme Council and does not respond to the President’s speech. And secondly, I am now officially telling you, Vladimir Mikhailovich: you have already begun with the President's Administration, threatening individual Communist national MPs, intimidated the Communists, forced them to leave the Communist faction. I warn you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if this shameful practice continues, I will do everything to let the entire world society know that specific people are involved, and the name of those who today intimidate the Communist national MPs. How long is this going to take? You deliberately pull to Tuesday to re-buy votes so you have 226 votes to vote for the committee heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u25	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich, I would only ask you to follow the Rules as well. Spoon, turn on the microphone, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u26	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Dear National Deputies! We have only one constructive way to solve the problem of voting in committee leadership -- to gather the faction leaders at the Conciliation Council meeting, and by listening to each faction's proposals, by consensus to make a decision. And we, all the national MPs, expect the faction leaders to do exactly that kind of coordinated, powerful, normal, constructive work. There is no alternative to the Rules. It is at the Conciliation Council that the quota of each faction should be set, taking into account the number of deputies in this faction, because this corresponds to the principle of proportionality and the rules of the Rules. So the request to all the faction leaders from us, the people's deputies: get together, hold joint meetings of the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u27	Turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Puzakov, a faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u28	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u29	Please, Deputy Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u30	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! That's all that's going on in the hall right now is like talking to some sort of deaf people sitting in the lobby. They don't hear, they don't intend to follow the Rules. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I repeat what I said yesterday: no one gave you the right to interrupt the consideration of the issues that were put into the order of the day's first session before the election of the Supreme Council Committees. To be elected by the Supreme Council Committees. And here's the next question: hearing the President's address with an annual letter to the Supreme Council. So we ask you not to deviate from the already voted agenda and to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u31	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Teryochina, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u32	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 216, Kiev]] Dear National Deputies! Dear Lord Chairman! There's a question for you first. You may not have worked out much in the Rules. According to the Rules, each morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council begins with the distribution of the agenda. Unfortunately, the next day we have no agenda. So I'm just going to give you a heads-up: give the order to have the day-to-day arrangements distributed. The second question. We have not made a decision on the statement by the President of Ukraine. It was in the order of the day's last that was given out. So we need to get back to that question. And third, here's a trailer before you quoted the alleged disproportionate representation of deputies in our Ukraine's proposals. So I quote you in part two of article 4.2. 3 Rules: "Deputy groups are entitled to proportional representation in all bodies of the Supreme Council." [[fractions]] [[coming out of the number of their members]] So I suggest you, Your Honor, make up your terms of reference, we gather a consensual group, and we distribute proportionally to everyone, as is the case with the Rules. And that's where all the opposition in Parliament ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u33	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the Bulba People’s Deputy, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u34	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Mr. Chairman! Dear National Deputies! On the second day, we observe the inability of the newly elected Head of the Supreme Council to hold plenary meetings with unabated compliance with the requirements of the Rules. I propose to prepare a draft ruling on the basis of part two of article 3.8. 7 The decree to remove the Ukrainian national deputy from holding plenary meetings for two plenary days and to require him to study the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during that time. And then we can work effectively, solve the problems that we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u35	Thank you. The distinguished national deputies, the time spent discussing procedural matters, have come to an end. I asked myself who would be the reporter for the draft decision. But, honourable national MPs, according to the Rules, we can put this matter to a vote without discussion. If there's a wish, I'd like to put that question to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I ask you to take your seats and continue your work. We'll finish this consideration and you'll be given all the information you need. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I ask you not to block the work of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, do you insist on voting on the draft ruling that is proposed? Please enable the microphone on the stand to present the draft decision proposed by the four factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u36	Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear Chairman! I am ready to present a project that was submitted to the Supreme Council by three national deputies on behalf of four factions. But given that I do not wish to violate the Rules, as I now report this draft decree, I urge you once again to give an official response to the House of Representatives and to me as the head of the faction on the President’s statement to the Supreme Council each year. Please give me an official answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u37	Ask for the words of the people's deputy Karpov. Turn on the microphone of the Karpov People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u38	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko referred to me, saying that I was talking about five and three committees regarding the Head of the Supreme Council. In that draft decision that we proposed to the working group, it was about the ball, but the working group didn't accept the document. The leaders of the four MP factions blocked his consideration. This is the first time. And secondly, about the President's speech, because that question is constantly being raised. Dear colleagues, I remind you that article 19 of the Constitution states: "The authorities of the State and the authorities of local self-government, their officials are obliged to act only on the basis, within the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine." Article 106, where it comes from the President's address to the people and the Supreme Council, does not regulate this oral address to the Supreme Council or in writing. Thus, the President is not obliged by our decree, since the law on the Rules is not available, but there is only a decree. As a result, we can only act by means of agreements and determine the issue through consultations. Thank you very much. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to block the session. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your place. I ask you not to worry, everything goes according to the Rules and the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, honourable national deputies, to take up your jobs. Please enable the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u40	I'd like to answer to the People's Deputy Karpov. Yes, indeed, the Rules and the Constitution do not foresee whether it is oral or written. We insist on that. If the President's written report is now given, we will read it carefully and move on, we will act in accordance with the order of the day. But there is no such thing. And there's another discrepancy in the Constitution. Article 85 of the Constitution provides for hearing the President’s annual report. And that's what the people's deputy Karpov knows. That's why I asked that I do not violate the Rules and that I do not violate the other people's deputies: I am ready to present now our draft decree on the election of the heads and first deputies of the committee heads, but after at least the chairman's information on, let's say, the fate of this issue is the President's statement. Maybe the President can't speak now for any other reason. Then we'll understand that and we'll consider other questions. Perhaps the President is not in the territory of Ukraine, and he is carrying out other duties. But give an answer to the people's deputies, please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u41	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, you have come to the rostrum to present the draft decree. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich, do not violate the Rules and either present the project or allow other factions to do so. Please do this, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u42	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we are ready to hear a recording of the President's speech. What kind of problems? Maybe there are other questions. Let's get the laser disc over here. We'll listen to the President's speech. What's the problem? [[Applause]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u43	Peter Mikolaiovich, please present the draft ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u44	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please give me an answer. I don't want to argue with you. We don't do theater here. We are national MPs, please respect us, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again. Yesterday, at your commission, the Presidium prepared a draft decision to postpone the matter. You did not vote in favour of this project. The question is practically removed. There were no other draft regulations. In accordance with the Rules, we have moved on to the next issue. And now we're looking at that question. Let us conclude our consideration of the matter, and then let us continue to identify ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u46	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I remind you that there has been a vote in the agenda of the Supreme Council since May 14th. You gave it to us today at a time when you tried to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. In this voting order of the day, the question is clearly stated -- the President's address. The amendment you have tabled does not exactly confirm that the old agenda remains, which was voted on May 14. Then please understand what you're saying!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u47	Peter Mikolaiovich, I've figured out what I'm saying. If you are presenting a draft decision, please do so. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u48	But I'm ready to imagine. But just give an oral answer when the President speaks, and we'll go on in the daytime. Perhaps the President expressed his desire to speak on December 31, 2002. Let him say it, we'll vote and wait for December 31st. Maybe tomorrow. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear comrades, I regard this as a mistreatment of the Supreme Council. Here's what's going on here, Mr. Jedi. You're being bullied today. We're used to it. I'm addressing you again until it's too late, while you can still look into the voters' eyes: get your hands on it, please, and go to your chairman, get in touch with this problem, and let him answer about the agenda. And this is a disgrace to Ukrainian Parliamentarianism. And I think that's the end of the process that we warned about: the privatization of the Supreme Council by the President's Administration, it turned the Supreme Council into the Office of the President's Administration. I congratulate you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to Peter Mikolaiovich. In fact, the draft decision was not submitted. Victor Andryovich, will you present the draft ruling? Please give the floor to the draft ruling report by Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u50	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you. Your Honor is presiding! Dear National Deputies! We have to admit that Parliament is in a political impasse. We should now look at each other in the eye and talk about some of the positions that I think will allow us to open the way for dialogue. Why is this happening? I'm going to say this again because one party wants to ignore the political results of the elections. And such paralysis, dear friends, will accompany us until the position of use of force changes. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I wanted you both as a peer and as a representative of one of the MPs to say, "I'm not going to appear at the Conciliation Council until the MPs who are members of my faction stop the pressure through "hundreds," because of the militia, through the police and so on." [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, you know, obviously what this is about, because you've been through a lot. We want a dialogue. We should have the heart to suffer because of what is happening in Parliament. Have the honor of not being murdered here, fellow members of the nation. The other one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to support the position you've been focusing on by calling a recess at the morning session. We do not politically share what happened around the appointment of the Governing Council. Turned over this page, this score stays, and we're standing with it. Now, in order to normalize Parliament's work, we need to agree on a mechanism for the election of committee leaders. What can be said about this? You correctly read at the morning session that the principle of proportionality should be chosen here. I remember that the factions in the previous consultations represented actually two formulas of proportionality for the distribution between the factions of the governing positions in Parliament: Head of Parliament - 5 points, First Deputy - 4, Deputy - 3. The second one started with seven points and so on. But, dear ones, there are no fundamental differences between them. I'm talking to two factions who have made decisions about the presidency. If you stand on the letter of the Rules, you recognize the principle of proportionality, then we can easily find the axe under the bench. It is proposed that the proposed draft decision be used as a basis for consultation, bearing in mind that each side, including the Presidium, has a number of points with respect to the potential power that is available to each faction. Dear friends, this is a good basis for us to confirm the proportional formula and solve the problems with the personnel assignment that have arisen today. So our proposal is that if there's a desire for two other factions to take these principles as a basis for consultations starting today or tomorrow, please let's make a deal right now, sit at the table and get out of this deadlock. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u51	Honorable National Deputies, according to the Rules, Alexander Aleksandrovich is entitled to a report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u52	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues! I think there's a way out of this stupid thing that's created artificially, perhaps for some other reason. I'm fully attached to what Victor Andriyovich said about the proportional distribution of committees, other officers, of course, among factions. And I want to say that his logic is very strong. Why? I think that in the coming days we will see when, not to blame for the union "For the One Ukraine!" "they will form several factions, and then it will be discovered that the basis for the formation of the presidency, which was the basis for the nomination of candidates for the headship and other positions, will be destroyed. [[And you're getting ready for it, I know.]] So the base is going to be destroyed literally in a few days. And we want to work on a permanent basis and for the future. So given the principle of the distribution on the proportional principles referred to by Viktor Andriyovich, either in the first or second versions, it will be found that your two factions are already responsible for the four factions of at least one committee. It's a procedure, so to speak. And that's why there's a reason. If you have any doubts about the personnel, the candidates for head positions or the first deputies, please let's all do it, we can even do it without the Head, let's deal with this situation, let's work things out, and we'll deal with these issues in an elementary way. We shouldn't have given it up for the third day. That's the first thing. And the second, mentioned by Peter Mikolaiovich, was about what should be done without breaking the Rules in order of the day. What is it? Look, now those who listen to us, if the broadcast goes on, think, "What are they doing out there? The elemental thing is one question being considered or another." But this has a precedent -- order that was produced in the process of many years and in the world -- of long-standing parliamentary practice. To take this moment off, just do the basic thing. We need the Head to agree with the President on the date of the speech in his role as an advocate of the honor of Parliament — and this is his duty. Article 85 of the Constitution speaks of Parliament’s right to hear reports from the President. And you can't listen to them with your eyes, you have to listen to the President's intelligent things. And if that's true, then we have the ability to make an assessment, because that message is about the prospects for the state and also on the way to Europe. In any case, this has been widely advertised in the media. And if we don't, if we don't call it a date and we don't vote on the transfer of this issue to a specific date or even a procedural one, after some stage of Parliament's work, then at times some citizen might have an incredible idea that the President is afraid to go to the Supreme Council. And to prevent that from happening, I think Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek's proposal on this is extremely precise, and we could, by voting one question, spend three minutes right now, get to the next one, decide it in 15 minutes, not spend three days on fruitless discussions. We must respect ourselves, the Rules, as a whole of Parliament. Respect, including the President, who is the guarantor of the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, will there be another report? The rule does not provide for a discussion of this matter. In accordance with the procedure, we can give the floor to two deputies who are in favour and two deputies who are opposed and move on to the vote of the draft decision. I'm asking you to sign up. Two-for-two-again. Please record. Please give me a name. Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Are you in favour or against? Please turn on the microphone of Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u54	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Julia Timoshenko's block. Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u55	Turn on the microphone of the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address the representatives of the Jeda block directly. And the Social Democrats. [[United]] You've chosen the presidency. If you want the Supreme Council to work effectively, there must be a balance of influence in the Supreme Council. The only right decision is to vote on the proposed draft decision, and in your interest to support it. Otherwise you can vote on your draft decision, and you've demonstrated that you have 226 votes for it. Please, if you want the committees to have the same situation as they do in the Supreme Council. And this completely paralyses the activity of the Ukrainian Parliament. That's why I'm going to the Hall: let's vote for this draft decree and unlock the activity of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u57	Thank you. National MP Rudzkowski. Turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Rudzkowski. Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u58	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now given a draft decree that provides for security in the Supreme Council following the usurpation of the leadership of the Supreme Council by the factions "The One Ukraine" and the SDPU(o) balance. We're going to get out of the deadlock that we're in right now, if we vote effectively, we're going to get 226 votes. I'm turning to the faction "The One Ukraine": vote in favour of this draft decision, and let's move on. If we don't, it's up to you and the other leaders of the Supreme Council that the President's Administration is responsible for the fact that the Supreme Council is deadlocked today. I think that the President's Administration is deliberately breaking up the work of the Supreme Council today to show that the MPs are incompetent, that the opposition seems to be unwilling to work constructively. We want to work constructively, but we don't want a party in our country that gets 12 percent of the votes in the elections to keep everything, to put people in jail for nothing, just because they have opinions, the people's MPs are deprived of their rights. We believe that a coup is taking place in the Supreme Council. The only Ukraine and the President take power in the state, take power in the Supreme Council. People need to know about this. The Governing Body of the Supreme Council helps the President to do so. You want to take power on the committees, have a majority in the Presidency of the Supreme Council, and not include the issue of the President's impeachment before the Supreme Council. That's what the Ukrainians need to know. I urge you, honourable national MPs, the faction of "The One Ukraine" to support our draft decision and move on. You can block the process in the Supreme Council. We'll never vote for your bills if you don't listen to us. Four factions will stop working. We will prepare our bills and force them to vote only for them. You must be reasonable. All of them were chosen by the people. We must act in the interests of the people and the money we receive in the Supreme Council, work, not waste time just for breaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u59	Thank you. Now we have to hear two speeches from those who oppose. National Deputy Masters, do you mind? He's in. Then the National Deputy of the Kings, the faction of Ukraine. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u60	The distinguished national deputy of the Gmir, after the King, you will be given the word, and you will have to keep the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u61	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 40, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] Please give the floor to the National Deputy Tihypka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u62	Turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Tihypak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the very principle that we have been able to agree on today is fine with us. But I think we should take a break by Tuesday and discuss specific proposals for committee leaders personally. You may have to make arrangements for certain personnel. So I don't think we can vote in favour of such a draft decision right now. We need to talk together, not four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u64	Thank you. National deputy of the gmir, are you in favour or against? Turn on the microphone of the people's MP, Humiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u65	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Vladimir Mihajlovich, first of all, I object to the fact that the person who sits here in the Presidium decides for me without asking me what I want to say. I wish it weren't for that anymore. I'd like you to publicly apologize to me for this. I am opposed to allowing the person sitting in the Presidium to violate the Rules of the Supreme Council in a harsh manner. Excuse me, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I'm worried about Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. I'm looking, and I'm thinking maybe he's somewhere in Foros? Why don't you insist on telling me when the President will address the country's legislative body? I don't understand. Now it's on the merits. Vladimir Mihajlovich, think for yourself if we don't vote on this draft order, then what will it be, who will be referred to by the President, who will he deny if you take the committees? That's why I think it's in your best interest to vote on this draft order and put points above "and." And, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, let's follow the rules of the game, then everything will be fine. There was such a wonderful Brazilian football player, Wawa, he always played by the rules, and he always killed beautifully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard two pro and two against. I ask you to prepare for the vote. We'll vote on the draft document as a basis. Please make up your mind. Turn on the "Race" system. "For" - 202. Please explain the factions. Since the decision is not made, are there honorable national MPs who are willing to step out of the procedure? Turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Tihypak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u67	It's the only Ukrainian faction. I have an offer, Your Honor Mr. Head, to gather the Conciliation Council now and to arrange a recess until Tuesday and to hold consultations within six factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u68	Thank you. For reasons of vote, there is a national MP, Mokchan. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You've all witnessed that these pauses that arise are used by the only political force to conquer, get, as they say, and reassemble their lava. That's why I'm proposing a break not until Tuesday, but tomorrow. And today we have to work productively. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we've already learned from the previous tour -- the formation of the Presidium, that the pause was used only to kill, catch, put on your knees. Therefore, a break can only be announced until tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u70	Thank you. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u71	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear fellow national MPs! I want to speak out on the basis of the vote. The "One Ukraine" faction did not vote in favour of this project. And, you know, if those words that were spoken today on the basis of transparency, justice and usurpation of power by the One Ukraine faction were sincere and honest, then, obviously, by 28 May, what our opponents were doing wouldn't have happened was four draft regulations according to which the 180-person faction had no representation. Why didn't you say something about wanting to usurp power? You failed, you left each other over and over again, you lied to each other, and now in the same thing that you failed, you accuse those who won 226 votes. Let us be honest and let us act, indeed, according to the Supreme Council’s Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u72	Thank you. For reasons of vote, Simonenko has the floor. Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Simonenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u73	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! With regard to the methods in which 226 votes were received, I think that everyone, even the one who is now agitating to admit it, understands everything. But I want to address you again, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Perhaps you will answer us when the President speaks to the Supreme Council? I'm tired of asking you the same question on behalf of the faction. Please find an opportunity, come out, call the President, and he will respond when he can come here or write to us on a protocol. And that question will be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u74	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. I will definitely do so. I'd just like to say because you insist on asking that question, that you're meeting the President more often than I am, and you've had the opportunity to do so. [[Hall cheers, applause]] Since the name has been given, please turn on the microphone by Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u75	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Once again, I appeal to you as President in this case and as a witness to those conversations with the President, to keep you from going to such things. The issues before the Supreme Council were discussed. And today you speak on behalf of the Supreme Council that I had no right to ask that question. [[You are the Head of the Supreme Council]] I now ask you this question as your presiding officer. Would you please go call the President, not torture the Supreme Council, not tomite in anticipation, because we don't know, maybe as a result of this coup in the Supreme Council something has happened to the President?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u76	Peter Mikolaiovich, you're good, right? Thank you. It's a motive. Please turn on the microphone of the Luzenka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u77	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! You know me as the peace deputy, and since I'm used to the megaphone, I haven't been able to press the button. The computer showed that my button was not working. I would ask, in view of my peace-lovingness, to vote on this issue once again so that I can exercise my constitutional right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u78	For reasons of vote, the national deputy of Yavorowski has the floor. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u79	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I, for the first time since the election, would like to welcome you with a victory. I'm really, really glad that the President has managed to assign you to this position, he trusts you, I'm very, very proud of it. On the other hand, I'm a little concerned that Zayeda really gave away the best, the smartest, the most tolerant, the wisest in the presidency, but her overall intellectual level is a little bit lower, I think. I mean, I'm in the same trouble as Lucenka. Here I am sitting in front of you, pressing the button, but my voice is not counted. That's why I think it would be wise to vote, all the more so that you're afraid of "Zedi" is absolutely nothing, because you have 226 votes in your pocket. What are you afraid of? If I were you, I'd say, "vote, boys, how much you want and how much you can do." But it's very normal. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, another. Don't you realize something's going on? Why don't you answer those questions? The Supreme Council wants to listen to the President. It's very normal. I've heard from the President once before, read this Melnick girl, and I want to hear something normal from the President's mouth. So let's vote now. And give an answer when the President can meet with the National Deputies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u80	I thank the distinguished national deputy Yavorowski for his kind and warm words. I want to say that we could put many times to the vote, but there is a Rules. More than that, they re-elected the People’s Deputy’s Card. Please, the reason for the vote is Mishur. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u81	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Head of the Counting Commission. Because there were two statements here that the card didn't work, and one statement that the card didn't work, I think, is the reason for the re-voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u82	Turn on the microphone of the Blackyak People's Deputy. For reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u83	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear National Deputies! Of course, it's too bad the President didn't come forward with the message. We all want the President to send us, and he doesn't come. [[B in m in s a l in]] But I don't think we need to make a problem out of this and over-dramaticize the situation. Of course, if the President had spoken, he would probably have consolidated this hall with his speech, and I'm sorry the President didn't come forward and knocked us down. We worked very hard, and suddenly, the agenda, there was one question, "The President's performance," and we got off track here, and the breaks got a little bit shorter than they were before. All of this would be funny if it weren't so sad. I'll tell you that there hasn't been such a rotten situation in Parliament in years of independence. Parliament's practically split in half, 226 votes is not the majority, it's the quasi-majority. And I don't think we're ever going to be able to get that many votes again, is the only time we've ever chosen the head of the Supreme Council and the deputies. The work of the Supreme Council is practically disorganized, and we are all responsible. All of you! And I feel a personal responsibility. So let's look for a way out. Today the head of our faction, Victor Yushchenko, has offered to evaluate all these positions in the ballrooms, to take these points away from those who sat at the table of the bureau, and to divide the positions of committee heads and committee heads proportionally. [[Heads, Deputys, Heads of Committees]] And then, I think we'll find a way out of this situation. But right now, since MPs insist that the cards don't work, we need to put this to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u84	I thank you for your constructive approach. For reasons of vote, there is a national MP, Kirilenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u85	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's constituency "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I could speak in a sarcastic tone that is characteristic of my colleagues' speeches, but I would like to address you seriously. First. It seems to me that today is constantly approaching the Supreme Council to quickly vote on the issue of mistrust to the Head of the Supreme Council, as well as to the First Deputy and simply to the Deputy. 150 signatures are already being collected, and it is likely that this issue will soon be reintroduced into the agenda, which will certainly not add political stability to our country. The other one. I think you should demonstrate that you are not the representative here of the President who follows his direct instructions, but the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It seems to me that this political crisis in Parliament is evidence that the largest faction that Ukraine is so far the only one is lacking in public political position. We see this public political position in the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, in the JCC, in the Viktor Yushchenka bloc, whose leader has just outlined a public position on the distribution of committees, using open political reasoning. We see that there are almost two people from "the only Ukraine" who are trying to help you figure it out in the Rules. But this does not solve the situation politically. If you have as a leader a faction put on the presidency a public position on the matter of committee distribution, you have to make a statement. [[is meant by the faction "The One Ukraine"]] I have a question about that. Does this political position provide for the distribution of committees within two factions, and you just endure the pause that Tihypco insists on, by Tuesday by 10 a.m., and your democracy ends there? Do you see any proportional principle and opposition in the distribution of committees, above all, Victor Yushchenk’s block, Timoshenko’s block, and the SPI? If so, what state do you see for today, 17 hours 15 minutes, this proportion, which committees are you willing to talk about as key to opposition? It seems to me that if you don't speak now about this public political position of the "One Ukraine" faction, we won't be able to consider you to be such a representative of the negotiating process that expresses the position of the faction, which is the largest in Parliament. You're just going to take a break to get 226 votes and divide the committees between two factions, which is going to be the final supremacy of power in Parliament and the complete non-representation of the results of the March 31st elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I want to say that from the faction, Tihypco has made a clear statement: there will be a Conciliation Council, where there will be a transparent, democratic debate on all issues, and on the course of negotiations, the agreed positions will be promptly informed by national MPs, journalists, the whole public. For reasons of vote, there is a national MP, Billorus. Please turn on the microphone. Then we're going to do a performance from the faction of the SDR and we're going to end it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u87	Mr. Chairman! Dear National Deputies! There's a terrible, invisible procedure from Tuesday, and we're forced to do nothing but sabotage. Unprecedented Facts! One statement with the message of the guarantor of the Constitution was transmitted by letter. On another occasion, he did not show up. The question of the date of his speech is not resolved. I think today we see the tactics of stalling, the tactics of delay, the tactics of breaking all norms. What problems can be discussed when proportions are sustained in favor of two factions? I propose that in view of the fact that some national MPs have not had a card and that the Council system is suspected of voting again, and that we move on to the question of the President's date of address in the Supreme Council, as provided for in the Constitution. Dear Chairman! I've been raising my hand since Tuesday, but you've obviously got the political eye of the central battle. You only see the center and some other angles. If you ignore our faction and me personally, as a national MP, I promise to express my personal mistrust to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u88	Thank you. Who will be speaking from the Social Democratic Party? [[united]] Please turn on the microphone of the Medvedchuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u89	Ukrainian national deputy (mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The faction of the Social Democratic Party. Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! First. Talking about how the cards didn't work out, we don't hear the first year here, and I don't think we need to pay attention to that. Surprisingly, some cards do not work, and the cards of those MPs who are not in the room at all work even after the announcements are made. This should therefore end and end the debate over the vote on the draft decision that failed. This confirmed once again the need to reach agreements and resolve the issue as described and regulated by the Rules. The other one. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You now have the opportunity to verify the public statements of individual faction leaders that they agree to consult and decide on the distribution of the positions of committee heads and the first substitutes for a proportional system. So they said from the rostrum. But reporting from the rostrum is one thing when there is a press on the third floor rather than appearing at the Conciliation Council. So I'm asking you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to announce now the meeting of the Conciliation Council, to invite all six factions to agree and to continue our consideration of the election of committee heads and first interlocutors, and to check how the public position differs from the position of any faction in agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We actually have two suggestions. The first proposal is to take a break until Tuesday and hold as broad, transparent, open-ended consultations at the Conciliation Council meeting so that a draft decision agreed by you, honourable national deputies, can be tabled for consideration on Tuesday. The second offer is to take a break by 10 a.m. tomorrow. In accordance with the order of these proposals, I will put them to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. A vote is put to the motion to announce a recess by Tuesday at 10 a.m. Please turn on the "Race" system. People's deputies, please identify yourself. "To" - 198. By factions, please show me. Dear National Deputies! The second sentence is to take a break until Friday until 10 a.m. Just a minute, please. For reasons of vote. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Bespalogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u91	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 223, Kiev]] "Our Ukraine." Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! There's this position: if a soldier doesn't know how to act in the army, he has to act on the statute. If the Head of the Supreme Council does not know how to act, he must act in accordance with the Rules. If we did not vote in favour of moving the meeting to Tuesday, the session will automatically continue, we have not made any decisions. If the sitting is suspended today, it will automatically resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. And with good will in the 16 hours remaining, arrangements can certainly be reached. Enough to announce baseless breaks. On the first day, we held a vote until the middle of the night. We are willing to work as long as it takes to properly form the leadership of the Supreme Council committees, as was suggested by our leader Victor Yushchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u92	Thank you. People's Deputy Robber. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u93	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 222, Kiev]] Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! You deliberately do not put the vote to the vote, although there was such a proposal from many MPs who motivated it. You abuse your nonexistent right to take breaks. If you need to take a break, ask the two factions to make a huge pile of documents asking them to take a break. And you would get out of that pile and read it. Only in this case can you announce a break. I can vote for the adjournment of Tuesday's session on the condition that you take two days to study the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u94	Thank you. From the procedure, the people’s deputy, Mishur, has the floor. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u95	The Communist faction, the head of the Counting Commission. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The hall was filled with comments that the card had not worked. I would like to put to the vote this proposal: to give a mandate to the Counting Commission right now to gather and find out why the card doesn't work, why the MP card doesn't work, which is not in the room. You'll wait for us, then we'll put a proposal into the room for this, because according to the Rules for the election of the Committees, the Counting Commission sets up order, place of voting, method of voting and so on. Do not deprive us of that right. Put it to the vote. They're backing the Counting Commission up, okay. They don't support it. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u96	Thank you. I think that's a good offer. We'll all ask the Counting Commission to carry out the appropriate work and to report on the results of this work tomorrow. Do we need to vote for this proposal? Dear National Deputies! The Counting Commission can gather, consider, and inform the Supreme Council. If you insist, we can put this question to a vote. Dear National Deputies! Who is it that the Supreme Council is tasked with the Counting Commission to analyse the work of the Council system and to remove the complaints that individual cards don't work, but the cards of those people who are not in the hall, please identify. Turn on the "Race" system, please. "To" - 164. Let's see the factions. Dear National Deputies! We don't have any more draft documents from the selection of heads and first deputies of committee heads. It's a motive. Please turn on the microphone of the Semenyuk People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u97	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. Dear fellow national MPs! First of all, I want to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. As Head of the Supreme Council, you should organize the work of the Supreme Council. You announced the consultations four times, and you never told me how your consultations ended. No draft decision has been made. If you've consulted with Medvedchuk, give me anything. You already have 226 votes, there's a president, there's a father, there's a blessing. If there's nothing to do, you go away for a period of time, we'll conduct the relevant other organs, we'll select a temporary regular commission, and we'll work. Besides, I want to say, if you haven't consulted the President, run and cry in the evening, he'll tell you, or some other decision-making, but you don't have to destabilize Parliament's work. You, as Head of the Supreme Council, should clearly say what you have done after these consultations, why don't you make any draft rulings, and why are you so inactive today, you personally and the presidency of the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u98	Thank you. I, the honourable national deputies, after every proposal to meet the Conciliation Council and work, as stipulated by the Rules, informed you that the Conciliation Council was not to be convened on behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we should do a proper job in factions. For reasons of vote, there is a national deputy, Grigorovitch. Please turn on the microphone. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u99	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! As a scientist, you certainly know the brilliant phrase of Taleran, "There is someone stronger than Napoleon and his generals, than the monarch and his courtiers. This someone is called public opinion." This was said in the 19th century. Do we think that in the 21st century Napoleons and monarchs are stronger, and public opinion is weaker? On the contrary. In view of this, I propose that tomorrow, by continuing the work of the Supreme Council, we answer such questions. First. No reprisals against members of other factions who did not form a presidency. The other one. Yes, a proportional basis for committee management. And finally, the last day of the President's speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u100	Thank you. For reasons of vote, the People’s Deputy has the floor. Please turn on the microphone. And we will conclude, honourable national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u101	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear National Deputies! I refer from our faction to the members of the faction "Our Ukraine", the socialist and Communist factions, and I ask you not to continue to participate in this clown, do not take part in this mess! You said yourself you didn't have a card. All we have to do now is vote. Why are you involved in this mess? I don't understand. The other one. Dear Chairman! Why this circus? You have been asked to vote for half an hour because your card has not worked. Why did you turn yourself into a clown and make a clown in the Supreme Council? And the last. There is no Conciliation Council! You need to know this as a presiding officer, studying the Rules perfectly. The Conciliation Council as an organ will be when the committee heads are in place. So far, only faction leaders exist. Our faction demands that we stop any discussion and immediately put to the vote what the faction "Ukrainian" and the faction of the Socialists require.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m1.u102	Thank you. I would like to tell the distinguished national deputy to the Head that, according to the Rules, the Conciliation Council is and is in operation. And in its sessions, committee heads take part, but they don't vote for decisions. Dear National Deputies! We've finished the discussion, all of it! Dear National Deputies! Since we don't have any other draft regulations, we need to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Board to produce an acceptable document and bring it to your attention. I ask the leaders of the factions, members of the Conciliation Council, to meet in the negotiating room at 6 p.m. to do the work. In this regard, we will continue our work tomorrow at 10 a.m. The meeting shall be closed.
