ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Please take your jobs and prepare for registration. Turn the system on. People's deputies please register. [[10:04:21]] Registered -363 Registered in the 363 National Deputies Hall. The factions, please. Thank you. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of Ukraine’s national deputies, Budzigan Philip Josephovich, Vladimir Leontiyovich, and Pejota Vladimir Yuriovich. Let us greet them with this day, and wish them success and health. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with the Rules today, are taking decisions by the Supreme Council. You have a list of issues to decide from. To be included in the agenda of today's session, it is proposed to introduce a draft decree on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Medvedczuk, as well as a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments, governments and the public authorities of the member states of the European Union. Reported the chairman of the European Integration Committee, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, will there be any objections? Please vote in favour of including these issues in the order of today’s session. Let's vote separately if there is. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of including in the agenda of the daily draft is the decision to terminate the mandate of the National Deputy of Ukraine Medvedchuk. Please vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda. [[10:06:56]] For 333 Decision taken, 3333. Thank you. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments, governments and the public of the member states of the European Union. Dear folk colleagues, given the importance of this issue, please support me. Please vote. [[10:07:35]] For 294 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Honourable National Deputies, since there is a decision of the Conciliation Board, are also invited to include in the agenda of today's session a draft decision of the Supreme Council on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor the repayment of the debt of investors of natural persons and other creditors of the commercial commercial agro-industry bank "Ukraine" and to study the legality of the privatisation of the corporate commercial social development bank "Ukristok", the commercial industrial and investment bank "Prominestbank". The draft decree is given to you. From the procedure? Please turn on the microphone of the national MP, Mr. Aleksandra Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u2	Honourable deputies, in accordance with the Rules, if the commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council has not completed the question and the MPs have not received the answer, and the community has not received the answer to the questions raised there, and the problem has not been clarified, then the session of the new call for the exercise will continue the work of the commission. Therefore, the question must now be asked in this order: the temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council, where to anticipate and restore the commission's activities, and the restoration of the arms trade commission, and the restoration of the work of the commission that analyses the situation of the murder of journalist Gongadze. I think this will be in full compliance with the Rules and will answer the questions that today are in society.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u3	People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u4	[[Peter Poshenko, Solidarity Group, "Our Ukraine" faction]] Dear colleagues, the point is, in the text of the commission of inquiry for the Bank of Ukraine, it's about creation, not about continuation of work. According to the Rules, we have no discussion as to whether we are creating a temporary commission of inquiry. In addition, there is a decision of the Conciliation Board to include in the agenda for this week the issue of the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry. There is no Supreme Council decision on other committees of the Conciliation Board. So I have a request for a verdict: to proceed with the decision of the Conciliation Council and to put to the vote the day-to-day question of creation, not to continue the work of the interim commission of inquiry on the Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft ruling that we have discussed before is now in the vote. Please make up your mind. Please turn the system on. Please vote. [[10:11:24]] For-182 The decision is not taken. The factions. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day of our work. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to follow the rules clearly. We follow the rules. Draft Decision on the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fourth Call. Allow me to inform you about this, dear folk colleagues. Since the opening of the first session, more than 200 draft laws have been submitted to the Supreme Council. Along with the 118 bills that have passed from the last reference to committee work, there are almost 350 draft laws. Meanwhile, the distinguished national deputies, according to our calendar plan for the first session to be completed, that is, by July 12, there were 10 plenary days left. Considering that the people's deputies are working in the districts next week, we can only use inter-plenary sessions to work on the bill committees to bring them to Parliament. All of this regulates the quantification of the order of the day, so we have to include so many bills that we can actually consider, as well as bills that are of an urgent nature. The Supreme Council should also consider fourteen bills that the President declared urgent. These are mainly bills of socio-economic orientation. Taking this into account, you have a draft agenda that includes 106 issues that include 117 bills along with alternative ones. Obviously this is a real number. Among them are fourteen urgent, twenty - five, which the government requests to consider in the first order, eight of the ratification issues. Your project is discussed on Monday on the Conciliation Council and is generally supported. In recent days, however, a number of suggestions have been made for the Supreme Council to make the appropriate decision. On these additional bills and questions, let me inform you, fellow honourable Members. In addition, proposals were made to include thirty - nine bills and questions in the agenda of the day’s first session. Of this total of seven issues, profile committees have raised, nine bills have proposed other committees, but they do not have the support of professional committees. Eighteen bills of inquiry have been proposed in addition to the agenda of the day by the MPs: Ulya Timoshenko and the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Eight pieces of legislation were introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies themselves. Considering that the above additional proposals are not previously supported by the Conciliation Council. And most of them weren't considered at all by the profile committees. We cannot do so in accordance with the Supreme Council’s Rules, part 3 of article 2.4. 1 put them to the vote today. Ladies and gentlemen, let's discuss this. Please sign up for the procedure. On the board, please. National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u6	I would like to give the floor to the national deputy, Mr. Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u7	Turkish national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u8	Yulia Timoshenko, Fatherland Party Alexander Turchinov. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. First of all, I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're disinformation the hall. As for the offer of the Julia Tymoshenko bloc faction. In time, before you were elected Head, we made our proposals for the inclusion of drafts in the agenda. Moreover, twice on the Conciliation Council, I raised this issue and the Conciliation Council did not object to the inclusion of our bills in the agenda. And now you're saying they're extra. These are your extra bills, that's the first. The other one. In accordance with the Rules that are in force today in the Supreme Council, when the committees have not considered matters in accordance with the Rules when they are registered in our Secretariat, they should be included in the agenda. It is the responsibility of the presiding officers to ensure that they are included in the agenda. If someone is willing not to include them in the agenda, they may put them to a vote to exclude them from the agenda that is voted in the Supreme Council. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, insists that the following bills be included in the agenda, which were boldly and cynically thrown out of the agenda. The first is the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of People's Deputies, No. 1180; the draft Law on Amendments to the Articles of the Civil Procedure Code, which also relates to the election of the National Deputies, is Act No. 1179, the draft Law on Amendments to the Articles of the Budget Code, No. 1165; the draft Law on Principles of National Interests of Ukraine, No. 1183; the draft Law on Compensation for Executions of Citizens Affected by the Activities of Trusting Associations, No. 1190; the draft decree on the initiation of the procedure for the removal of Kuch by the President in the order of the impeachment, 1178; the draft decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of the Supreme Council on the circumstances of the murder of journalist Gongadeze, Igory Alexandrov and other crimes of senior officials, 1177; the draft decree on the inclusion in the order of the day of the first session of the 4th session of the Supreme Council for the 11th session of the 11th edition.23 of the draft of the Draft of the Cabinet of the 11th edition of the Law; Mr. Chairman, the faction must declare that when we are deprived of our rights to include drafts in the agenda, we will block the session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u9	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u10	May I have the floor to the head of the Social Party, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u11	People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to a few procedural points. First of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Conciliation Council did not consider the substance of the matter and, in particular, the proposals of Sochfaction, they were not discussed there. It was only a mechanism for the inclusion in the agenda of issues proposed and registered in the Secretariat and proposed by the legislative initiative’s deputies. So the point is that we're taking the proposed project on the basis and we're including all of the projects that the Turks are talking about now and not just the Turks. I remind you once again, the decision of the Conciliation Council, if even exercised by voting, is still uncertain about the order of the day. If you're against inclusion, you're against inclusion as Head, not Conciliation Council, and I'd like the MPs to know that. First. It's different. Regarding other regulations, such as the creation of commissions of inquiry. I quote an article of the Constitution, article 89: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine for the purpose of investigating issues of social interest creates temporary commissions of inquiry if at least one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council voted for it." And what was voted only on the establishment of a commission regarding the bank "Ukraine" is a constitutional norm, and the procedural norm cannot be more legitimate than the constitutional norm. That's the first one. It's different. Likewise, I insist, and I think that a third of the deputies in the session room will support the proposal to reinstate the work of the inquiry commission on the arms trade in Ukraine, an unauthorized commission such as that worked in the past warehouse, and a commission to investigate the circumstances of the murder of journalist Gongadze and other known people in Ukraine. This is something that must be voted on. So I repeat: On the Conciliation Council, we did not discuss this issue in the context that you have presented, and please take into account all the rights of legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u13	Please, National MP Mishur, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u14	[[Valerius Mishur, Communist faction]] . I give the word to Peter Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u15	National Deputy Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u16	Thank you, Valery Dmitrovich. Dear colleagues, the faction of Communists is that we agreed on what would be proposed by the committees and identified the minimum list that would be important for us to accept at this session. But if we go in the process of expanding the order of the day, first, we question the possibility of adopting those documents that we have identified as urgent, and secondly, the faction will insist on adding additionally to the agenda of such bills, namely: 1016 - draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Pension Insurance on Minimum Employment Pensions at Age and their Indexation, draft 1071 - draft Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices for Agricultural Production - Project Parubka; draft Ukrainian Law 1049 - Amending certain legislative acts on the bankruptcy of mining enterprises and enterprises of industrial engineering - Verubka project; draft law on Ukraine 1049 "On the adoption of certain legislative acts on the bankruptcy of mining enterprises and companies of commercial power theft" - draft "On the draft of the law of Ukraine on the issue of economic monopolies into the production of alcohol industry" - 10 So once again, we consider it appropriate to accept a limited list of issues. But if we move to expanding the order of the day, the faction will insist on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time taken to speak on procedural matters is exhausted. Honorable national MPs, regarding the charges of the presiding officer’s own judgment. I would like to remind you once again that at the Conciliation Council, with the exception of two factions, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, there were no objections to the draft agenda. Then he was accepted by the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues. He was adopted by consensus. Next. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the Conciliation Board is considered to be acceptable if 226 totals are accumulated. Let's figure out the exception of two factions, and you're going to have a search number. Let's move on. Regarding the observation, the distinguished national MPs, that there are enough 150 votes to create a commission of inquiry. Yes, 150 votes are enough to create a commission of inquiry, but to include this issue in the agenda, 226 votes are also required in relation to the Rules. Let's move on. In accordance with the Rules, I quote, the mandate of the Provisional Supervisory, Audit or Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council shall be terminated automatically by the Supreme Council's final decision on the results of the work of these committees, and by the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council which constituted these committees. I would ask the honourable national MPs not to push me into breaking the Rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that this situation has also been discussed with the head of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Matthew Hennady Grigorovich. The meeting also took place in the first Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, where representatives of the factions of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc and the Socialist Party acknowledged that the proposals they made violated the procedure and violated the Rules. Then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear national MPs, one minute, distinguished national MPs then I propose to go in this order of work: to accept the proposed project as a basis, and if there is insistence, to vote on those proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u19	You must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take up your jobs. And according to the regulations, we'll work. If it's necessary, you'll all be speaking. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Please sit down, please take your seats, let's continue our work. There was a need to discuss this issue in a simplified way: two in a row, two in a row. [[Statements will be made on Tuesday and Wednesday]] Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to take your seats. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, ask two factions to announce a recess to hold half an hour’s consultation. It's being announced. The faction of the "One Ukraine" bloc as well as the Social-Democratic Party. [[United]] There's a break for half an hour. The session will continue at 11 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u21	We'll continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. In view of the situation that has arisen, it is obvious that we need to discuss it, and then I suggest that we make statements from the factions within a minute, as well as offer to speak to the head of the Regulatory Committee. Pursuant to the Rules, the factions that proposed a break are the first to appear. Please, from the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I don't think we've conducted our Coordination Council very clearly and it's not clear what kind of bills we're introducing today. I think the next time we're going to be more specific about this list, and we're going to be very clear about it. But now there's a problem. We have 39 bills proposed by seven committees and 32 deputies. In order not to interrupt our session, there is this proposal: These 39 bills should be read and then voted 106 plus 39 with one packet. This, I think, would be good for everyone, and we'd be very calm to vote on what we're doing next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u23	Thank you. From the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] You don't? Please, from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, Turkinov, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, we must not allow a very dangerous precedent with you when, at the request of the Presidency or other factors - the Secretariat, the Supreme Council's Office or other representatives - the President's Office, the Cabinet of Deputies are depriving them of constitutional rights, depriving the deputies of the right to submit to the meetings of the Supreme Council those bills they promised to pass through the Supreme Council to their electorates. That's the first one. It's different. Vladimir Mikhailovich, on behalf of our faction, I am addressing you. You don't have to misinformation, you just have to lie to the hall. I was a member of the Conciliation Council, where I specifically named all the bills that weren't included in the agenda, even though they were registered at the right time, they were registered, colleagues, even when we didn't have a Presidium, even when we had a Spikeriad. And it's understandable why they didn't get into the daytime. They did not fall because there are decrees to set up investigation committees to investigate the crimes of senior officials who govern our state. Bills are not included because, among them, laws and regulations relating to the President's impeachment, i.e. there is a danger to the regime's leaders that these issues will be discussed by the Supreme Council, they are afraid even to discuss these bills with you. And that's why we insist that we include all the bills that were put on the Conciliation Council, and there was no objection to the inclusion of these bills on either the committees or the Conciliation Council. That is why we insist that the honourable presides, honourable deputies, include all the bills that have been duly registered and which do not contradict the Rules and the legislation of our country. And that's the only way to vote on the ruling that we're offered here today. Otherwise, don't vote for it. I repeat that if our faction or other national MPs are deprived of their powers illegally, we will fight both in Parliament and in the extra-parliamentary way for our rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u25	From the Socialist Party, National Deputy Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u26	Deputies! There's someone on the radio right now, and then they're going to show us on TV tonight, a group of deputies blocking the rostrum, as if blocking the work of the Supreme Council at all. And people need to know why, and for that reason, two moments. The Conciliation Council does not consider the matter in substance. This is the function of the Supreme Council. The Conciliation Board examines the status of their readiness from committees and factions, and it may find the results of a likely vote when needed. So after Turkey's speech to the Conciliation Council, he took the floor and said that since we are the legislators of the legislative initiative, according to our obligations to the electorate, we have prepared draft laws, registered them in an orderly manner, we should vote on all these projects on the basis of the day of the session, then dismembering them at the level of readiness -- which need further preparation. And if we don't get to see them at this session, they'll be transferred to the next session. In this regard, there was no objection from members of the Conciliation Council. So I can say that consensus was on our side. There were no objections. While the chapter on consensus cannot mention, although two men have expressed themselves differently, other members of the Conciliation Council have not objected to such reasoning. And what's really important here is for radio audiences and television audiences to explain what's going on here -- the head of the Supreme Council can't deprive any deputy of the constitutional right of legislative initiative. Because by procedure there is a violation of constitutional law, that is, the Head of the Supreme Council begins to violate the Constitution. You can't let that happen. And the second. The head made false information, delicately speaking. Since the faction, no one has been to a meeting of the Rules Committee or to a deputy head of the Supreme Council. At least nobody told me about it. And the order should be that -- if the faction comes from the representative, it must be, the faction's head should know about it. I'm saying that being at work, as usual, by the way, and on weekends, including Saturdays and Sundays, that I'm saying to the Head of the Supreme Council, he might need it. And once again I remind you, you will be, Vladimir Mikhailovich, manipulating the session hall, not getting support even among those who elected you as Head, because they are also normal people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u27	From the Communist Party of Ukraine, factions. Will you be performing? Please, National Deputy Simonenko, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u28	[[Simonenko, Communist faction]] Dear colleagues, we need to find a way out of this situation now. And it seems to me that the solution should be looked for in the same regulatory capacity and also based entirely on the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. First, each of us has the right to make draft laws, and the Supreme Council has to consider them for content, although the procedure provides for their consideration on committees and the identification of the positions of committees. But if the national MP insists, the Supreme Council should determine the fate of the bill by already voting in the Supreme Council. So we, the Communist faction, are proposing the next mechanism for solving these contradictions. First of all, we have a project that we can look at. Secondly, we need to prepare an immediate list of the projects that Turkinov has put in place. And we, the Communist faction, will support the inclusion of them in the agenda of the day session, because these are our initiatives. This faction of communists has repeatedly insisted on the proportional system of elections to the Supreme Council, on the subordination of government, on the consideration of the draft law of the President's impeachment and much more. That's why I'm proposing right now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's not necessary, as they say, to exacerbate the situation in the Supreme Council, but it's now urgent to hand out a list of the bills that the faction is introducing or announced by the Turks. And then we're going to vote with those projects that we were given earlier during our registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u29	From the Social Democratic Party, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk, please. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I also propose that this commission be decided in the session room. So the Conciliation Board has offered, but the session hall can make some adjustments. But in order for us to be aware of what we are voting for, we need to know the meaning of the list of the 39 bills that are being passed by the factions. So you could, say, take a break and print it, or you could ask the Head of the Supreme Council to read what additional documents are being submitted to the Supreme Council. And then you can either vote together for it or not vote on how the session room will be determined. But put to the vote, I think we should. Only in this way can this problem be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u31	From the faction of "Our Ukraine" will there be performances? People's Deputy King.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on July 5, last year, we decided here in the session room to set up a temporary investigation committee to determine the causes of the crisis in the Bank of Ukraine. The commission worked for almost six months. Within a short time, she named the real reasons that led to the collapse of Ukraine's largest bank. And you know, we weren't afraid to call it commission members -- abuse, corruption, these are other violations of legislation. Under pressure from you, an investigation was conducted by the Attorney General's Office. We have created an unprecedented beginning in the history of our Ukraine when the abuse of officials in the financial banking system became an asset of the media. People found out who broke it. We've adopted two legislative acts -- that's the law and that's the Supreme Council's decrees. But the interim commission of inquiry was unable to draw the basic conclusions and tell you what was done. So I was asked by individual national deputies, faction leaders, voters to continue the work of the interim commission of inquiry and to complete the case. Moreover, from July 1st, the payment of the money we voted for and passed the law will begin. Knowing the situation, for six months we failed to control it, the abuse began again, and these funds began to be stolen from the account. And that's why the faction "Our Ukraine," according to what it has declared, is the protection of our electorate, it's the principle of dealing with crime, breaking laws in any field and any person in principle asked the question of the continuation of the commission's work. On the basis of these requirements, I have taken note of the determination that has been made to you. The faction leaders agreed to this and placed their representatives on this interim commission of inquiry. On Tuesday, I did not see in the list of questions to be put on the agenda. I turned to the leadership of the Supreme Council and me. Victor Mikolaiovich: Don't worry, we'll ask these questions, and when the hall makes a decision, we'll make it. And when two more questions were asked today, first and second, which was voted for, and I didn't hear about the Bank of Ukraine, I went to the leadership, I called you, and we raised this question under pressure. So I've been entrusted with the largest faction of "Our Ukraine" in support of those factions that essentially advocate this idea to say today that as long as the issue is not resolved with this commission, we will not participate in the formation of the agenda of our session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u33	From the Regulatory Committee, National MP, Ms. Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! I think we've stumbled across you where there are no obstacles, no grounds for that. On the contrary, what the Rules of the Supreme Council say. Chapter 2.4, "The agenda of the day session", article 2.4: "The agenda of the Supreme Council's agenda for the day includes two chapters: the first is questions that are fully prepared for the consideration of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council; the second is questions that the Supreme Council is tasked with preparing and developing for the commission of the Supreme Council and the relevant bodies. And that's what we have to get out of. And the constitutional right, indeed, is for the national MPs to take their legislative initiatives into this room. Next. Discussions on the inclusion of any issue in the agenda of the day session are being followed by a reduced procedure. So Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we must now move on to a direct consideration of this issue. Discuss it and make appropriate decisions by voting on proposals from national MPs, individual national deputies, or the whole faction. And finally. What are these, Vladimir Mikhailovich, 39, really, bills. They were distributed or not distributed, and this is the Supreme Council's apparatus that should provide such help, and you would publish it in the Hall, that these are bills if they were handed over to the National Deputies. If not, do so now in the hall or read at least the essence of these bills of which they are introduced. I think that's the way we're going to get out of that deaf corner that we've just driven ourselves into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal has been made for the project that was considered on the Conciliation Council, which includes 106 bills and questions to add those bills and questions that are urged by committees, national deputies, and to vote together in a package. So this is going to be 106 plus thirty. Ladies and gentlemen, this is going to be 106 plus 39 bills. Let's talk about this in a simplified way. I'm asking two for two against. As for the question of whether these bills were distributed, because they did not pass through the conciliatory council, they were not distributed accordingly, they were a lot of materials. I can thus offer the people's deputy Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk to make a statement. If there is a need and you insist, we will multiply them and distribute them if necessary. I'll give you a list and.. I'll let you know, and then I'll decide whether or not to give it. Let us vote for such a proposal. I'm asking because the offer is reduced, two for and two for. You for, Alexander Alexandrovich? People's Deputy Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u36	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have submitted a list of drafts and legislative proposals to the Secretariat from the faction. And the documents themselves are registered at the right time and the list that needs to be included in the order of the day. And I don't have to read these laws orally right now, especially the law, for example, on the principles of domestic and foreign policy, on the return of savings to citizens and some other documents, because it's a recommendation from the voice. We've brought them into the Secretariat in an orderly fashion, so I'd like them to be included. If some MPs doubt that they are not prepared properly, firstly, in vain, and secondly, they doubt, then they can be put in a chapter after preparation, after they have all come to know each other, but they should be on the general list, and there is no need to sound them, now to get to know each other, because there has never been one in practice before, and this Rules do not. I want this to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u37	Please, National Deputy Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u38	Thank you. We have a situation this way. There is one document distributed on the Conciliation Council containing 106 bills. He's on our hands, we know him. Today it is called 39 Bills, which are presented. We're talking about them, but at least we can see the names and numbers of these documents, unfortunately, we can't. And it turns out that we have a third class of bills. Well, in particular, I've called five bills, which, as I said by factions, we're also going to insist on if we go through the introduction of additional bills. I mean, when we're talking about 39 bills, we have to add up to those 5 bills that I called out of a voice today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u39	Thank you. National MP Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to express my support for the presidency of the Supreme Council and say that, yes, as a national deputy from the beginning of the Supreme Council's work, I have introduced six bills and I believe that what we have left to do for two plenary weeks and is already proposed to consider 106 bills is a position that some factions are politicizing this issue. I want to look back and remind you that the budgetary process has begun, and we need to first look at laws that would allow the budget to be filled, to improve public finances and so on. If anyone thinks that the next election will take place by the end of this year, let us consider the election law. If this is provided for in the Constitution in 2006, we still have time. And I'd like to propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that was the problem of the last summons. Not only should we accept, we should consider issues that would take up our time in the session room, but there should be priorities. And we think, and our position is to give these priorities to economic laws that are now working to improve and social policy in the state. So let's be clear about this and accept those suggestions, the order of the day of the first session that is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u41	Thank you. Turkish national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that all the laws that the Presidency today calls as additional are not so, they were registered at the right time. Moreover, the Secretariat has given us evidence that they were all handed over to the national deputies, that is, the full text of the law in all of you. That's the first one. The second is about Mr. Konovaluk's speech. Dear colleague, this is not about problems that are more important, which are less important. This is defined by the Supreme Council, which defines the committee after they are included in the agenda. The point is that it is not possible to set a precedent when laws are ruled out subjectively for the sake of certain interests, and the right of a national MP to make his proposals is excluded from the order of the Supreme Council of the day. So, Your Honor, we are very much asking you to support the proposal that has already been made in the hall. In view of the fact that the laws were passed out, there are two options for getting out of this position and for voting. One option that you've suggested in principle is that you can agree with it that you call the law number and its name, and that's enough. Another option is to start a discussion of the following issues that we have today in the agenda until the secretariat prints and gives us the only list to vote on. This is the second option. Depending on how you feel better, we don't care. The main thing is that all the laws that are insisted upon here in the House of People's Deputies, in particular our faction, are included in the agenda, and only in that case can we vote in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u43	Thank you. A proposal from the Regulatory Committee, and we will conclude the discussion. National MP Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u44	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you can't or can't at least read these 39 bills that we've already been talking about for an hour, there's a proposal to unlock our work. Here's the deal. To give a mandate now to the Chief of the Supreme Council's apparatus to prepare urgently the necessary materials to get to know the people's deputies, or at least to name the numbers, to name the substance of these bills, to get to know the MPs about what we are talking about, and then to go back to the issue of the agenda or after 12.30, after the first break, or maybe even at 16 hours, if it takes more time, or if it takes up to 12 hours 30 minutes. Thank you. And now we've been able to move on to our approved agenda for today's plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear National MPs, those bills that are proposed to be included in the agenda, as far as they are concerned, you should have them. And there's a prepared list. If you don't mind, I could make this list, if you don't mind, we could vote together with these 106 laws, draft laws and issues that are proposed for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like only to ask, because proposals are now coming back, literally not yet registered, but also to include them for consideration. Let's at least limit ourselves to that. The laws that are proposed by the profile committees and in the last days have come. That's seven bills. Draft Law on State Debt, draft National MP Tsushka. It was received on June 18. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Postal Law. It was received on 3:06 p.m. Draft Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, draft national deputy Konovaluk. Project 1013: Draft decree amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the improvement of the Council system. The project of the National Deputy, Eden. Project 1115: The draft Law on Amendments and Recognition, which has become invalid, some laws and other laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. Project 1115 is a draft decree on the structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Karmazin People's Deputy Project. 1243 is a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments, governments and the public of the member states of the European Union. We've already put it in the agenda. The second is the bills and questions that other committees have proposed but have not been supported by the profiling committees. No. 0890. Ukraine's Civil Code and the Ukrainian Civil Code Act for the implementation of the Ukrainian Civil Code with the President's proposals. Number 0891 as well as 0891-1. The Ukrainian master code, the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Entry into Force of the Code of Masters, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. 0892-1, draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation, second reading. 0962, draft Law on the administration of public property, second reading. 0935, draft Ukrainian Tax Code, third reading. 0924, Ukrainian Law on International Contracts with Proposals by the President of Ukraine. 0922, Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of Violations of Ukrainian Legislation in Privatizing the Petroleum Gas Complex with Presidential Proposals. 0923, Ukrainian Law on Alternative Energy Sources with Proposals by the President of Ukraine. 1171 draft arms law, the Karmazin People's Deputy Project. Bills and questions proposed by the MPs are 18. 0936, draft of the President of Ukraine Act. [[third reading]] 0999, draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of Ukraine. Is There a God Who Cares About You? 9 / 22 In 2001 1177, draft Decision on the initiation of the procedure for the removal of Kuchma Leonid Danilovich from office of President in the order of impeachment and the establishment of a special interim commission of inquiry. Project of the People's Deputy, Omelchenka. 1179, draft Act on Amendments to Articles 243-5, 243-15 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code. Project of the Turkinov People's Deputy. 1180, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Project of the Turkinov People's Deputy. 1017, as well as 1017-1, draft Act on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Project of the People's Deputy of Vienna and project of the People's Deputy Rudzkowski. 1112, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings on Savings Procedure. Project of the People's Deputies of the Frost. Draft Decision on the inclusion in the agenda of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth vocation of the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on its activities. Project of the Turkinov People's Deputy. 1173, draft of the Property Reprivatization Act in Ukraine. The Semenyuk People's Deputy Project. 1183, draft Act on Principles of National Interests of Ukraine. Project of the People's Deputy of Belarus. Draft Law amending article 22 of the Code of Budgets. Project of the People's Deputies of Sitnik. 1190, draft law on compensation for the loss of citizens who have suffered as a result of the activities of trust companies and other non-bank financial institutions. The Taran People's Deputy Project. Project of the Concept of Reconstruction and Further Development of Non-Food National Consumption Products in Ukraine based on the Ukrainian National Industrial Company. [[Project of the People's Deputy, Levcun]] Draft Law on the Protection of Selective Achievements in Animals. [[second reading]] Draft Law on the Fundamentals of Financial and Budgetary Support for the Agricultural Industry of Ukraine. [[second reading]] 1170th draft decree on the situation in the village of Kupyan district of Kharkiv. [[Semenyuk People's Deputy Project]] 1178 - Draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council to investigate the circumstances of the murder of journalist George Gongadze, Igor Alexandrov, the attack on the lives of Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Jeliaškević and violations of the constitutional laws, the laws of Ukraine. [[draft People's Deputies of Omelchenka]] 1184th Draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the events that took place on March 9, 2001 in Kiev. [[Project of the People's Deputy of School]] Next comes the bill, which is proposed by the individual people's deputies, eight of them. This is 1250th draft of the Law banning the activities of the Communist Party of Ukraine. [[Project of the People's Deputy of Ratušnjak]] 1160th Amendment Act to article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. [[Project of the People's Deputy Dobkin]] 1222 - Draft Decision on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the crisis in the financial situation of the share-holding commercial agro-industry bank "Ukraine" and to verify the legality of its liquidation. [[King's People's Deputy Project]] Draft decree establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the situation of the assassination of Ukrainian National Deputy Vitrenco Natalija Mikhailovna, Ukrainian National Deputy Marcenko Volodymira Romanović and other Ukrainian citizens, which was carried out on October 2, 1999. [[Project of the People's Deputy of Bezpalogo]] Draft Decision on Information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the course of investigation of criminal cases against the National Deputy of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymirivni. [[Project of the People's Deputy, Gurova]] In addition, it is proposed to include in addition the Supreme Council Resolution 1210 on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, concerning Ukraine's entry into the Eurasian Economic Society. As well as the Supreme Council Resolution 1256 on the Establishment of an Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Verification of Illicit Trade in Arms, Military Property and Their Illegal Transfer to Other Countries. All of it. What if it's out of procedure? Please, from the Simonenko procedure, Peter Mikolaiovich, Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u46	Simonenko's Communist faction. Dear colleagues, once upon a time, we are forced to face the fact that in the present case, draft laws are specifically put in place that are not in a position to vote on a faction in support of either the basis or the overall agenda. I reiterate my appeal to some authors to read the Constitution and the Laws, which clearly states that the activities of any party and its prohibition are determined by a decision of the Supreme Court. And to honor and honor the people's MP, the people's MP, to introduce draft laws that do not know the Constitution. Why did you even come here when the People's Deputy to the Supreme Council if you're in violation of the Constitution yourself? Therefore, this provocative 1250, Vladimir Mikhailovich's draft law and the faction of communists categorically insists and requires you not to include those laws that violate the Constitution at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u47	Please, People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u48	The honourable deputies, the Secretariat, by registering some of the other bills, are also governed by the requirement to comply with the Constitution. And so Peter Simonck’s remark is absolutely correct on this point. I would like to include this because on May 14, a law was registered with the President's proposals to amend the law on monetary income indexation. It was voted in the Supreme Council by law, it was vetoed by the President, it was registered in 1912, it has to be included. I also insist that the law on the principles of domestic and foreign policy be incorporated into the order of the day. There are three versions of these documents from the 3 factions. The requirement of the Constitution must be incorporated into the order of the day. [[86 Article paragraph 5]] Regarding the procedure of consideration and time, we will be determined separately. As well as 1229 law, the draft State Debt Act, also registered at the Secretariat at the right time. And the principles are number 1040-2, and there are several projects under this number. I think that would be enough for us to be able to form a normal order of the day, given that that part of the laws that aren't being considered now, in this session, because naturally the Supreme Council won't get there, it will take them to the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u49	Please. People's MP Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u50	George Manchulenko, Chernovets region 302 constituency, faction of our Ukraine. It is good that there are experienced deputies with you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and they give you names. My proposal concerns a bill that deals with addressing the President of Ukraine in relation to the Eurasian Union. I think that for the faction of "Our Ukraine" this is also to some extent, or to a full extent unacceptable. The fact is that the President here delivered his message to the Supreme Council of Ukraine clearly outlined our external political interests. Our strategic goal is to join the European Union. And such a project, which is being submitted to the President about integration into the Eurasian community, is totally unacceptable to us, and this goes against the policy that our country, foreign policy and, in particular, the President of our country are currently pursuing. So the faction "Our Ukraine" also requires the removal of this project from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u51	Yes, distinguished national MPs! Please, the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u52	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Of all the bills you've named, only one cannot be included in the vote is Ratushniak's draft ban on the Company. Everyone else, likes the Euro-Asian or NATO, or the union is a discussion that needs to be discussed later. But there's only one out of the list, and you have the right to reject it, because really constitutional prohibition by any other means than in court order to ban the activities of any political party. On these grounds, I propose that you put all the bills to the vote, except one, because this does not allow us to do the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u53	Thank you. The last one is the National Deputy of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u54	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have agreed that the faction today has put forward five bills, one draft decree and four bills that are required to be incorporated into the agenda. I'm so aware that they're adding up to that list.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u55	Give it to me, please. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the bills and questions that have already been put forward by me, the proposal is to add the Labour Savings Index Act as well as the Law on Internal and Foreign Policy of Ukraine and the draft Law on State Debt. Yes, Alexander Alexandrovich? In addition, it is proposed to include a draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act on the size and indexation of minimum employment pensions. The National Deputy of Cibenko, Registration No. 1016; the draft of the Law on Prices and Prices for Agricultural Production, the National Deputy of Parubka, Registration No. 1071; the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Bankruptcy of Mining Enterprises and Enterprises of the Fuel and Energy Complex, the National Deputy of Kravchenka, Registration No. 1049, the draft of the Law on the National Monopolies for the Production, Storage, Implementation of Spirit and Alcohol and Tobacco Products, the National Deputy of Cibenka, registered number 1048; and the draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 1210, but it has already been announced, this is about the appeal of the Supreme Council to the President on the accession of Ukraine to the Eurasian Economic Community. Ladies and gentlemen, since there has been an insistence that the MP has the right to legislative initiative, that he may introduce any bill, and that any question may be proposed for consideration, let us, as we have agreed with you, vote together in the package to put into the order of the day's first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 106 bills passed by the Conciliation Council, as well as those bills that I have passed. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to now ask questions about laws that conflict with the Constitution and with existing legislation, we will not be able to vote then. When they're included in the agenda and we come to their specific consideration, then we'll determine whether or not they're acceptable to the drafts, the bills and the questions that the people's deputies have made. I'm putting the proposed project on the ground. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Please turn the system on. Please vote. [[11:49:36]] For 133 I'll have the factions, please. Thank you. For the reasons of the vote, please, Simonenko, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u56	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we, the faction of Communists, voted against the immediate approval of the agenda in which they were defined, so let us say, in which the defined issues are all proposed and proclaimed by the Head of the Supreme Council. We firmly vote against the fact that we grant such a right, whether we support the illegal actions of national deputies when they introduce draft laws that conflict with the Constitution. Once again, the same law on political parties, the draft law of 1250, which was passed by the national deputy Ratushnyak, has no right to be considered by the Supreme Council. That's why I'm asking, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put it to a vote without Bill 1250, remove it from this list. And the Communist faction will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u57	People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u58	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are two moments here. First. The list you have read has the same legitimate rights as those of the deputies in their seats. And what I said to Deputy Cibenko, I understand that all of this is the basis of the project that we're taking. Not just you, because you said so, what you sounded. That everything was sounded here by you and the deputies. First point. The second point is that the Head of the Supreme Council has no right to include matters that conflict with the Constitution in the order of the day. Finally, you can even, not including him in order, send a commission into the regulations to determine his constitutionality. So without the Ratushnjak project, which, by the way, rejects the authorship of this, you have to vote on the basis, on the basis, and follow the procedure further. [[I'm sorry, it's not regular, but the legal committee defines unconstitutionality.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u59	Alexander Alexandrovich, I'll give you an answer right away. I'm sorry. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I meant all the ones you proposed, and then I put them out, and they're included. Regarding your question about the draft Law banning the Communist Party, the National Deputy Ratushnyak came forward and said he was withdrawing his offer. But, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich, there are a number of questions and bills that are in grave conflict with the Constitution. Then let's be basically on all the bills. The Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Now we were voting on a decree that was clearly prepared literally half an hour or an hour ago. So the scheme was very simple: to include a few bills that exclude the voting of factions, particularly in the Company, for Timoshenko, and thus to overthrow the vote. We voted in favour, even though we know how it was done. And we believe that, in principle today, we have demonstrated that the Supreme Council can work and include all the bills that were submitted by the people's deputies, as we had to do immediately. Now, the honourable chairman, in view of the fact that the proposal did not pass. We have another proposal that matches the offer and the communists. We propose to include and vote in the decree, apart from those laws that were passed out to national deputies, also bills that are supported by committees and factions. You announced them. So the bills that last minute the MPs and the factions didn't agree with the factions, we saw that they didn't pass, and then the Company, and other bills that contradict the Constitution. Yes, I repeat my offer and ask my colleagues to support it. Add to the list distributed to the National Deputies the bills read by the Head, which are supported by committees and factions. And that's the way to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u61	Thank you. National Deputy Tihypco, then the Zarubinsky People's Deputy will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u62	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. There is such an offer. Indeed, in all the different visions of some of the bills that we should determine and vote on during this session. That's my offer. Yet, to base a list, say the one that was given to us, 106 bills. And then vote him on the basis, and then on all the bills that you've stressed, they've voted separately. Passing through, we add. So we can take into account, take some list that doesn't block the work of the Supreme Council, and after being determined democratically by voting on all the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u63	Thank you. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. I ask everyone to mention the experience of the work of the Supreme Council in the preceding years, when we actually had some kind of conflict in the approved agenda. I would like to mention that these collegiates arose when a whole series of controversial bills were being passed. One faction does not vote for this package because there is one bill that is unacceptable to it, another faction does not vote because another bill is such. There are a number of bills that are not essentially controversial, which are perceived by all MPs. If the Conciliation Council, in the presence of faction leaders, has found that there are 106 bills in there that no one in the room at this time raises objections, then it would be perfectly logical to want to get out of this deaf corner, vote acceptable to all the bills, and then look at everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u65	Thank you. National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u66	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable colleagues! You know, sometimes you wonder. We all have some experience in our work, and when those positions spoken by healthy people are not liked by someone, they are perceived by the deputies: yes, no, no, that's not going to work. Let's go back to the logic and go back to the experience that was developed in the Supreme See once again what we talked about. We have the agreed minimum agreed upon by the Conciliation Council - 106 drafts. Today, everyone sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies who worked in the last assembly has until the 5th, 10th bills that I would like to include in the agenda. Let us take the 106 drafts as a basis, vote, and then, as you say, that any matter must be resolved only by vote, put to the vote the following questions and by vote to decide whether to include them in the agenda or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u67	People's MP Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u68	George Manchulenko, Chernovets region, 203 district, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head! I'm going back to Bill 1210. And it's not that there are any outside political preferences. There are realities and requirements of time. And there are decisions that have already been made today by the leadership of the state, including the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma. And there is a message to the Supreme Council of Ukraine where our foreign policy priorities are clearly defined. This is primarily integration into the European Union. So I insist once again on whether we exclude this bill from the list that you read, or whether we are considering separately those bills that cause the most complaints today and are controversial and we are making a separate decision about them. Otherwise, we will have no effective vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u69	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for motivation is exhausted. The proposals they made were basically about us voting on every bill and every issue. And that's how you define. For the offer, please, National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u70	Martinyuk. A faction of Communists. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we will now find a compromise that will bring us closer to a solution. The practice of our constant in this case is to vote on bills that do not give rise to objections. Those bills that in one national MP or another raise objections, they're taken off the common packet. After the general list of issues has been voted on, they return to those questions. which have been pronounced so much for the souls and voted separately. Of the 20 or 30 you've read, maybe there'll be 2 or only 3 on which you'll have to vote on each individual. And if there's no objection, let's vote for those who have no objection now in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u71	That's what I suggested. People's Deputy Hubsky. National deputy Shevchuk, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u72	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, certainly the right of every MP to make proposals on drafts, but you may agree that every MP's right to make proposals on drafts. But you may agree that every MP’s right to get into the content of the bills is to understand what he is voting for and make informed decisions. In this case, we've heard a list of drafts, and most of my colleagues have asked a lot of questions about the content of these bills. And then it was called 39, 2 plus socialists, 2 plus communists, 1 plus representatives of our Ukraine, then 5 more, so we don't even know how many bills. In that case, we have no choice but to vote for a draft of 106 laws handed down and read by all MPs and put it to a vote, vote, and then work on additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u73	Thank you. National deputy of the Head of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u74	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, regarding specific proposals. Our faction made a specific proposal that we should put to the vote. First, I repeat, because there's something you don't understand and you're asking what other proposals there are. It is necessary to put to the vote the bills that were agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, on which there were no objections to the Conciliation Council, which were supported by factions and committees. These very bills include all of our proposals to our faction. And as for those who are being thrown into Communists and Timoshenko and so forth, individual deputies, we understand very well that this is a blocking tactic. Now for the Communists. Dear Head, the Ratushniak himself came to you and said that he had not signed a law banning the Company. You are obliged to immediately ask for an assignment, to find out in the apparatus who has registered a bill that Deputy Ratushnyak has not signed. Who did this? Why? What kind of forgery is this, and why are you so stubborn about filming it now? We insist that the vote now should not be 106, but all that we have made in our own time, because it has not been denied by the Conciliation Council and is supported by MPs and factions and committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, we've exhausted the time spent on motives, the basis of positions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say this. All of these were essentially proposals for the next one. First. The Turkinov People's Deputies. Take 106, and vote on those proposed by committees and factions. Next up, National Deputy Tihypak. Take that project that went through the Conciliation Council as a basis, and then vote each proposal separately, and then determine which bills, which questions will be found in support of the session hall. This proposal was supported by Zarubinsky, Matvienkov, and the national deputy Shevchuk. As for today's rejection of the National Deputies and not to vote on the proposals they have made, the honourable national deputies, you have accused me of ignoring the right of the legislative initiative of the National Deputies, and now you are forcing me to do certain violations again. It's about a bill banning the Communist Party. I was approached by a national MP, Ratushnyak, who said he was taking the matter down. That's what I'm talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, I immediately told everyone. I would then like to listen more carefully, and I have been instructed by the Chief of Staff to deal with the matter. After a 30 - minute break, we will continue to consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u76	I'm asking you to take your seats. Honorable national MPs, since the national deputy Ratushnyak withdrew his offer. So it's a day-to-day question, too. Number 1250, we've ruled out the offer. The Turkish National MP proposed to vote in package 106 plus bills passed by committee-supported committees and supported by factions. But, honourable national MPs, all the national MPs who have also tabled the bill on their own, except that the bill has been drafted, they also claim that their bills are supported by factions. So we should go back to voting on those bills and questions that are proposed with the Conciliation Council, plus those that have been put to the vote, as well as those proposed by the People's Deputies with the exception of one draft regulation 1250. For reasons of vote, the People's Deputy Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u77	George Manchulenko 203rd District faction of our Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm again addressing you on Bill 1210. He's giving us some objections, his motives have already been expressed, I won't repeat myself. Those bills, which cause certain complaints or rejections, should be excluded from the general list that you have announced and made decisions on them individually. There's going to be a positive decision, so it's included, negative, so it's not included. And all the others who don't object, vote on the list and end it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u78	Dear colleague, I fully agree with you, but there are proposals of the National Deputies and I must put them to a vote in the order of arrival. Now, here's the deal, I'm going to announce it again. One minute, I'll make an offer, dear colleagues. That we are voting for 106 bills passed by the Conciliation Council, as well as the bills and questions that I have put forward, plus we have proposed to the people's deputies, except for decree 1250, which is automatically being removed. I propose a vote, and then we'll consider other proposals. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[12:42:32]] For 193 For 193, no decision is taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to our second proposal. Now we're going to vote, then we're going to vote with motive. The second proposal made by the national deputies is: Tihypko, Zarubinski, Matvienko, it's the next one. Take and vote for us now on the basis of the project that was proposed by the Conciliation Council and then vote, when we adopt it as a basis, every bill that is proposed by the committees, by factions and by national MPs. Please vote. [[12:43:55]] For 1052 "For" - 102. The decision is not taken. The factions. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! On the grounds of the vote, please, National Deputy Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies! We're on the wrong path. The Supreme Council can't be a bill filter. We cannot forbid MPs, other entities of the legislative initiative to legislate, we can deny in fact and not vote for them. We can deny the order, the priorities, it's normal, but trying to ban the day-to-day bill is the way to block the work of the Supreme Council. If we don't get out of this way, I think we're days ahead of schedule, I feel like we're days before we're going to get out or we're going to get out. What we do now is political fornication, and political fornication is the most disgusting form of fornication. Let's give it up, we'll be more tolerant, we'll be more tolerant and we'll vote for inclusion in the agenda, and then in the process of considering the substance of the bill, each of us will vote as we see fit. And we're going to unlock the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u80	National MP Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u81	Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think you should take the lead, and we all need to listen to the proposal of National Deputy George Manchulenka. Because it's not the first time we've faced such problems when looking at a draft agenda for the day session we've had to find a procedure for unlocking this issue in the past. And in the past, this was done in such a way that all the questions that were officially registered by the Ukrainian people's deputies, all the projects that were officially registered, and then those bills were removed from that list, which caused even one MP's doubts, i.e. they caused denial. Those projects, which sparked objections, voted separately. So I suggest we follow this procedure. And that'll give us an opportunity to unlock that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u82	Thank you. People's MP Poshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u83	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Peter Poshenko, Solidarity Group, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the principle of the position of the faction "Our Ukraine." In the event that the draft decree on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Bank of Ukraine is not included in the vote, the faction "Our Ukraine" will not take part in the vote. So the request is for the bill that you're putting to the vote now, to include an additional project to create a temporary commission of inquiry for the Bank of Ukraine. This is the faction's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u84	Thank you. National MP Rudzkowski. And after that, the Turkish national MP, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u85	Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is a proposal to re-vote your first proposal to include in the agenda all of the bills registered, except for the bill on the Communist Party, which Deputy Ratushnjak has withdrawn, and to include also the proposal of Dusty on the Bank "Ukraine" and thus move on. And I ask you, to the Presidency: you are the representatives of Ukraine and SDPU, if you make such a proposal on the Conciliation Council, then your deputies should vote, not block the work of the Supreme Council. Otherwise, sit in the hall, and we'll do a better job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u86	Thank you. The Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, what's going on in the hall is understandable. That is, the Presidium and the factions that support not the people of Ukraine, but the Street of Banks, want to do everything not to include in the order of the day's decision, which concerns the commission of inquiry into the crimes of power that apply to the procedure of impeachment of the President, laws that want to regulate the election of Ukrainian national deputies, and so on and so forth. That's understandable. To that end, they, in addition to violating the rights of deputies, are artificially making decisions that are thrown into the hall to block the voting. Therefore, our proposal is the following, honourable colleagues: to vote first on all the bills, the decrees made by the people's deputies according to the requirements of the law. And certainly exclude those bills that violate the Constitution and the Ukrainian Rules. In particular, this applies to the Communist Party Bill. The question has already been raised, and it is discussed. And the person who introduced the bill was the one who did it because he didn't bring it in, by the way. And also to film, Vladimir Mikhailovich, those bills that were artificially registered today. I will remind you that according to the Rules, seven days are given to the national MP before his question is considered, brought in and registered for seven days. In order for the secretariat to verify the correctness, repetition or conformity of the bill to the requirements of the Constitution and the Rules. And seven days later, the Secretariat has the right to distribute these bills to us. So I propose, honourable national MPs, very specifically: to withdraw from the vote all the bills that have been tabled today in order to lift the vote, and to vote in such a way. It's a specific offer, and I hope everyone supports it. And besides, the faction tells me that we support the proposal of "Our Ukraine" to include a ruling concerning the commission of inquiry for the Bank of Ukraine. This is also a matter of interest to our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u88	The honourable national deputies, the proposals that were made, largely echo the proposal made by the national MP Martinyuk. It is this: that we are now going through those bills and questions, if there are any warnings in the national MPs, we are taking these questions for parentheses, we are all voting in a package, then we are going through short-term drafts that raise some doubts or warnings, and we are going to make the right decisions. This proposal, in fact, was supported by the People's Deputies of Manchulenko, who proposed to exclude one question, the People's Deputy of Zvaric, the People's Deputy of Cherniak, I think, agrees. With regard to the proposal of the People's Deputies, the question of creating a commission of inquiry for the Bank of Ukraine and others is present. And I take it, it doesn't give any warning to the national MPs. As for the proposal that the Turkish national deputy repeated again, I have to say, then we have to exclude the other bills that you insist on, including those that I read, which were introduced two days ago. Yet, honourable national MPs, I can read out which when the bill was introduced. And once again, you're proposing to me to violate the rights of the national MPs, especially if the proposals they make are supported by the faction. If there is no objection, dear colleagues, I would then read the bill and the questions that are proposed to be included in the agenda. If there were warnings, if they were to say so, we're going to take them out as parentheses. Accordingly, all who go through without warning will be voted on immediately. Is there no objection to such order? Since there is a denial of the Turkinov People's Deputies, it is true that it is difficult for me, very difficult to formulate a question right now, I would like to put it to the vote again to remove the deadlock. The proposal is down to the next one. It's essentially a matter of voting it out that we're voting in a 106 plus those bills that were passed, except for the issue of the Communist Party, right? People's deputies will be appointed, please. [[12:54:06]] For 207 In factions, please give. Ladies and gentlemen, before moving on to the main proposal made by the Poshenko People’s Deputies, he suggests adding. Ladies and gentlemen, I now propose to make a proposal to the Poshenko People's Deputies, who insists on voting, after which we will vote on the proposal of the Martínjuk People's Deputies and other members of the People's Parliament. It's going to be the next one. In 106 issues that have been passed through the Conciliation Council, include a draft regulation on the creation of a special commission for the Bank of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[12:55:21]] For-182 The decision is not taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, according to procedure. Please, National Deputy Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u89	Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Matvienko. Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm addressing you, I'd like to offer you a proposal for a hearing procedure. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, may I see you? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you have no right to make the next suggestion to put one that makes the previous one worse if you want to get to compromise in this room. And so your previous proposal was that the Conciliation Council plus the faction offerings, including our block, we voted, we got 207. Your next proposal was to say, "Proposal by the Conciliation Council plus the supply of factions, including the Yulia Timoshenko Block and plus the powder supply." And we put it to a vote. Then we can get some results. Otherwise, we'll block the voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I put in the way those proposals were made by the national MPs, and I placed them in such a sequence. I ask you not to combine two suggestions, since there were no proposals to unify them. We voted. Now I propose to move on this way, dear fellows. I'm going to read the bills and the questions that are proposed to be included in the agenda. You say your position: let's leave it or take it as parentheses. And so we're going to go through all the bills, and we're going to go over the list that I put out, and that's what the Ukrainian people's deputies proposed. Dear National Deputies! Please listen carefully. Draft Law 1229. Honorable National MPs, National MP Matthewenko insists on voting on his proposal. But, honourable national MPs, I must enlist your support that before that was the proposal of the National MP Martinyuk, who was supported by the People's Deputies of Manchulenko, Cherniak, Zvaric and other National Deputies. It should be put to the vote. But to that end, honourable national MPs, we must vote on the bill as a basis, and then we will express our views on each specific bill. I'll bet on it. Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, as you said, will be as decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote on the basis of a draft ruling that includes bills and questions that have been passed by the Conciliation Council, as well as bills and questions proposed by factions, committees and national deputies. Please make up your mind. [[13:00:58]] For-153 Honorable National MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to make myself clear. There is no draft regulation 1250, it is no longer available, it has been removed. So I explained, Peter. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I am putting the vote to the vote. But he's there. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again to listen carefully to the vote. The vote is based on a draft ruling that includes a draft ruling that has been passed by the Conciliation Council, plus bills and questions that have been tabled by factions, committees and national deputies that have already been delivered in the session room. But the issue of the Company's ban was removed because the National MP had withdrawn his ruling. And for the faction of "Our Ukraine," I say that these proposals predict that there is also a draft decree for a special commission for the bank "Ukraine." Please define this document on the basis. [[13:02:42]] For 221 Honorable National Deputies, for they are. The factions. The decision is not taken. Then I place, Honorable People's Deputies, to the vote the next sentence of the People's Deputies of Matvienka. Dear National Deputy Mishur, I am the non-fractional National Deputy and Head of the Supreme Council, and I ask you to consider this all the more so that you are a very tolerant person. Ladies and gentlemen, please rephrase your proposal. Please listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u91	[[Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko]] . Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to let us take this as a basis. And then who doesn't care which, we remove, vote, you make a comment, and they'll be removed from the agenda. My offer sounds like that. To vote on the basis of the agenda document, which includes issues agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, proposals by factions and proposals by Mr. Prashenko, except for the issue of banning the Ukrainian Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u92	Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, have you heard the offer? This proposal accurately repeats the proposal we voted before. It's the next thing that we, the honourable national MPs, are voting on the basis of all the proposals that have already been made in the session room, except for the question of the Company, and it's already been removed, and it doesn't exist at all. Please prepare for the vote. I'd like you to identify your national MPs. [[13:05:28]] For 217 I'll have the factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up. National MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u93	I'm addressing the "One Ukraine" faction and personally Sergio Leonidovich Tihypak. Sergei Leonidovich, please, you represent the faction of Ukraine. Your faction is now blocking the work of the Supreme Council. And I'm going to the Bureau. The Bureau, vote for the agreed and proposed project. We'll unlock the Supreme Council's work and move on. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you too vote and call on the faction "The One Ukraine" to be the Presidential faction. It blocks the work of the Supreme Council and moves on. Explain to them what you were taking a break for then? To block the work of the Supreme Council? And put the same question to the vote again, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u94	National Deputy Drogunzov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think if only a partial faction of Ukraine supported this project, it would be as you suggest. I mean, they'd remove questions beyond the list, then they'd have to vote separately. But for that to happen, we need to be on the ground. Well, unblock the matter, please. We would have moved forward a long time ago, essentially discussing the issues raised. I don't see a problem here. Without you, I mean, without the Yedu faction, there's not gonna be a single question, you know. So, what are you afraid of? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u96	Thank you. People's MP, Billorus, Timoshenko Street. Light up on the board, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u97	Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u98	The Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we don't understand why the proposals coming from the factions are treated by the chairman so that some of the deputies don't vote. We're going to repeat the position that corresponds to the Rules, which corresponds to the traditions of the Supreme Council's activities, that is to say vote, and this is a very important, honourable colleagues, all the projects that are proposed in the faction list. Committees, as well as those proposed by the deputies of our Ukraine, by a decision on the Bank of Ukraine, taking into account that there is no position on this list concerning the Communist Party which contradicts the Constitution. And after that, the honourable colleagues, to begin, and it's important, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this was what Matthewnko insisted on when he spoke, and it was after that that that he started to rule out those decisions that didn't make anyone. And after that, by expelling these decrees, vote on the ruling as a whole. This is a procedure that has always been in place in the Supreme Council that allowed for the adoption of the Rules. And I'm addressing you guys, let's follow this traditional procedure, let's not be afraid of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u100	Please put on board a list of the national deputies who have signed up. National deputy of Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u101	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u102	People's MP Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u103	[[George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Head, dear colleagues. There was a constructive proposal for a number of deputies to accept, on the basis of a list of issues except the issue against which the Communist faction protested. And then separately on those projects that caused denial, make separate decisions. Sadly, she did not receive most of the votes. Let's maybe try another one. Several questions that raise objections should be voted on separately first. If they go into the agenda, then without them, and because they're going to make a decision, I don't see any other options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u104	National deputy of Matvienkov. It's the only Ukrainian faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u105	[[Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City]] Dear colleagues, well, I'd like to take a moment to calm down. We all have a lot of experience here, how we can do what we want in the package, what we don't want to do. So let's do this. To find a way to unlock this situation, we need to reach an agreed minimum. All of us understand that the minimum, the basis from which we can now come from, is 106 bills plus the Bank of Ukraine. These are agreed options. What they're starting to say today is what we're going to take, and then we're going to take 226 votes out of there, well, excuse me, it's not a decision! Add, please, no questions. We vote in favour of the base and then we begin to consider proposals, as has always been done. That's what happened all the time. If anyone forgets, leave a transcript of those meetings that were convened in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u106	National MP Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u107	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u108	People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I address, above all, the representatives of the "One Ukraine" faction. You are now putting the Presidency of Parliament in a strange position. You chose it, and now it wants to unlock the work to move on, and you're under the mark that you're looking for a rational organization of Parliament's work, including only 106 or whatever, you're not allowed to work any further. And another question. We understand that not speaking to Matthew or to anyone else is not a matter of quantity, for everyone understands that such a number will not be considered. The question of what is included in the order of the day. Socially-stricken issues involving both the President and today's parliamentary head, such as the Gongadze Commission of Inquiry. Imagine, honourable deputies from "The One Ukraine," that it's your son or your brother, or your loved one, and you don't know the answer to what's happened for a year, more than a year now, it's going to be two years after you killed a man, and you don't want to know about it. You can't explain that to anyone in your constituency. I urge you to put once again to the vote the proposal of Matvienko Anatolia Sergiyovich, vote and remove the disgrace from yourself, because it will still be understandable and everyone knows perfectly well that all the questions that have been called today will be included in the order of the day and will be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, the time spent for reasons has been exhausted. I just want to say, Alexander Alexanderovich, I don't think there are people in Parliament who can be put in a position. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposals made by the national deputy, Mr. Doroguntsov, the national deputy, Mr. Turkinov, Mr. Manchulenka, Mr. Matvienkov, that in fact we should re-vote those earlier voting proposals. Then, honourable national MPs, I propose once again to vote on the basis, this is obviously the most acceptable proposal, based on the proposals put forward in the draft decision that the Conciliation Council passed, as well as the proposals that have been made here, except again, I would like to stress, 1,250 on the Company and include the draft Order on the Investigative Commission on the Bank of Ukraine. Then we'll consider when, on a basis, the bills to which we're going to object, we'll put them in parentheses and we'll vote, and then we'll vote the ones to which we're going to object. Is there no objection? People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[13:15:45.]] For the 220. The factions. For reasons of vote, please have five minutes. Please sign up. On the board, please. Dear National Deputies! For the reasons of the People's Deputy of Sithina, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Bogdan Gubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u112	National MP Bogdan Hubski
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, by voting this way, we will work until the end of the day without making any decisions. There is such an offer. First. To put to the vote 106 bills that were agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, and to take into account the proposal made by Dustenka from Our Ukraine, adding a bill related to the commission of inquiry at the Bank of Ukraine. And that's to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u114	People's MP, Billorus, faction of the Ulysses of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u115	National deputy of Belarus. Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u116	The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! Today, when the actual sessional day is torn down, we see what the culinary efforts to influence the situation on the part of the Bureau are doing. That is, the Presidency, which would have been unable to prepare the agenda that tried to break the Rules, has blocked today's vote by the Supreme Council and has broken the serious laws that we should have adopted with you. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, please let's mobilize our capabilities and vote for the proposals that have been made here. I realize that many colleagues are ready to give up the bills they have been proposing or at the request of their leaders of factions who have not been properly formed and who are actually in line with the Rules. I ask that we put to the vote those bills that are of interest to the people's deputies that have already been raised five or seven times here in the session room. That's true. I'd like to vote for the next one. That package that was introduced, it's hard to talk about it ten times already, from the Bureau. Next. The factions that demanded, i.e. the Socialist faction, the Fatherland faction demanded inclusion. And there was also a requirement not to include the Communist Party Act, which had already been removed and also required a specific requirement of our Ukraine for the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukraine Bank Order. Dear colleagues, I think these are just the kind of suggestions that should be addressed in this session room. And I suggest we vote for it. And then who has questions about individual bills to delete them, calling a specific author and the specific name of the bill. Please put this proposal to a vote and I'm going to the Social Democrats and the Eaters, let's work, let's work effectively today. [[United]] At least we have the opportunity to accept something other than the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u118	People's deputy, Buiko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u119	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Deputy Buiko, Communist faction, Donetsk region. I'm in connection with the last vote. You saw and I was present, and here are my comrades and our entire bloc have not been voted out. I therefore ask again, to put to the vote the last question that we have. A proposal that was voted by the latter so that we could participate with all of us. And ask them to really set up the system. Well, what didn't work? Five deputies immediately turned up. by the unvoted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u120	Thank you. People's Deputy Robber.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u121	Dear colleagues. Yuri Orobec, faction of our Ukraine. I propose to include in the agenda, in addition to the preliminary questions listed above, another decision to set up a special commission to uphold the legality of the election on July 14, this year. I went around the people's deputies and collected 153 signatures. I recently filed a motion for a ruling in the Presidency and I ask you to include this in the package. This is yet another reason for us to vote and with the privilege of getting out of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u122	Yes, distinguished national MPs, time is up. There were proposals for the People's Deputy of Hubsky to vote in favour of the project that was proposed. Please, distinguished national MPs! To vote in favour of the draft order of the day's first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call that took place by the Conciliation Council, plus the draft decree on the interim commission of inquiry for the Bank of Ukraine. Do you understand the question raised by the vote? People's deputies, please identify yourself. Please vote. [[13:22:32]] For-140. The factions. The Turkinov People's Deputy and the Buiko People's Deputies have proposed to re-vote the question, and I will formulate it that we are voting in favour of the draft decree, which includes 106 bills and questions passed by the Conciliation Council, as well as all the other bills and questions that have been passed here in the session room, and again I would like to emphasize, except for draft regulation 1250, including the ruling on the Bank of Ukraine. Please determine your national MPs. [[13:23:44]] For 213 The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the proposal of the National Deputy Workers, who proposes to vote on the basis of the bills proposed in the draft decrees, that are 106 bills and questions passed by the Conciliation Council, plus the questions proposed here in the session hall, as well as the draft decree number 1257 on the establishment of a special interim commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor the rule of law in the conduct of the re-election of the Ukrainian National Deputies on 14 July 2002. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[13:24:56]] For 221 The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, what will be the offer? Step away from the factions, please sign up. On the board, please. National Deputy Frost, faction of the Socialist faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, let's calm down. And there's a proposition that everyone seems to be able to support. The final sentence, which was voted on, takes an obvious advantage, has 221 votes already. Obviously, including both the SDPI(s) and the faction "The One Ukraine" are factions that are questionable because they have not seen the draft laws before them. So let's vote this way. We vote what you just put to the vote first as a basis, and we finally vote next sessional week. When committee members and committees and factions meet, they will look at all the documents, make their comments, and then be able to remove questions that are clearly not present at the current session. I think that would be a perfectly correct proposal, that is, to vote with the addition that the entire vote will take place in the next sessional week.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u124	Thank you. National Deputy Cranville, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u125	Please give the floor to MP Michael Kosev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u126	The National Deputy of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u127	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of "Our Ukraine" Dear fellow national MPs, let's start listening to each other's lessons, listening to each other. What is proposed, and what arguments are there against what is proposed? That we said we wouldn't consider such a large set of documents during the time we had left to work during the first session. But we're obviously not going to consider the 106 documents that Vladimir Mikhailovich is offering, and they're going to move on to the second session. Just as we failed to reach a sea of very important documents in the previous Supreme Council warehouse to consider, and they have come as an inheritance to us to consider. But the point is that we must put to rest in order of the day questions that are essential for us or not for all but for parts of the deputies to carry out their parliamentary duties. They must be either today or tomorrow or at the next session, but they must be in the order of the day. What's the matter? After all, we're not leaving. So I'm proposing that our colleagues in the "One Ukraine" faction understand that progress will not go any further if you disagree with what you and the other factions have the right to form their bills and demand their consideration, and whether they will be accepted or not accepted is the will of the Supreme Council. Let's take another look at it and vote it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u128	National Deputy Sharov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u129	Igor Sharov, Hard Ukraine, For Ukraine. Please pass the word to Sergey Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u130	Sergey Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u131	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! 10 times or more we've voted in different configurations, nothing works. We have a good mechanism. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I propose that we gather, faction leaders on the Conciliation Council, and try to find a compromise that would satisfy all of us in one way or another, so that we can move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u132	National MP Matvienko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u133	[[Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Tymoshenko Block]] Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't think I'll be offended by the other factions, because we have this kind of activity, because we want to help you organize the work of Parliament. That is why my proposal is to pursue this goal. First of all, I'm asking you: if you've already dialed 201 votes, or 221, don't step away from the formula that's got the most votes, try to find a compromise around this formula. You're throwing us into another peak of 120-130 votes. And in this way, we lose the opportunity to come to a successful vote. If this formula, which has the most votes, really can't find compromise in the room, then really take a break. As Head, you have the right to call the faction leaders, but let's move on to the construct. I understand we're going to finish the day's work faster than the Spykeriad, but they've been laughing at us ever since. And I address those who do not want to vote, because they fear the truth. I think we're voting for projects that are even being submitted to our faction's deputies for a special commission of inquiry there. So we're showing you our openness and our truthfulness. Ladies and gentlemen, please show us your truth, come out to the people and show us that you're not afraid of it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u134	National Deputy Cibenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u135	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in fact, there has already been an understanding of the list of bills that should be in order of the day. You've obviously noticed that we're repeating the exact same list of bills over and over again. So the point is that there's already a critical mass of those bills that have to be adopted and there's no result. Why isn't he here? Because this is the second time we've come to the same rakes, when the four factions of this room take a step towards compromise, they're offering some way out of this situation two factions, namely, the dominant factions, the government, the Presidential factions, namely, the Jedu bloc and the Social Democratic Party are blocking the vote. The paradox is that the leadership of the Supreme Council represents this particular trend, these very political forces. They're sitting in the lobby, once and for all, asking this question, and it's their proponents who don't vote in this room. I ask your support, once again, to put to the vote and support this list of bills. And if anyone has doubts at the end of the day, stop at what they accept as the basis of it. In the end, let's move on to the final adoption next time, and today, let's just take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u136	From the faction the Social Democratic Party is going to be a performance? [[united]] None. Dear colleagues, I am asking you to make a decision so that we can unlock the work of the Supreme Council. Here's a proposal from the National MP, Alexander Moroz, to now vote for the basis, including that project that was worked out and passed through the Conciliation Council, and the other bills that were discussed here. This proposal found the support of the national representative of Cibenk, and the vote in general will take place next Thursday when we have a day to make decisions. People's deputies, I ask you to identify yourself from this issue so that we can continue our work. I call on the people's deputies to decide on this issue, to vote. [[13:34:32]] For 224 The factions. On the basis of the vote, the People’s Deputy Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u137	D Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You can see very well what's going on in the session room for a few hours. There are specific questions for you. For almost a few days, you left the faction "The One Ukraine", which was headed by the head of the Administration today, Mr. Medvedchuk-SDPU. Is there any reason why you, as a speaker, are not interested in unlocking this further work of Parliament? I'm sorry, it's just my vision. Did the faction fully decide today not to support your opinion? That's why I have such a request to you as the Heads of Parliament. Maybe we should get Leonid Danilovich to inform him what's going on in the hall and unlock this work eventually. So I urge you to address in the presence of all the factions, all the people's deputies, now these two factions, why don't they act like they don't support you? They lovingly supported you in choosing the head of parliament, and today this is how they block further work. It's not clear what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u138	People's Deputy Robber.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! On the contrary, I would like to turn to the values that unite us in this room. We should not display any particular indiscretion where, in principle, compromise is extremely close. I appeal to those who still hesitate, but who are in the spirit of voting to take the responsibility of unlocking. So I'm asking you to put the last sentence back on the vote, but everyone to realize that we're in this final room, not to play with muscles, but to communicate our values to our electorate for which we came to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u140	National MP Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address today my fellow majority deputies who have fought for their parliamentary mandates over such a long period of time regardless of political preferences. Any decision that will be made in the Supreme Council will be finally taken after the adoption of the agenda and we will all show the attitude of a commission, of a bill or of a bill. But I'm going to talk to you again, and I think I'm going to come to the county on Tuesday or Monday and I'm going to talk about how we've been voting all day. Look at the presidency of our Supreme Council. All three Heads and Deputys, having understood this, voted in favour of the inclusion of the agenda. What's wrong with taking a smart step? I'm going to the Mayors of Non-Fraquential and colleagues of "The One Ukraine", SDPU(O), including the Deputies of Dryo, so that he doesn't scream at the entire Supreme Council the wrong words at the address of some MPs, let's say friendlyly and we'll report to our voters that we've really done something for them both for ourselves and for the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u142	His name was mentioned as the replica of the people’s Deputy Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u143	The country's high-ranking national deputies from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine! I don't call anyone's last name, if you continue to practice the thrill of the rostrum, the strong pressure here, you will do nothing good in your life short. And one more thing. We're blocking. We don't block, we want to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to rest. National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. First of all, let us calm down and respect each other and, of course, we have a duty to each other and there are voters behind us, behind everyone and the representatives of the parties who have entrusted the votes. In order to unlock this situation, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have the following proposal. Let us be clear, however, that in the past we had the next mechanism in place, if we had adopted the bill as a basis, we had a list of projects that had been adopted as a basis. Then, if one of the deputies had specific claims for consideration of a bill, the bill was automatically, I stress, automatically withdrawn from the list. In order for him to get there again, 226 votes were required by vote. If we define such a mechanism now and determine for it, then we vote and move on. If we don't define this mechanism, then let's call it a break, sit down and make a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u146	It's the people's deputy, Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies, dear Mr. Suhi, we would never have addressed you individually if we had no moral right. Because we remember clearly how you came to our home in 1991, Alexander Alexandrovitch Moroz, asking to help you escape from the Ternopil region and get to work where you have been working lately. So sit quietly and remember that scratching from Ternopol was easy, and you need to work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to be of mutual tolerance, not to take offense. People's Deputy Kirilenko. Ivan. People's Deputy Kirilenko, faction of Ukraine. Yes, "Our Ukraine" will speak. National Deputy Kirilenko, Our Ukraine. Kirilenko, National Deputy. Well, please, Kirilenko, People's Deputy of Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u149	[[Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of "Our Ukraine"]] . It seems to me that we are not currently considering procedural issues because Parliament is working in a situation of parliamentary crisis. In fact, we're considering the political issue and the meaning of it is that the Presidium and Speaker, who have chosen their own time in 226 votes, now have the current 140 votes, and the other part has 221 votes, 224 votes, to be exact. And that's the first reason that we've already broken all the records of all past calls for the approval of the agenda. So I'm proposing not only the Presidium, which is also now voting for the agenda, but also some of the deputies from the "For the One Ukraine" and the SDPU(o) faction to support the presidency's ratings and ensure that proposals are passed with all the questions now in the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u150	Dear National Deputies! You'll get all the words, I'm just asking you not to shout. National deputy of the Head of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u151	Dear Mr. Head and honourable members of the faction of the Social Democrats who have just threatened us with something that captures the rostrum and leads to nothing else. I want to tell you one thing, there's an MP in your faction who was sitting there as head of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR. And that's when I was chosen in 1990. And it was our actions -- the democratic bloc -- that we then acted in relation to the deputy of your faction, that allowed us to adopt the Declaration of State Sovereignty, and continue to allow us to adopt the Law on Ukraine's Economic Independence, and the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and everything else. But he did likewise start with what Litwin began. And so I'd knock on my fist and say, "What are you doing here?Oh, my God! Who are you?Oh, my God! Are you the boss or the head of the club or the head of the company?Oh, my God! You're an MP and a speaker! You can't violate my rights!" That's the first one. And the others. Ladies and gentlemen, we, our faction, support your one hundred and six positions! Why are you afraid of our only twelve?Oh, my God! They're very brave, aren't they?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u152	Dear people's deputies, one minute, we'll finish. People's MP, and we're done. Ladies and gentlemen, we have some time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u153	Your Honor, your colleagues! I turn to those who are today and who demonstrate such a power of inadmissibility, to demonstrate themselves in anticommunism. I'm talking to Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. Honorable Leonid Macarovich, set an example, set an example of wisdom. After all, the matter that goes on today predominates everything else. Political moments, speculative, have passed. Don't do what you can today with three or four votes. And you have enough wise people to do that today. I remembered today the anecdote when a cab driver, a nigger and a monkey was driving; when the monkey was not listening to himself, the cab driver turned to his passenger and said, "Michael, listen to your father!" So listen to your Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u154	National MP Carmazin insists, and we'll finish. All of it. National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Let's think about where we spent four hours. We've spent it on the fact that, contrary to the Constitution, in particular article 89 of Part 4, which predicted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate issues of social interest, and the dissolution of the State that continues this minute, is a social interest, creates a temporary commission of inquiry, if it has voted no less than a third of the Constitution's composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Further, the sixth part of this article is the organization and order of the committees of the Supreme Council and the Special and Temporary Commissions of Inquiry is established by law. We don't have this law, and Leonid Makarovich is very right here, and there are some people in his faction who say, "Let's make the law." I don't deny it. So maybe there's this compromise: first, to include the issues proposed by the Chief of the Supreme Council, and to include the proposal made by the Social Democrats to create a civilized law on the status of the Temporary and Follow-up Commissions, and that unlocks the question -- first. And secondly, everyone here is the national deputies of Ukraine, and everyone has the right to a legislative initiative, to limit himself to nothing, only the decision then takes 226. In order to include the Second Commission, 226 is not required, this has already been determined by the Constitutional Court’s decision, at all levels. So I'm asking the head of the Supreme Council, I'm asking the head of the faction of the Social Democrats, Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, I think, to take this proposal into account, to vote in favour, and to unlock the work of the Supreme Council, and to unlock the issues that matter to society, including where billions of money were distributed from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for communication is over. Regarding the proposals made by the national deputies. The proposal made by the people’s deputy Matvienkov was, in fact, formulated clearly and specifically, which, by the way, is shared by most of the hall. Now to vote on the draft decree on the order of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call as a basis, and on those bills that raise objections, to put them in favour of parentheses, to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to give me the opportunity to speak! Then vote specifically on those bills and questions that raised objections by discussing them in a simplified procedure. And this is the best way to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the issue of the adoption of a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the fourth call, including the draft decision of the Conciliation Council, and those bills and questions proposed by the National Deputies. These bills, after being adopted as a basis for denying, go into parentheses and are separately discussed and voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please turn on the "Race" system. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[13:51:05]] For 206 I'll have the factions, please. Dear national MPs, one minute. Dear People's Deputy Rudzkowski, please, we're with you. Honourable National MPs, National Deputy Alexander Alexander Moroz, who was not sufficiently clear on the question put to the vote. Please listen carefully. I beg of you, Your Honor, let's hear it. It will be determined that everyone has a right. We are now voting on the basis of the draft regulation "On the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fourth Call." It includes bills and questions that have passed through the Conciliation Council, that is 106, it also includes all the questions that have been proposed and have been raised today. We vote on the basis. And then the bills or the questions that raise doubt, the objections, we take the parentheses and we vote on them separately. Did I put my position right? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to put the vote to the vote, and I ask you to support us in unlocking the work of the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[13:52:58]] For 215 On the grounds of the vote, please, National Deputy Red. By factions, please give. I'll explain now, if you don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u157	Red, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I've, you know, been in Parliament for the fourth time, but I've never seen, met or read all these calls in the Rules. What do you mean, take the parentheses? Does that not mean that you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, want to apply the procedure for the election of judges at this time? There, indeed, are those judges who raise doubts, deny them, and then vote them to approve. In this case, the MPs have proposed a completely different procedure to the one set out in the Rules: those issues of the agenda that raise doubts form the basis and then the MPs vote in favour of their removal from the general order of the day. And so I ask you not to cross-reference the proposals of the deputies, but to put them to the vote in their proposal, in their interpretation, and not because of what you have published, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u158	Yes, for the reasons of the vote, the national MP, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u159	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! I have to speak again on procedural issues, because there is no rule in the Rules for removing the parentheses of the bill. So you put it right, put it to the vote again, and we will vote in the first reading. And for the braces, the procedure provided for in the Rules is that those bills that raise doubts about MPs are removed from the list during the vote as a whole. This procedure is provided for in the Rules. Once again, put it in line with the Rules, and we will get the required number of votes. There's still time for that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u160	The Turkish National Deputy and National Deputy Vaschuk and we will conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! I fully support the statement by Alexander Moroz, who has great experience in leading the Supreme Council. Indeed, with braces or no braces, for the first time in practice, it may be proposed to vote on the ruling. So there's a procedure to take as a basis. After that, any suggestions for this deletion order, maybe someone forgot something and wants to add, it's already a whole adoption procedure. And then, in general, the vote is put to the vote. But as a basis, you have to take everything you said without any parentheses or explanation. So on the basis, and then you already started the procedure that you wanted to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u162	National Deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u163	Card inserted. Dear national deputies, in order to find understanding in the hall, we must at least start by not insulting each other, treating each other the way we want them to treat us. Then we'll find some understanding. And the second. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, apparently by the blocks, the issue of keeping the order of the day is difficult for everyone. I understand this will take a little longer, but let's vote for each bill to include it in the agenda in particular. It'll take an hour and a half, but the process will be unlocked. And so we're going to have a whole series of arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u164	People's Deputy Cranwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u165	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's go back to the normal rhythm of work, really, completely according to the Rules. First of all, there's no rapping, but there's an exclusion procedure that's already been voted on as the basis of the bills. So that we can do this properly, it's pretty clear in three minutes that we won't take anything anymore. To have the Secretariat distribute a complete list of these decrees after the break, these bills, which go on an additional list. So that we can look at them and vote for the exclusion on each specific point. And I want to stay in this detail. In those 40 or 39 bills that are proposed, much of this is the decision to set up commissions of inquiry of the Supreme Council. These are not the kind of decisions that require a long discussion or a long work, and I agree with Deputy Konovaluk here, which we could not include, because there is no time for that session. Commission decisions are actually 2-3 minutes for each decision. I propose that they be clearly accepted, and then we will defuse the political atmosphere in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the proposals that have been made, and they are called upon to vote again for what we have voted on. I ask because the last vote was 215 votes and this was the proposal formulated by the national MP. One moment, distinguished national MPs! We had 221, and more, but that's the last. As formulated by the national deputy Martinyuk, he was essentially supported by other national deputies. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to make that proposal that you made, and I put it to the vote. I was making that offer that you proposed, and I was accused of violating some Rules. Please, Martinyuk, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u167	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, especially I turn to those who have already approved the agenda on more than one occasion, to those who have voted on more than one basis for certain decisions, draft laws and so on and so forth. Let's think about it, any document is voted on as a basis, and then it's voted after the discussion of one or the other proposals, the inclusion of an additional one, the exclusion from this bill or another, one or the other, is voted on as a whole. I mean, I'm talking to those who are afraid to vote for the basis. There's no danger of supporting the bill on the basis, because it's not the final decision. After the decision, this bill should be voted on as a basis in general. And if we vote as a basis, not as a whole, this bill will not be accepted. And so, once again, I emphasize, the danger is that one faction or another does not vote as a basis. The second logic emerges from the fact that the bill, in this case the order of the day, is adopted as a basis. And then it's discussed specifically: there's an MP of Ivanov, and he says, well, I'm proposing from a project that's accepted as a basis, that we should remove this bill or vice versa, and I'm proposing that this bill, which we've adopted as a basis, should include an additional bill. This is the right of every national MP. But it is his right to submit, and our right of national deputies to support or not to support this proposal. And the third. In order to unlock the trial, we have often been guided by logic, and when we adopt the bill of day order, and when we approve the judges, remember what we do. If there is a point to a particular person, this person is removed from the general project, the vote is that he does not object, and then the individual vote is that which causes the objection, and a specific decision is taken. If we are guided in this way, we will accept what most of the hall wants. If one part of the hall wants one and the other, we can work without the order of the day. And the last. I wouldn't exaggerate what we're talking about right now. Whether or not the order is established, you and I can work with you peacefully every sessional day, confirming or weekly, we have the order of the day approved for this week, or confirming each day the order of the day. So let us not give an extremely important meaning to what it is not worth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, as a result of the discussion. May I have your attention, please, because we have a break. The results of the discussion showed that there are two suggestions. The proposal, which was the last one we voted on, which I proposed, as it was suggested, to consider by the National MP Martinyuk and supported by others that we vote on the basis, then we go on every bill or issue. Well, dear colleagues, I'd like to give you a moment's attention. You don't like it, but please listen. If there is any objection, we look at it separately. That was the offer made by the people’s deputy Martinyuk. The National MP Vashtuk suggested that we vote on each bill. If we went that way, we'd have a day's work, but we'd have a legal, civilized way. Then I'm going to have the Apparatus prepare a list of the bills that are proposed for 106 issues to be distributed to you. I'd like to ask the factions and the directors of the Regulatory Committee to meet in the room at 15 hours, and we'll discuss the situation. And I think we'll vote after the break. The morning session is closed. Break till 4:00. Faction leaders, please meet in the negotiating room at 3 p.m.
