ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please register. A total of 415 national deputies registered. Please provide information on the faction registration. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputies Harmash Galina Fedorovna and Seminouk Valentina Petrovna. Let's join the Secretary-General of the United Nations in welcoming them, wishing them the best, the best. [[Applause]] Thank you, please sit down. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Today, the UN Secretary General Kofi Annan is in our country with his first official visit. [[Applause]] We are grateful to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for finding the opportunity to visit the highest legislative body in Ukraine. Mr. Secretary-General! On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I warmly welcome you on the occasion of your official visit to Ukraine. This long - awaited event in our country is of special importance. Your visit is seen as a testimony to the contribution of Ukraine, the co-founding State of the United Nations, to the work of a global organization and as an expression of support for democratic transformation processes in our country. For Ukraine, this is also an important opportunity to show a high appreciation for your active efforts in the Secretary-General’s office, rightly marked last year by the Nobel Peace Prize. I am confident that I will express the common view of all the people's deputies in Ukraine and of the guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Ukraine will support the main priorities of the United Nations and, above all, the maintenance of international peace and security, respect for human rights and the promotion of global economic and social development. As one of the founding nations of the United Nations, Ukraine has made a significant contribution throughout its membership of the organization. One evidence of this was the active activity of our country in the UN Security Council, particularly during its membership in this body in 2000-2001. I would like to assure you that Ukraine will continue to want to contribute to various activities of the organization, such as the Economic and Social Council, the Human Rights Commission, and other organs of the organization. I invite you, Mr. Secretary-General, to your address. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u2	Secretary - General of the United Nations. Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful for this warm welcome, for allowing me the privilege of addressing the Supreme Council. I am very pleased to visit Ukraine at this time and with my own eyes to see your country transform and begin to play its part in a peaceful and united Europe. Since the end of World War II, European countries have longed to rid themselves of past destructive nationalism in order to enter the future of responsible governance, respect for human rights, and harmony of relations on the continent. One decisive innovation in this search was the integration of individual countries into a single space of shared values and economic opportunities. Under this flag, despite its failure and imperfection, Europe has achieved great prosperity and stability. More important, it has demonstrated how, even after the most destructive war in human history, former enemies can work together for peace. Yet, for more than half a century, an outstanding project of European cooperation covered only a part of the continent — like an orchestra that was forced to play only with spirit instruments without strings. Since the end of the cold war, the situation has changed. From the Atlantic to Ural, from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea, Europe’s borders opened up in both a literal and a metaphorical sense. The people held back by the command economy and political bonds demanded change and won the restoration of their freedom. Ukraine became part of this liberation process. She took a conscious step by refusing to use nuclear weapons. It is reforming its economy, working hard to overcome the monopoly of the state and to set rules and regulations that will attract investment and enable citizens to demonstrate creative energy through incentives for private initiative. Ukraine is also working on changes in the functioning of state institutions so that the government represents the people and is accountable to them. You, Parliamentary, are the key to this transition period and are also among the most important overseers in this process. Clearly, the process of European integration will take a long time, and it is likely that there will be obstacles. We have already had the opportunity to see how difficult and painful this process can be. There are economic difficulties, social tensions, unexpected political consequences, and often deep internal disorientation as a result of changes in both national and individual consciousness. In the background of this process, which is moving forward relentlessly, it is vital that Europe remain loyal to its core values. One such value is democracy. The principles of democracy are universal. The right of every nation to participate in the administration of its state through participation in free and regular elections, as set out in article 21 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, does not distinguish any culture from others. All people appreciate their freedom of choice and feel the need to influence decisions that affect their lives. A growing understanding that a properly implemented democracy, properly embodied, is the best guarantee of the practice of free discussion, whereby different groups and individuals in society can learn from each other and reach agreement on the solution of common problems. Moreover, the facts show that nations with democratic governance rarely fight with one another. The democratic government can also prevent civil wars by using peaceful means to overcome internal strife. Today, one of mankind’s greatest challenges is the need to spread not only the principles but also the practices of democracy. Countries in which democracy and the rule of law have already become firmly established require efforts to preserve that achievement. They need to work together to help those countries where democracy is young or is only born, so that the peaceful transfer of power becomes a norm so that democracy cannot be undermined by subtle methods, because of the progressive approval of abuses such as falsified elections or governance by a majority that is little concerned with minority concerns. And in cases like Ukraine, where the transition to democracy and the progress of the market economy are taking place simultaneously, we need to recognize the danger of losing the support of the population by democracy because of the social cost of such a transition. This is not a reason to slow down the pace of reforms, this is a reason to take a more sensitive view of their social consequences. The second key value underlying European experience is pluralism. The diversity of cultures, religions and beliefs is one of the greatest advantages of mankind. Worldwide, more and more different nations are living side by side. Instead of being afraid of the so - called “other, ” individuals and societies can be enriched with new contacts and relationships. Europe’s great success can largely be counted against the contributions of new and diverse migrant communities from all over the world. Even at an individual level, whether we recognize it or not, we are the product of many traditions and influences, and our individuality is far from static. The societies that embrace pluralism and diversity have taken the most decisive steps to meet stability and prosperity. The Constitution that embodies the principle of equality, the laws that guarantee opportunities for all, the actions that help all groups to feel that they are part of society and that society belongs to them, are the essence of democratic pluralism. By contrast, societies that build walls between people, separating people from different spheres of knowledge and ideas that deprive minority civil rights or in any way limit the rights of other categories of people, ultimately deprive themselves of the advantage of the rich treasure of humanity. Pluralism is the face of a new Europe. In the age of openness of borders and information flows, the question is not whether societies should be pluralistic, but rather how best they can organize the co-existence of many different groups with competing views and interests. Parliamentarians must play a key role in this work. As representatives of the people, you characterize his desire for good governance, for transparent, effective government, and for commitment to democratic ideals. You yourself, as a multimanite group, can set an example of a peaceful dialogue and present in your debate all the voices of society, not just the part of it that is given power. You also have to play a role in the international arena. Increasingly, the challenges and threats of today -- from environmental degradation and the spread of disease to illicit drug trafficking and the proliferation of arms -- cross national borders. So you're not only an important link between local and national dimensions, but a bridge between local and global. You have the opportunity to raise awareness among your voters of the international dimensions of today’s problems, and I hope, with what the United Nations is doing to solve these problems. In the same way, you can prove that your voters are concerned about the wider world audience. You also play a key role in ratifying international treaties and in securing funding for international initiatives. Today I would like to express to you and to the Ukrainian people the gratitude of the world community for Ukraine's contribution to the peace-keeping operation. Without your decision, military contingents could not be deployed. We are deeply grateful for your support and for Ukraine’s contribution to this important area. Let me express the hope that the members of the Supreme Council will continue to support the active participation of Ukraine in peacemaking. Ukraine’s contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security is not limited to peacemaking. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Anatoly Zlenko is an "onionist" with an internship -- he worked in the UN system for almost 20 years. A few years ago, your country's representative was elected Head of the General Assembly, and I am pleased to see again among the members of the Supreme Council of His Majesty Gennady the Widow. [[Applause]] Last year alone, Ukraine’s unsustainable membership in the UN Security Council came to an end. And your professional and hardworking Permanent Representative Valery Kuczynski, who so skillfully represented Ukraine in the Security Council, is now with us. Only a few weeks ago, Ukraine was elected to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Your country also became a member of the United Nations Economic and Social Council for a three - year period that began in January 2002. During my visit to your beautiful capital, Kiev, I placed the wreaths in the grave of the Unknown Soldier and Memorial in Baba Jar. By doing so, I fully appreciated the great sacrifices that Ukraine suffered during World War II. This also explains why Ukraine gives so much importance to the maintenance of international peace and security. The Supreme Council is the place where the most important decisions are made for the country and for the world. I am sure that you will use your unique legislative powers at home and abroad wisely. I am also confident that Ukraine, as a cofounder of the United Nations, will contribute to this issue as national transformation processes deepen, as Europe moves towards the establishment of democracy and pluralism throughout the continent, and the world, with common sense, will try to meet the urgent challenges of our time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u3	Thank you very much to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Dear Mr. Secretary-General! The Supreme Council wishes you further success in your responsible, noble cause - to be at the head of the United Nations. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Please continue your work. I now have to accompany the Secretary-General. The meeting will be chaired by Vasilyev Hennaday Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations are scheduled for 45 minutes on Tuesday to announce requests, applications, and messages. Please identify who the factions authorize for the performances. Give your suggestions to the presidency. From the procedure, the word is given to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u5	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues and the presiding officer! Where is the order of the day session to be given to the national deputies for today’s plenary day? That's the first one. The other one. You and I have made a decision, as you may recall, to highlight the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of this convening, where it is clearly recorded that it should be organized, particularly by direct broadcasts of plenary sessions. I was drafting this decision, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Zinchenko. And the organization's supervision of its implementation is placed on the head of the Supreme Council. Please give an answer, how is the execution of this decree being organized now, and is the direct broadcast of our plenary sessions being carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u6	Who else is asking for a word from the procedure? The word is given to Philenk Vladimir Pilipovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u7	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear colleagues! With your permission, I also express my concern about the repeated violation of the Rules -- the unsettled agenda. I hope we get the answer to that question. With your permission, since I'm on my way up to the rostrum, I'm going to announce the address of the "Our Ukraine" faction in the Supreme Council. The "Our Ukraine" faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly expressed its concern over the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We believe and believe that the forces that have actually suffered a devastating defeat in the elections do not have the moral right to hold leadership positions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's disrespect for our constituents, for the popular will, for the universal democratic norms. That is why we did not recognize or acknowledge the existence of marginals according to all the signs of political powers in positions of leadership in the sole legislative body of Ukraine. Representatives of the administrative bureaucrat forces in the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been dismayed by the election of the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine through blackmail, threats and bribery, and are now attempting to carry out a new brutal action within the parliamentary walls -- to capture the same method of managing parliamentary committees. Again, it is planned to ignore the results of the Ukrainian people's choice, to exploit democratic values. The "Our Ukraine" faction once again claims that it will only take a comprehensive approach to reforming the power system, deepening economic and social transformations. By firmly opposed to all parliamentary processes being based on the distribution of portfolios, we consider the human resources issue only as a tool in the reform of the political system, as well as economic and social spheres. This can only be done through the signing by factions of the Treaty of Joint Action as programmes of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a further exit to a tripartite agreement between the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is the only way to achieve stability in both parliament and society. We are addressing all the political forces in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with an invitation to the faction heads to form a working group to prepare the Treaty of Joint Action in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for signature. Failure to accept our proposals from the forces that have taken over Parliament will be seen as contempt for the more than six million voters who have supported us. So we're going to do everything that depends on us to create a full balance of power and to ensure the implementation of our programming positions, which have an effective mechanism for reforming the economy, the political system, social security, and so on. Convinced that our position will be supported by the democratic forces of Ukrainian society." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u8	Thank you, Volodymyr Philipovich. The word is given to Mr. Aleksandro Aleksandrovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u9	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Deputies! I have been asked to announce a statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council on the situation surrounding the election of Parliament's leadership. And it also begins by saying that the faction of socialists has repeatedly expressed itself on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council for a new vocation, including with regard to the selection of the leaders of its structures. We continue to believe that the methods of moving forward in Parliament's leadership when voting for the Head of the Supreme Council and his deputies have nothing to do with the will of the electorate or with the principles of democracy and parliamentaryism. The proposals of the so-called initiative group on the distribution of the positions of committee leaders that you have received, and according to which most of them will depart from the "One Ukraine" faction, resemble the methodology of the famous Popandopoulos character in the division of the looted. Our view is that either these positions are distributed among the representatives of the factions of Our Ukraine, the Communists, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the Socialists, and then there will be at least an approximate balance of political forces in Parliament, or the leadership of all structures is exercised by those who do not know any argument other than criminal administration. In this case, the fullness of political responsibility for the effectiveness of the legislative work rests on those who have usurped power in both of its most important branches. Socialist MPs have been thoroughly familiar with the proposals of the faction "Our Ukraine," which Vladimir Philenko has just expressed, and share her views on the content and direction of Parliament's work, on the secondaryity of the portfolio division process before the mature transformations in the political system and are prepared to make an appropriate interfractional agreement on this issue. In our view, the signing of the proposed agreement between the President, the Parliament and the Government on improving the system of power is also appropriate. This would allow a period before the changes to the Constitution to come to grips with the political crisis and partially neutralize the effects of the usurpation of power, which in general led to a conflict between the interests of the vast majority of society and the clan-oligaric regime. We believe that such a treaty makes sense when it reflects the will of the three parties to change the system of power that will ensure the formation of the Government of the Supreme Council, the control of parliament over the power of power, it will provide for the strengthening of the role of the regions, the election of their leaders, the proportional system of elections to all levels of representative bodies. Such an agreement would help to prevent and prevent a political crisis in the future through the operation of special commissions, impeachment procedures and other mechanisms provided for in the Constitution. Clearly, the agreement would include an obligation to enact the relevant laws at this session and to amend the Constitution at the next session. Such a covenant is one of the forms of a social covenant. Failure to accept it by the authorities would mean ignoring the will of voters, recorded on March 31st. In this case, socialists leave the right, along with other opposition forces, to resort to other constitutional methods of engaging the entire population in the protection of their rights and freedoms. Implementing effective reforms, improving people's well-being, protecting democracy, human rights as a result of changing the system of government -- that remains the socialist line in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u10	Peter Mikolaiovich, please take your word for a statement from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u11	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! Once again, the Communist faction would like to express our point of view regarding the events that took place in the Supreme Council. After two weeks of speaking, the ruling regime managed to usurp the leadership of the legislative branch of power on May 28th. I ask you not to be offended by our colleagues, but in making political conclusions, we must be precise. This shameful and deplorable act, and more specifically political stealing, subtle forms, and mad ways of doing it, resembled a poor clown. And it would even be funny if it weren't so sad and offensive for our people and for our nation. That's why the opposition's initiative was to pay tribute to everything that's been going on here, to us, and more to the fact that democracy is virtually being destroyed in Ukraine. And if, after the parliamentary elections on March 31st, we said that, as a result of this dirty and sales campaign, the new composition of the parliamentary corps does not reflect the real position and interests of the political forces in society, then after the so-called elections, and in fact the staff assignments on May 28th in Parliament, we can say that the composition of the leadership of the Supreme Council does not reflect the representation of the political forces primarily here in the Supreme Council. So in our eyes, in the eyes of all the deluded people, there is an escalation of threats, intimidation, blackmail, and other negative phenomena. As we can see, Ukraine is not a modern European state, but it's some medieval "kingdom of curved mirrors," indeed, Ukrainian. And it was very insulting to hear the report that the world was moving in the direction of democracy, against the backdrop of that shameful phenomenon that we witnessed last Tuesday. But what happened happened. As one depraved politician, whose name we will not even mention, has now been cursed by the people, and who, with his filthy hands, has also done everything in order for the last parliamentary events to take place, we have what we have. In these difficult circumstances, however, the Company’s faction believes that everything is not yet lost. Having been given a mandate of high confidence by more than 5 million voters and feeling its historical responsibility for the fate of our own people and the future of our nation, the Communist MPs will reaffirm their pre-election commitments and readiness for constructive legislative action. We propose to resolve the main issue today that has a bearing on the balance of the already internal political forces in the Supreme Council. And it's clear that this proposal by the Communist faction is preventing all of the problems that we're going to face if we put beyond the principle a position on the distribution of committees between the four factions. In view of the fact that the Conciliation Council is unable to gather, such as our attitude, our leaders, the elected so - called Supreme Council leadership, all other consultations on the distribution of committees should be conducted in the form of six faction leaders, and with the participation of six faction leaders to solve the problem. With regard to the future of our Ukraine and with regard to power. Yes, indeed, we can make a treaty, but we must understand with you that this authority will go into the making of a so-called treaty, just to take away everything that affects their powers personally, and to delay the time when only one will take place in various forms with regard to specific officials who hold positions. So I think we can sign any kind of agreement, but today we need to understand that this power must be fought by raising the people to fight for their own rights and for our own freedom, or we will go right to the Asian or African model of the state that Ukraine is leading to today's regime. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u12	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. From the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko will be the leader of the Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko faction. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u13	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! I'd like to make a statement from three political parties: Fatherland, the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party and the Ukrainian Republican Party Council. I've been entrusted with this. "Dear People's Deputies! Whenever people believed politicians, came to the elections on March 31st, and gave their votes to all who were sitting in this room. But because of what is happening in Parliament today, we are sowing again in their hearts of discouragement. Democracy in Ukraine is, unfortunately, defeated again. The democratic composition of Parliament is cheap in front of the eyes. If we started working with a standing, self-sufficient majority in 230 votes, the last vote clearly showed that most of us are no longer in the democratic forces. Our faction has undergone all the trials. No human has come out of our faction; we have not voted in favour of the people who are looting Ukraine today. We did not give in to pressure, blackmail, provocation, because they buy those who sell themselves and blackmail those who fear. And today we're not going to get ourselves involved in a cheap fight for parliamentary cabinets, hundreds, tens and special-purpose cars. Today we come out of this humiliating process of dividing empty portfolios. We're going to the regions to talk about what's going on in Parliament today. Let's talk about the majority that was created in this room by pressure and blackmail -- that's not the majority that they voted for, that they voted for. Not 226 mandates have been exhausted for Lithuania, and tens of millions of votes devoted to truth, democracy, justice should govern the coming state, and we will do our utmost not to let those who believe us be completely discouraged. Dear National Deputies! Our faction refers to all the forces of the democratic coalition -- the factions of our Ukraine, the Communist Party and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and to all the deputies who have not yet lost their honour and dignity. We need to make clear efforts with you, and we suggest: Stop immediately any negotiations with the power block on the distribution of the Supreme Council committees. To take part in this disgraceful procedure means to act on the national will and amnesty the authority that has exercised over Parliament and the people's deputies all this abuse; On the basis of a coalition of opposition forces in Parliament, create a real body of peoples, a Council of Peoples Trust, whose composition would reflect honestly the results of parliamentary elections. The People's Council should lead the movement for real socio-economic and political transformations, initiate joint meetings of the factions of the democratic coalition to work on a joint programme, create an opposition coalition government of popular trust and launch a broad public discussion of the programmes that will be implemented after the coming into power of the united democratic forces; On behalf of the democratic coalition in the Supreme Council, ask the people of Ukraine to explain the political situation that has arisen, to give people knowledge of how to act in defense of their lives, to call for action that will speed up Ukraine's liberation from aberration, lawlessness and destruction. I'm talking to the factions of our Ukraine, the Communist Party and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and I'm asking you to support these proposals, to stop the fruitless cooperation with the authorities and together, to work together. I can assure you that our faction is starting to put this program into practice." Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u14	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrically. From the two factions -- "The One Ukraine" and the faction of the Social Democratic Party -- there will be Karpov. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u15	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues, sometimes it is especially interesting to look at the course of events using a historical approach, from the point of view of historical materialism. So I'm going to stop at four problems: elections and their results; the work of the Preparatory Deputies Group; the beginning of work and our proposals. [[rating]] [[offers and positions]] [[forming governing bodies]] As for the results of the elections, we witnessed two approaches to their assessment. Some claimed to be winners, forgetting that the winners were the parties and the blocks that overcame the 4 percent barrier. Among them were the dozers -- it's true. On the other hand, our Law on the Election of People's Deputies provides for a proportionally major electoral system. And only half of the deputies were elected by a proportional scheme. In the first approach, no consideration was given to major MPs, trying to define them as second-rate. The winners offered this approach: our prime minister, 17 governors, the governing body of the Supreme Council. Let's model the situation. With these proposals, people with the appropriate number of votes in the Supreme Council come to the President and offer him what I said. He's absolutely independent of who he is and how he is, he's legitimately asking, well, you're taking the government, and how many deputies do you have in the Supreme Council to ensure the legislative work of this government? Where is the majority without which no civilized country in the world is forming a government, not a coalition that has more than 50 percent of the votes? There is no such thing, but there is only desire. At the beginning of the work of the Preparatory Deputy Group, we proposed the creation of 27 committees plus a Special Committee of Control on Privatization, as well as an algorithm for the distribution of posts that were intended for proportionality and ball, for nominal voting. At a meeting of the Preparatory Group, apart from the faction of Communists, virtually no one spoke against the roll call. At the same time, discussions began about a joint agreement that no one had ever seen before. Beginning of the work of the Supreme Council. Voting on the number of committees. Journalists call it laughter and tears. When they asked those who did not vote for that amount, and why did you not actually vote, the answer was one: Although I will not eat, I am so oversucked that I will not give it to them. They say, "Yes, I'm sorry, you won't get it." Proposals for secret ballots when choosing the leadership of the Supreme Council. Arguments: honesty, transparency, pressure protection. But we actually included the spikeriad by voting for a secret ballot, and today it's even been called a clown. It takes 10 seconds to vote in the Council mode, for the secret ballot of the packets to be 4.5-5 hours. That's the first one. The other one. When I was asked a question, I answered: “There will be a congregation of ballot papers. Was he? Of course I was. And they even got to cynicism when they're on TV and they say, "And we've given our fair share in the presence of those who understand." Where is the Constitution, excuse me, transparency, honesty? [[Applause]] . On the basis of this honesty, some factions were expelled. A legitimate question arises: How did they learn the names of these people in secret vote? Excuse me, Your Honor, this is called harmony of words and deeds! By expelling them, they declared that they had expelled those who had not justified the confidence of the electorate and proved unworthy of that trust. It's a small package. What were the suggestions? Not making a little package, but making a general package was our approach. They put out a little package and they said, first we're going to win, then we're going to divide it any way we want. And they made it happen all the time. In no packet of four factions, there were representatives of Ukraine and Social Democrats. It's about proportionality, honesty and transparency. On our part, a package was offered at the time, where the largest factions were presented. The agreement for joint action came back, began to be discussed, but as soon as agreed, demands came back up and the plank came up again. Suggestions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Six minutes, respectable colleagues, regulations, and considering that all speakers have chosen after one minute, I will speak for eight minutes. Proposals for a small package are the election of the Supreme Council leadership. After the fight, they started waving their fists. Proposals for committee leadership were made only by representatives of four factions. They voted failure, the cards don't work. You know what interferes with a good dancer or a bad dancer. The only sober assessment was in the Supreme Council on this point, and I quote it close to the text: "I would like us to share the responsibility of what happened yesterday from the four opposition forces. Because you and I had a chance for two weeks, and we have to admit it. Our part of the responsibility is on our shoulders. Our glazing, our quarrels, our disagreements, our two-plan policies, when they tried to take action on several fronts, led to the fact that in these two weeks the authorities were created artificially or non-artificially." It was really the only man from the opposition, and this time it turned out to be a woman. After all these defeats, what do we have? I'm back on the offer. Let's go back to the points, let's go back to the proportions, let's go back to the new historical chance. You know, here's what I want to remind you of. In the Middle Ages, there was a publisher of Balhorn, and the term "balhorned" came up. So I think these proposals today are "balgonization." What's the point of that? He went over the letter and wrote, "Creating reissued and completed." What was new? According to critics, instead of a chicken with eggs, he painted on the front page of the rooster, but also with eggs. Our proposals are, we've made them, they predict proportionality, let's talk and let's make decisions. Let us make a decision that then each of us “will not be painfully painful in the lost time and so that everyone can then say: all life and all strength will be given to the most beautiful in the world - the struggle for the liberation of mankind”. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u16	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear National Deputies! I would ask that we follow the rules. Dear National Deputies! The statement, statements from the factions are made. We are continuing our consideration of the issues that have been identified in the period leading up to the creation of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely the issue of the election of heads and the first deputies of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! There is a need to exchange ideas with the procedure. Please sign up. Five minutes. Please point it on the board. National MP Mokchan, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u17	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u18	People's MP Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u19	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The Viktor Yuschenka faction "Our Ukraine", the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! We've just become witnesses not of the faction, but of the report of the newly formed majority, of course, of the majority on the verge, but most of it -- I'll allow myself to make a comparison that the reporter used -- which is the role of the chicken that everyone is afraid of, and she doesn't even know what a big gray dog is behind him. So this isn't the right position for this new-hot majority. Today, some package, according to its authors, including only a self-proclaimed initiative group, is a proportional package. So, respectable "proportions" colleagues, meals from the "Eats" table are edible, and so I want to say that my last name is in this package, but I'm asking you to continue this honor without my knowledge not to show. I'm claiming to withdraw my candidacy from this package. Consequently, the package cannot be put to a vote because it is largely incomplete. That's why I'm making an offer. If you want to talk, not insult and not humiliate, let's make a deal, take a break for one or two days, sit down and talk. And then we agree on a serious, real proportion that allows the Supreme Council to work, not to engage in insults and politics, sorry, self - indulgence and selfishness. There will be no constructive work on such a course. So my proposal is a break and a serious negotiation, not a self-proposal initiative group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u20	Thank you. Please follow the rules. National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Excuse me, please. Turkinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u21	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Yulia Tymoshenko's block, Fatherland's Party. Dear colleagues! I want to address the faction of Ukraine. Colleagues! When preparing speakers, I ask you to remember that you are compromising not only your faction but also the entire Supreme Council. Now I want to address the representatives of the four factions: "Our Ukraine," the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Socialists and the Communists. There is a request not to waste time but to delegate our representatives to discuss the proposals put forward by our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u22	Thank you. National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u23	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. Please give the word to Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u24	People's Deputy Frost. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u25	It's a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues! After the last reporter, I mean the representative of "the only Ukraine," I needed to make a few comments. Today, the media, first on television, purposefully engages in the embellishment of the Supreme Council. And all of this is done in contrast. Look, this policy that the President and the Cabinet of Ministers are carrying out is a big policy, and these are fighting for the portfolios. I would like to stress once again that we are not fighting for any portfolios, we are fighting for a change in the political system, and we will use all of the methods provided for in the Constitution, in the laws and in the Rules of the Supreme Council. And the offer that the leader of the initiative group just made, it just reminds us of that horse, I'm sorry, the cock and eggs that Alexander Karpov was talking about so beautifully here. And you don't have to fool people by making these kinds of proposals. If you are capable of taking responsibility, accept and answer. We will work constructively in Parliament, we will not block Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u26	Thank you. National MP Anastassiev, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u27	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u28	National Deputy Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u29	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Valentin Alekseyevich. Dear colleagues! I feel like we can't hear each other when we're in the same room. At the very beginning of the session, after we registered and a meeting of the Supreme Council was officially opened, my colleagues raised questions about the order of today's session. It makes sense that when a sitting is open, we take the order of the day and start working. Where is he? We didn't hear where he was. That's the first one. The other one. This is a proposal made today by our faction leader, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, that negotiations should take the form of leaders of six factions, not the incomplete and self - called Conciliation Council. So I suggest we go back to the six faction leaders' negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u30	Thank you. National Deputy of Ukraine Medvedchuk, Democratic Social Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u31	Ukrainian national deputy (mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (United States). Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It is a pleasure to hear very sober thoughts about the seriousness of the negotiations, about the meeting of representatives of the six factions, and about what needs to be arranged. Perhaps, as an argument for such proposals, the draft decision that was given in the hall worked. Yes, indeed, we have to make a deal. Although, according to the Rules, the draft decree has been introduced and is under consideration in the matter that we are now hearing, the election of committee heads and their first interlocutors. But given that we have always treated everyone with great respect and respect without exception the colleagues elected by the Ukrainian people to Parliament, I suggest you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, gather the factions leaders, hold meetings of the Conciliation Council and agree on whether there are principles on which we can agree, rather than simply declare a recess, as the proposal said, on Tuesday. Because if this proposal is voted out, it is not excluded that the next Tuesday we will come up with the same serious proposals that we have come up with today. Either we agree and understand that we can agree, or we work in full compliance with the Rules and consider the draft decree that has been given. That's what our faction thinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u32	Thank you. Ukrainian National Deputy Sharov of the "One Ukraine" faction, and we will conclude the speeches on procedural issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u33	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you, Your Honor. "Trouble Ukraine", "For the One Ukraine!".. Please pass the word to Sergey Tihypka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u34	National Deputy Sergey Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u35	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, good afternoon, Mr. Head! "Trouble Ukraine," block "For the One Ukraine!".. I have this proposal: before we discuss a draft decision that has already been given to the people's deputies, I would ask that the Chief of the Supreme Council gather the faction leaders and we agree on a break and on the work that we will be doing during this break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Several motions were made by deputies to withdraw their nominations from the list, including Hennadia Josephovich Udovenko. We'll probably take that into account. Dear National Deputies! There were other suggestions that we would have to take a break and arrange for the factions' leaders to have an algorithm about what method we're going to use to consider committee formation in order to figure out how much time it takes to do that. In this regard, honourable national deputies, I propose a break of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes, and in 20 minutes I will meet the faction leaders in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-04-m0.u37	Dear National Deputies! Please take up jobs. Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. Let me make an announcement. First. The broadcast of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes place in full compliance with the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first radio channel. The other one. Dear National Deputies! There was a meeting of the leaders of the MP factions. The work, I have to tell you, was fruitful and constructive, reached certain agreements, found the necessary compromises. At the unanimous invitation of the leaders of the MP factions, we will recess the session until tomorrow until 12 o’clock in the morning for 30 minutes. At 12: 45 a.m., there will be a meeting of a working group that agrees with the faction leaders. I'm asking the task force to meet in the hall across the hall to get started, and tomorrow we're going to bring a joint opinion to your consideration of 12 hours and 30 minutes. The faction leaders will meet at 16 hours. Dear National Deputies! By 2 p.m., there's a farewell to Boris Sharvark in the Philharmonic. I think you can use this time to say goodbye to an outstanding culture master. Thank you. Until tomorrow.
