ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system. There were 376 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Ladies and gentlemen, there are several messages. Today, the delegation of the People’s Republic of China, headed by the People’s Political Advisory Council of the People’s Republic of China, arrives in Ukraine with an official visit. At 3:30 p.m., there will be a meeting in the Conference Room of the Supreme Council at which the factions are invited to take place, as well as members of the Temporary Presidency. And another message. The preparatory parliamentary group considered the issue of the unsatisfying state of funding of the Supreme Council and made a decision. This decision was addressed to Prime Minister Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich of Ukraine. We have the answer and the commission to provide 100 percent funding to the Supreme Council for the current period of the year. Dear National Deputies! There is a request to give the word to Boris Ilchi Iliynik concerning the days of Shevchenk. I want to consult and give this opportunity to Boris Illich. If there's no objection, please, Boris Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u2	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Your Honor, my dear colleagues! May 22 is a special day for Ukraine, 141 years ago, Shevchenko returned to his native Ukraine and settled forever on the mountain of Canoe and in our hearts. I'd like to honor this day by vowing once again that we will do the same in these days when we choose our leadership so that we can look into each other's eyes with the thought that "we walked honestly, we have no grain of lies behind us." That is, so that there is no game and no dark wing over our actions in these very days. Dear friends, please honor this day and think about what we should do in our sovereign Ukraine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u3	Thank you, Boris Illich. A moment of reverential memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u4	Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, for this reason, there is also the request of several national deputies to speak. If there is no objection, the word is given to Lukyanek Levek Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u5	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Dear National Deputies! We've been fighting with each other since the 14th, and we can't solve the very important problem of the structure of the Supreme Council. From the work that we're seeing from each other, it's clear to me that the main reason why we can't structure ourselves is in our President Leonida Kuchmi. So I'm sorry he's not here, but I'm gonna go talk to him here. Mr. President of Ukraine! Last August, from the high court of the Third World Ukrainian Forum, I asked you to resign. You didn't do it. Oh, I'm sorry. The Ukrainian people have a good soul, and he would forgive you all your transgressions: live in your free will, God with you. But you stayed in office. And now that the people have chosen a new parliament, and they should quickly structure themselves and start an important legislative work, you have appeared on the Ukrainian political arena as a huge destructive force. Look what you've been doing: for over a month, your administration and the heads of the district administration have been taking the entrepreneurs' throats and dragging them to the faction of "The One Ukraine." Many entrepreneurs have tried and have tried to do their business honestly. They are willing to pay their taxes honestly, but they would like to walk without their vests, and they would like to have the opportunity to walk without fear in the city park with their children. By your insatiable extortion, you force them to break the law and then blackmail them into your faction. The Ukrainian political tradition of honest and open competition, in fact, you have replaced the gang's methods of coercion, intimidation, the threat of destroying the entire business, the entire family wealth and peace and life itself. In the election, the people refused to trust your parties. And what I've heard most often during the election campaign in a dozen areas of Ukraine from different categories of citizens is the curse on your address and the words "Kuchma impeachment." You've been raping business MPs who have come to the Supreme Council in major districts for a month now, driving them to your faction. If it hadn't been for your compulsion, the Marjorie deputies would have split up in factions according to their political and business preferences, and there wouldn't have been the wild tension in which the Supreme Council has been throbbing since May 14th. It is your fault that Parliament is still unable to structure itself and proceed to the creation of laws. Last August, I asked you to resign. Now I ask you again: Step away from the Supreme Council, retire, the people will forgive you all, and I will not demand your punishment, but give us, the people's deputies, the opportunity to return to normal human relationships and get on with it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u6	Thank you, Levek Grigorovich, but you have asked the provisional Bureau to speak on the Chevchenkov days, and we have not made a decision to make a political statement from the faction. Ladies and gentlemen, we must determine. The question of the agenda is now being considered on the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday, we took a break twice to allow factions to work and hold additional consultations, negotiations, find out the differences that exist, and come to a joint decision on the nomination. I would like to report that no draft decision has yet been registered with the nominations for election to the leadership of the Supreme Council. So I would like to consult you and find out how the discussion is going. The factions’ leaders at their morning meeting made such a decision to allow further negotiations to be held for the final decision on the nomination. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday we decided to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the faction leaders' negotiations. To this end, the chairman of the Preparatory Group, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, was present at these negotiations. And yesterday and this morning, an agreement was reached to re-announce the break for today and to allow the final agreement to be signed and signed by the leader of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko. So let's consult, let's take five minutes to speak out of factions, and let's give each faction a chance to speak out on this. Please sign up. Light up, please. From the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the word is given to the national MP Melniczuk. Prepare Lukyanka from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u7	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Chairman, please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u8	Turn on Alexander Alexandrus ’ microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u9	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Your Honor! Deputies! If a decision is made to discuss the situation, some suggestions for further consultations should be given at least five minutes to express their opinion. If this time is set for such an offer, consider that it has arrived. But in a minute, you can't convince people of anything. And one more detail. Note that we actually spent eight days, except on weekends, on breaks. And when the matter is essentially discussed, it turns out that it takes time to save and give three minutes to express your thoughts. Anyone who has not tried to do so should try to convince someone of something in three minutes. So there's going to be an offer like that. Let us follow the Rules when discussing particularly important issues, such as the formation of the leadership of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u10	Thank you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, but it was a joint decision by the faction leaders, and you also took part in that meeting. The word is given to the national deputy Lukyanka, a faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. To prepare for the silence, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u12	Turn on Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenka’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u13	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor". I address you first, Mr. Konovaluk. The MP has the right to take the floor and say what he thinks is necessary. And you have no responsibility, and you have more responsibility to comment on the MP’s opinion and correct his opinion. Now essentially. Dear fellow national MPs! I'm going back to yesterday's offer one more time. We obviously have no right to accuse the current active Presidency, but we must realize that in this way the organization of the work of the Supreme Council is impossible. That's why we're making a draft decision, asking to discuss it and vote tomorrow to elect the Presidency as faction leaders. And let them take on the responsibility of speeding up negotiations, identifying and taking public responsibility before Ukraine, the Ukrainian people for the work of the Supreme Council. It's our common mistake, and we have to admit it. I apologize to those who are sitting in the Presidency, and I understand that you are not guilty here. The other one. We believe that the Supreme Council, if there is no package today, has no right to waste time. We have proposals, bills that we can consider in the first reading. So let us consult those who need to consult, and we will plan to work on draft laws in the first reading. [[I'm addressing today's current presidency.]] I understand that we cannot accept it in the second reading and in general, because there is an appropriate sign by the Head of the Supreme Council. Third. I want the Bureau to answer who took responsibility for tomorrow's package offer. [[specifically, personal block "Our Ukraine," block "For the One Ukraine!"]] Who? Give me a specific name. So we know and know all of Ukraine. And finally, the last. If we can't organize a job, though you can organize tours of Kiev for newly elected deputies, tours of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u14	The word is given to the people's MP, the faction of "Our Ukraine." Prepare Deputy Doroguntsov, faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u15	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Our Ukraine faction, Victor Yushchenka's block. Your Honor! Dear colleagues! On this important, historic and sacred day for the Ukrainians, I turn to one person who has to verify his own life with the wills of our national genius, Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk, and make a very important and historic gesture for our lives. He must use ultimatums that he has been using for several days, and today he also has an ultimatum removed. I'm talking to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. We can unlock all the questions if this candidate agrees to the neutral one that is possible and is in our session room. Taking this opportunity, I appeal to all the deputies to conduct a very important campaign of honoring Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. At 12 o’clock, the bus leaves for Caneva. I invite everyone to participate in honoring our national genius. Keep going. Shewchenk National Reserve in a terrible state. I'd like to think about it, and when we make a budget, we'll anticipate all the necessary funds for the construction of the Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk Church and for the reconstruction and setting up of the Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk Reserve in Canoe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u16	The word is given to the National Deputy of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Next up is the national deputy Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u17	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please give the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka, director of the Ukrainian Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u18	Turn on the microphone by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u19	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The problem we are facing right now is complex and, to some extent, is the result of an election campaign. As it's been going on, we all know, and the estimates are certain. The treaty today is not discussed during the faction leaders ’ consultations. We understand that whatever arguments are being put forward today or not, the main issue is certain arrangements for the leadership of the Supreme Council. Now the problem is what will be the deal between the factions of Ukraine and our Ukraine. They're practically both in negotiations right now, and if they end up with some result, it'll be clear that the leadership issue will be resolved quickly. As far as the Bureau is concerned. I would like to ask anyway: in this case, if we vote again, let's say, a new leadership, our new temporary working presidency, none of this will change. And the last. I'm talking to the media. Dear colleagues! We work with you here together, and how the public today understands the processes that are taking place in the Supreme Council also depends on a lot. I have one request for you, with whom we Communists always turn, to be objectively enlightened. Because some of the people's deputies, by providing information, are simply twisting the facts or deliberately launching some kind of duck to distract them from the serious problems that the Supreme Council is solving today. She decides the outcome of the March 31st election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u20	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. The word is given to the national deputy of Shevchuk by the faction "the only Ukraine". Please. Prepare a representative of the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, Victor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u21	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. It's the only Ukrainian faction. I have to make a comment to the chairman, in this case the representative of the "One Ukraine" faction, on my own choice of who to give the question and who not to give the word to. As a result, we will not have the concerted work that we want, because even the Shevchenkov days some political forces are trying to exploit in their purely corporate interests. That's the first time. Secondly, we are witnessing the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko again making proposals that were rejected by the session. The proposals for a new composition of the Bureau are meant. Once again, this will not help solve the most important issue: the election of the Chief of the Supreme Council. So the "One Ukraine" faction proposes to stop the debate, take a break for consultations. The work is ongoing. Sooner or later it will be finished, we want it to be done as soon as possible. And we are ready to expect proposals from other subjects in the negotiation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u22	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u23	National Deputy of Ukraine (Balgato-mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (United States). Thank you. Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind all the deputies that we have adopted a Supreme Council decision on the agenda for the resolution of organizational matters. And as rightly noted by the chairman at the beginning of today’s session, the issue of the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its First Deputy and Deputy, continues to be considered. And all other issues cannot be addressed without amendment to the above-mentioned Supreme Council decree. If there are other proposals from MPs, they should make draft regulations, include them in the agenda, and only then can they be considered. What's more, I think, Mr. Chairman, that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk was to inform the hall that at 9:30 a.m., there were six factions sitting, where it was decided that the two largest factions -- "The One Ukraine" and "Our Ukraine" -- were continuing negotiations on the reconciliation of the runoff package. The rest of the factions, with the exception of one who held back, supported the proposal to give them time - to - time until 10 a.m. tomorrow. So I think we shouldn't go beyond these arrangements, and I'm asking you to call a break by 10 a.m. tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u24	Thank you, Victor Volodymyrovich, for the right and constructive offer. Before I give my word for information to the head of the Preparatory MP, a member of the interim presidency of Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, I would like to answer your question, distinguished national deputy Matvienko. In 1998, we chose the leadership of the Supreme Council for almost two months, and it was not without your participation. This is the first time. Secondly, it was the joint position of the leaders of the six political factions. The two largest factions are now looking to reach an agreement that would satisfy everyone and a proposal has been made to elect the leadership of the Supreme Council. That's why your observation is not accepted, and it's not a temporary Presidency problem, it's an agreement and a consultation between faction leaders. There was a request from the leader of the "Our Ukraine" faction Victor Andryovich Yushchenka to give him his word. Please, Victor Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u25	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! I would like to explain how we see the situation in the position of the "Our Ukraine" bloc on the election of the leaders of the Supreme Council. The election's over. There are political results of these elections. Six days ago, three political powers began to claim the position of Speaker of the Supreme Council: the Communist Party, well, I wanted to call our Ukraine third, but I say, "Our Ukraine" and "The only Ukraine." Our political reasoning on this is something like this. Why do Communists claim to be the key force of 19 percent of voters? It seems to us that this is ignoring the political results of the elections. Why does the political power of today’s prime minister of Ukraine and the established government claim to be the speaker of the Supreme Council? According to the polls, this force gained 12 percent of electoral sympathy. In our view, such efforts are not correct and are not adequate to the consequences of political elections. So six days ago, the block of "Our Ukraine" came out of the position that we have the political basis and the moral right to apply from our bloc for this high office. Four parliamentary days have passed, and the situation is developing in a stalemate. I'm sorry, but someone has to compromise. We were the first to say that we were ready to give up our position as speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament on condition that we would jointly sign a formal document. The election of the Head of the Supreme Council is not arithmetic. This should be considered in the complex. Our faction prepared a draft agreement that should regulate systemic, joint action, and we said we were ready to move away from our ambitions on the condition that the political parties made a political decision on signing this agreement. This deal, dear friends, is a compromise for everyone. We are addressing all sides of the political process. This deal is already on the table today. And within it, dear friends, if we want to find a solution, let's look for compromise. We're sitting at the table. negotiations and an active political dialogue. We invite you to do that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u26	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. The information is given to Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, a member of the interim Presidency.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u27	Member of the Temporary Presidency of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! In principle, you've heard about what's going on in the faction leaders' negotiations, because the factions, speaking, have informed us about it. And yesterday and today, even at night, negotiations were well known. To the extent that they were fruitful, it is possible to judge from the fact that today, at our next meeting of the six, representatives of the two largest factions turned to their colleagues, heads of other factions, to give them the opportunity to communicate with one another in a fruitful manner today, because they found that they could understand from the information some positive shifts. [[and we agreed today before the opening of the plenary meeting to meet to find out what suggestions to go to the session hall]] The vast majority, except as has already been said, of one faction that survived, eventually came together on this point. [[Because it was proposed to announce the break today until 16 p.m., it was Alexander Alexander Alexander Frost's proposal.]] Since there is a desire for the two major factions to agree, other factions have agreed to come to you with an invitation to announce a recess in this meeting by 10 a.m. tomorrow morning. That was the will of faction leaders. And we agreed that there would be negotiations today with a view to tomorrow’s outcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u28	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The words are requested by the leader of the "One Ukraine" faction, Litwin Vladimir Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u29	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! First, one comment from the "One Ukraine" faction. We understand that there are choices and there are results. Elections take place as is the Ukrainian Law on Elections of National Deputies. And then all the national MPs are equal, and I don't think there's any reason to divide them into first-class and secondary. Now, in fact, it's a matter of fact. The faction of "The One Ukraine" has been speaking out for cooperation and for necessary, intelligent compromises. On one condition, however, honourable national deputies that when agreements are reached, within an hour they do not change or make other warnings that invalidate the outcome. Because that's the way to nowhere. One second. The "One Ukraine" faction proposed its package, voted for it. And with faction leaders, it was agreed that each faction would put out its own package. We propose not to block the work, so that those factions that didn't offer their package, put this package in, we vote and move on. I would like to emphasize once again that there is no blockade on the work of Parliament on the part of the faction of Ukraine. We're ready to cooperate, to consider any candidates. On one condition, however, honorable national MPs do not try to impose the will of the faction today. There's a faction position. If she defines another line, then we'll let her know, and we'll run the line that the faction stands for. By means of pressure, blackmail, and the use of names, I don’t think you’ll get anything. This is our hard, principled position that will last forever. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I give you my word for Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u31	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Mr. Konovaluk! I want to come to you again with a proposal I've been making for the first time. I respect you and the Presidency and I have asked you not to comment on the statements made by the deputies. Instead of concluding, you continue to comment, which means that you do not know your credentials and functions and that you cannot hold meetings. It's about spikeriads. I really had a bearing on the 1998 spikeriad just like you, and who was the lead director of this spikeriad, you know, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. But I've come to the conclusion that today, I know that this person is not capable and does not have the right to take this position, but that he has more influence on the Supreme Council, and you continue to serve this person, and in the meantime you're breaking all interests and putting them in the service of Kuchma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u32	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I might not have said a word to you, because there was no reason for that. But you've expressed your opinion and your position, and I'm asking not only you, but other people's deputies to act more properly and appreciate the work of the interim Presidency, because it is chosen by the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And there's a decision by the faction leaders who have made a proposal for further negotiations and consultations to address the issue of choosing the leadership of the Supreme Council. The last word is given to Alexander Alexander Frost, and we will. [[The Sound in the Hall]] It's a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u33	Dear fellow MPs! I still hope that's not the last word in the Supreme Council's rostrum, and I don't want to take advantage of the right that used to be worded something like this: We need to communicate in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u34	I asked for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u35	Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u36	I asked to use the right speech to explain to people why the negotiation process was so difficult. Volodimir Mikhailovich spoke correctly about the preparation of a treaty between the deputies, based on the version developed by "The One Ukraine". And Victor Andriyovich was talking about a document from "Our Ukraine." And they're the opposite. I would also like to use this time to address, first of all, the representatives of our Ukraine. Of course, it will depend on you how the fate of future parliamentary leadership and, indeed, the development of democracy in Ukraine will be resolved. If you agree to the terms and conditions of those political chapters of the treaty that are proposed by "the only Ukraine," and it is meant to implement the results of the referendum, there will be nothing left of the intention to democratize social life or of the chapters that relate to economic and social policy, because power will be what it is today. And everyone understands that today the social contract is not being reached here. And you can't compromise on the question because we don't have a secret vote, that all of these things are controlled things, and everyone understands that the firm position of the "One Ukraine" faction isn't explained by their beliefs as much as the dependency that they have today. Depending on the executive power, the prosecutor’s office, the police, and other state institutions that are called upon to exercise state powers, they are also used in a political struggle that is essentially the usurpation of power. So that's the difficulty. And when you work on this treaty between the two factions, consider whether you will lose all the prospects you have gained in such heavy battalions. Be restrained in this regard. And so that none of you will ever regret and say, "Lord, you must live at such a time of sale and treachery." You can't let that happen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-22-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, almost all of the factions have spoken about the proposal that came from the leaders of the two largest factions -- "One Ukraine" and "Our Ukraine" -- about the announcement in the Supreme Council's work by 10 a.m. tomorrow. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Who would like a recess to be announced in the work of the Supreme Council by 10 a.m. tomorrow, please vote. "For" - 295. The factions, please show me. Applying the Standard of Article 3.1. 3 In the plenary session of the Supreme Council, I announce a recess until 10 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you.
