ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! I'd like you to sit down and prepare for registration. Please sit down. Turn on the "Race" system. Get ready to register. Let's register. There are 356 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Humenjuk Oleg Ivanovich and Simonov Vladimir Dmitrovic. Let us welcome them, wish them happiness, health, success, and all the best. [[Applause]] The speaker will be here in half an hour, 40 minutes. He's all right. He's got a plan for an official meeting. In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I inform you that the People's Choice Group is also authorized to represent the national deputy of Ukraine Kirill's Viktor Dmitrovic. In accordance with the regulations of Friday, we discuss the order of the day’s session. You have a list of the questions that are proposed for consideration. There are no parliamentary requests to this day, but since we will not have plenary sessions for nearly two weeks, I will announce them if there is no objection. Is there no objection? Okay. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Leonidas Czernovecki - to the President of Ukraine regarding illegal congregations of business subjects. First of all, you and I have to vote for support, then for direction. Turn on the "Race" system. We vote in favour of the President's request. "To" - 91. The decision is not taken. Stanislawa Phydenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the prolonged absence of hot water supplies from the city of Lucca. We're voting on the direction. It's a very important question. "To" - 164. Decision taken. Alexander Masenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Justice’s appeal to the inhabitants of the town of Hadjac Poltavian region. We're voting for directions. "To" - 164. Decision taken. The Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve a list of documents and groups of goods that are protected by a holographic protective element. [[Tsuk, Tsakchenko, Tihypko, Kalinchuk, Aloshin and others]] We're voting for directions. "To" - 178. Decision taken. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the cardiological centre of the district clinic and the surgical department of the Zakarpat district children's hospital. [[Balog, Ivancho, and others]] We're voting for directions. "To" - 208. Decision taken. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of gas supplies for rural areas in 2002. [[Kirilchuk, Zubov, Taran]] Vote. "For" - 167. Decision taken. Michael Dobkin, Minister of Health of Ukraine, in view of his lack of response to the appeal regarding measures taken to prevent tuberculosis in the Redwater region of Kharkiv. Vote. "For" - 177. Decision taken. Leonidas Czernovecki, Minister of Interior of Ukraine and Minister of Health of Ukraine, on health problems. Let us vote so that they may know. "For" - 142. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of passenger transport arrangements in the city of Kirovograd. We're voting on the direction. "For" - 155. Decision taken. Alexander Masenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of the road accident investigation, which resulted in the death of a resident of the village of Nova Sanjara Poltava. Vote. "For" - 151. Decision taken. Ivan Tomić is with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the physical injury to the head of the farm of the village of Stepanivka of Vinnitsky district by the police and executive services of the region. Vote. "To" - 103. Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski - to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine regarding the response to a parliamentary appeal. We're voting on the direction. "For" - 153. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov - to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the facts of the illegal actions concerning the participants in the "Resurrection, Ukraine!" in Kirovograd district. We're voting on the direction. "For" - 146. Decision taken. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the prosecutor of the Hersonian region in connection with his dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary appeal regarding the falsification of the decision of the Priville Rural Council of the Herson district. Vote. "To" - 97. Decision taken. King Vladimir Mikolaiovich for the establishment of an interfractional MP. That's what he's going to have to announce in the "Variance" himself. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. First question. From the procedure? Please sign in from the procedure. Deputy Baranowski. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u2	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Thank you. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! Whoever was present yesterday was well aware of what was happening yesterday in this room: there was a gross violation of the Rules, the Constitution of Ukraine. You know what was going on with the ballots of those deputies who were on their way abroad and those who were in the hospital. These violations have been identified by the regulatory committee, and the chairman of the regulatory committee has spoken of them. However, the chairman of the meeting did not react to the decision of the regulatory committee, and the vote continued. I and a group of national deputies demanded that this gross violation of the Constitution and the Rules be stopped. We approached the rostrum and demanded that the Head remove the missing deputies' cards. For me, as a national deputy, the position of National MP Mikola Mikhailovich Hapoczka after a selective non-censorship at my address promised me literally, "I will rip your head off if you don't change your position." Knowing how today's criminalized authorities have severed George Gongadze's head, I'm going to threaten.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u3	Regulation. Turn off the microphone, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Have a seat, please. How many minutes do you need? [[B in m in s a l in]] . In a minute. Please finish. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u4	Knowing how today's criminalized authority has done to Gongadze, I take the threat of Hospice as a direct threat to my life. [[That's what everybody knows.]] I sent the relevant statements to the Attorney General's Office, the Head of the Supreme Council, to the regulatory committee. I'm asking the Supreme Council today and, accordingly, the bodies to which I sent the applications, to provide me with protection and to investigate this incident. I would like to refer to individual deputies who feel that they are allowed everything under the present authority. Dear friends, we must all be human and treat one another in such a way that we do not dishonor the high title of Parliamentary. Because by strong methods and threats we will go very far.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u5	That's right. This also applies to the Presidium of the Supreme Council. Let us respect each other first and foremost the Supreme Council regulations. We've got 13 o'clock today, and we can talk about it. Let's move on to the day-to-day issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please log in from the procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u6	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] I'd like to give the floor to Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u7	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Yesterday, a truly unusual event took place in Parliament: there was a vote against a gross violation of the Ukrainian Rules and Laws. The result was officially made by the regulatory committee. In accordance with the Rules, if a vote is to be taken in violation of the Rules, such as those who are not present, those results shall be declared invalid. So I propose whether you or Vladimir Litvina, who held the meeting, that the results of yesterday's vote be declared invalid. That's what the Rules require. If that is not the case, we are strongly protesting the following questions because we are creating a precedent that will then be repeated. If you do not meet, we will have to take adequate action, not allowing ourselves to consider other matters. We must stop breaking the Rules in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u8	As far as this is concerned. Yesterday I had these materials, and I sent them to a profile regulatory committee to be thoroughly tested and reported to the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Nothing like that, there's not all the materials. All gather and report to the Supreme Council. With regard to the recognition of the results of the vote as invalid. You may know that this is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, where it is interpreted, in which cases the result of the vote is found to be real or invalid.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u9	What do you mean, it's not? Okay. Alexander Alexandrovich, you don't have to argue. You come along, I'll give you a copy of the Constitutional Court's decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Materials on the Regulatory Committee. Teeth. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u10	Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The Julia Timoshenko faction. Please pass the word to Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u11	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! Yesterday, as part of the presidency of the Supreme Council, Mr. Lithuania and its deputies in the Hall, there was a forgery, a deliberate forging of the results of the vote. The investigation conducted by the regulatory committee revealed 17 only officially absent deputies. We're not saying how many MPs were not in the hall unofficially. But 17 deputies were either overseas or hospitalized, and their ballots were voted on. Although the leadership of the Supreme Council had been declared, it continued to falsify the results of the vote. We demand, Your Honor Chairman, that a report be made specifically by the leadership of the Supreme Council to reverse the results of the fictitious vote that has been made in order not to allow for a fictitious vote in the future. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, also insists that the issue of the political crisis in Ukraine be addressed urgently. Only then can all other secondary issues begin to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u12	What, a report by the Head of the State Committee on Information Policy, Television and Radio, by other leaders, are these secondary questions? Why did you decide that? You're personal. When the agenda is formed, he agrees to a meeting of the Conciliation Council, then he is brought into the Hall. And as for yesterday's vote, I said to you, all the materials are directed to the profile committee. The word is given to Galini Harmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u13	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. As a member of the regulatory committee, I participated in the verification of these facts yesterday. Indeed, there are documents that show that the deputies whose cards were voted on yesterday are on a foreign mission and that the sick have a certificate. Next. Today, Alexander Petrovich Baranovsky made a statement and a similar statement in the committee is made on behalf of Rudekovsky Nikolaievich. He reported that in the presence of a number of deputies, he had been threatened by the Surkis People's Deputy. [[names]] I believe that a decision should be taken by the Committee to deal with these issues. In addition, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine insists on the question of the political situation in plenary.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u14	The talk is over for a reason. So by summarizing everything that's been said, I'm stressing once again that the materials are transferred to the profile committee. As far as the agenda is concerned. [[B in m in s a l in]] Valentin Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u15	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. First of all, I want to inform my fellow national MPs that the materials are not yet on the committee. Although these are the same materials that the Governing Body directed yesterday. [[That's nonsense!]] However, Hennady Andryovich, I am grateful. We will also include many and many materials related to the events of yesterday — mornings and evenings — as many national deputies came to me in the morning, claiming that they had been threatened, severely violating their rights as national deputies. The Regulatory Committee will consider these applications very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u16	There's no objection. I'm just trying to be objective. At the invitation of the factions of the Company of Ukraine and Soccer, I announce a break of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to take up your jobs, we'll continue our work. From the procedure Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, a faction of Communists, takes the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, I am addressing you because when you opened the meetings, you told me about the Constitutional Court's decision. That's why I think it's necessary to inform the honourable colleagues of the people's deputies, and more specifically to bring to your attention the actual decision of the Constitutional Court on July 7, 1998. By the way, it was when the President of Ukraine accused a certain part of Parliament, or national MPs, of violating the Ukrainian Constitution when voting in the Chamber. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court in the constitutional case of the President of Ukraine regarding the official interpretation of parts two and three of article 84 and parts two and four of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on the procedure for voting and re-examination of laws by the Supreme Council]] What did the Constitutional Court decide? I quote: "The position of part two of article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine should be understood by the fact that the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular laws, regulations, other acts, and decisions of the Supreme Council on the adoption of articles of legislation, are adopted only at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, subject to the personal participation of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the voting and recruitment of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the number of votes in favour of them." [[deviation]] [[I'd like to emphasize!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u19	Excuse me. Valentin Grigorovich, please continue to read the following paragraph regarding the Constitutional Court's decision to declare Parliament's decision unconstitutional. Here's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I think we're going to ask the regulatory committee, the head of the regulatory committee to hold meetings, and if the committee considers it necessary, prepare and make an appropriate draft order. We'll look at it and define our position. Alexander Alexanderus Moroz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! There was a ruling by the regulatory committee that yesterday, I understood, 17 MPs who were absent for good reasons were voting. There's a rule of law that defines a non-existent vote that violates the Rules, you know that. We requested a half-hour recess, during which we discussed the situation and concluded that if you, as Head of the Supreme Council, did not publicly declare that the draft laws and regulations voted yesterday -- you would not be signed because the vote was in violation of the Rules -- we would act adequately, not allowing us to set a precedent for gross violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to which we are bound by the Rules of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u22	Thank you. From the procedure Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u23	The Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to add to the information given by Matthew and Frost. We are, indeed, now asking you not to sign these documents, resulting from yesterday’s presentation of documents signed by you. You've signed orders to assign specific national deputies abroad, and they're not in Ukraine. And you've been shown official guidance from the administration, which has informed us that certain national MPs are in the hospital, is meant at the Feofania Hospital. In this case, the regulatory committee only confirmed what you signed and what was officially provided by the Supreme Council. That is why we are asking you not to sign documents that show that, as if yesterday, the laws and regulations of the Supreme Council were adopted. As a result, we asked for a break, as well as for you to act on the basis of the Rules and Laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u24	Thank you. The Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u25	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! Our assistants, as well as representatives of the regulatory committee yesterday, calculated that there were 153 national deputies in the voting room representing nine presidential factions and nonfractional factions, but they managed to give 224, 225, 226 and even 228 votes. So there's been a total forging vote. The regulatory committee based its decision yesterday solely on the evidence of the absence of national deputies. [[And you were handed over this decision, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.]] I mean, 17 people's deputies in the Supreme Council were informed that they were absent and physically unable to vote for the proposed bills. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you don't have to make a deck of drop cards from the Supreme Council, you don't have to make a fictional vote, you don't have to embarrass and compromise the Supreme Council. This is the only democratic institution left in Ukraine. That's why we're asking you to make a motion for rebuttal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u26	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u27	Without that, we won't be working anymore, we don't want to play fictional games.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u28	Thank you. National Deputy Noshchenko. Please. He's followed by the national deputy worker, and we're going to finish the speech. And Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u29	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 160, Sumska oblast]] The Hard Ukraine faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear speakers, present! If you analyze the latest presentations, it is usually the speeches of people who already have the experience of parliamentary activity that have been led by both committees and the Supreme Council. You are well aware that inadequate situations have arisen on more than one occasion. I believe the helpers they talk about, but why should we trust the helpers? [[I don't want to call my last name so I don't have to argue in the hall.]] What, we don't know how to count? And the last. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a procedure. Dear colleagues, you have a question, please put it in order of the day, prepare documents. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies don't have documents on their hands, they're totally using air time for their own good. Please give us these materials, and resolve these questions in accordance with the rules of procedure. Do not ask the Head of the Supreme Council to do what he has no right to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u30	Thank you. People's Deputy Robber. Then the National MP of Samofal, and that's all, we said we were done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u31	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[Election District 222, Kiev]] "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the address of the head of our faction Victor Yushchenk was published. We have not changed our decision, and our decision is ignored. What's more, there was a fictitious vote yesterday, but we all realize that most of these configurations didn't happen as such. We should not replace the vote with a fictitious one, and we will not allow our constitutional rights to be ignored. So there's a serious crisis in Parliament right now, and it needs to be civilized. If there is an attempt to break us, there is no number of votes for such a break. I think we need to move away from this and make a deal when we consider the political situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u32	Thank you. The National MP of Samofal, and we will finish. This isn't the order of the day, I'm going to tell you how we're going to proceed. Everything, please, will be "Crazy" at 1:00. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u33	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! I've discovered a lot of amazing things for myself today. Today, there is a policy of double standards. In the statements we've heard about someone being threatened, someone being heard. Yesterday, on a national level, the President of the Supreme Council and his deputy were almost beaten. Why doesn't anyone say anything about it? I therefore request that the Regulatory Committee deal with this issue. Second question. They say there's no cards and so on. Why is there so many people on the left today? Because we all get paid for working in the sessional room. One can't do it, the other can't do it. Let's work fairly. Question three. You call for the decision of yesterday to be invalid. I'm sorry, but you've talked more about justice to the people, their needs, and so on. Are we supposed to cancel today's decision on the disabled who have children and who they can't raise about orphans? You're speculating more than I am, I'm not speculating yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u34	That's all right, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u35	And last of all, about the re-voting. I'll give you a classic, historical example. I think we don't have a bigger master in re-voting than Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz. When we adopted the Constitution, we voted ten times, but it was necessary, and we did. Let us therefore abandon double standards and work constructively for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u36	Thank you. People's Deputy Frost's replica, and we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u37	I want to say this on Samofal's replica. He rightly says that the individual articles of the Constitution were voted on 27 times, but they were voted on by members who were sitting in the session room but not by cards of those who were not in the hall. That's not what you're talking about. No one denies the need to consider draft laws that protect children. On the one hand, however, we need to see if this law protects them, and on the other hand, we need this law to be, sorry for the tautology, legal, not accepted with the violation of the Rules, because then it can be repealed by any body, including the Constitutional Court or the President. So let's not croak, let's not mix with each other. Remember, during your review of the Constitution, you approached me five times, insisting that you vote again because you had no card, and there were other reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u38	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Thank you. That's enough. You don't have to get involved. Dear colleagues! It's not a day-to-day procedure. All of it. Your last name wasn't called. Dear colleagues! All of it. Your last name hasn't been given, have you?Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please don't get involved in the discussion. Dear colleagues! That's how I propose. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who called you? I'm asking you not to speculate. Please. I'm telling you again. You're a very respectable person, you don't have to play that. Please. Dear colleagues! I suggest that we let the regulatory committee hold its meeting, prepare an appropriate draft regulation, and we will consider it in the session room. There was no meeting of the Regulatory Committee. The Regulatory Committee will make the appropriate decisions. At the suggestion of two factions -- the Yulia block of Timoshenko and Our Ukraine -- a break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. You will be asked about. [[B in m in s a l in]] What Is Your Answer? I'll give you the answer. Dear colleagues! Since we cannot block the work of the Supreme Council, the documents have not yet been signed, I would ask the regulatory committee to hold meetings and prepare a draft decision. One minute, I'm not finished. You respect me, I respect you. And then we'll look at that question. Now let's keep working in the right mode. The national deputy of the gmir is out of procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u40	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] First of all, I'm sorry I interrupted you. I won't be any more. And now, in fact. I don't think your offer is acceptable, if you'll excuse me. For what reason? How can a forged or non-false vote be confirmed or not confirmed by a vote where the same mythical people we talked about may be involved? Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's a simple way out of this. There are documents with your signature, similar to yours, confirming that people are on their way. You will now, without any regulatory committee, confirm whether your signature is or not yours. If this is your signature, everything will be decided automatically: the vote must be lifted, and you will not sign this document if you know what they are, well, abroad. If you don't recognize your signature, well, people forget, it's possible that the human memory isn't boundless, then the regulatory committee can pass your signature to the relevant experts, and they'll check whether it's your signature or not. And the question will be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u41	Thank you. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, head of the Regulatory Committee. And we'll keep working. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to inform both you and the National Deputies that all matters related to the events of yesterday in the Plenary Hall will be considered by the Regulatory Committee at 10 a.m. And so far, we are really asking, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to sign those legal acts that were positively voted yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u43	Thank you. I think we've reached agreement, haven't we? So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Calm down. We're all interested, by the way. Report by the Head of the National Committee of Information Policy, Television and Radio, the heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine, the National Radio Company of Ukraine, on the progress of the implementation of the Supreme Council Order of Ukraine on the order for the presentation of the work of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I'm informing you that we should hear this question in accordance with the Supreme Council's decree on the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine no later than September, which is what we are doing. The committee in question proposes the following regulations: Reporter - First Deputy Head of the Murkominform Murachovsky Anatoly Leonidovich - five minutes; Reporters or Co-reporters - President of NTCU - five minutes; Reporter - First Vice - President of the National Radio Company of Ukraine Tabacanko - five minutes; Questions to Reporters and Co-Rapporteurs - five minutes. The co-report will be delivered by the head of the Supreme Council Committee, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. And the question and the decision-making process is seven minutes. And it's only 45 minutes. Lucenko, the faction of socialists is procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u44	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to know on what basis substitutes, not heads, will come out on the rostrum. I know that Mr. Czee, for example, on the first channel in the middle of the deep night, when he was very excited by the moving line that 200 deputies had appeared there, even though there were 10. Why is he not on the Supreme Council? Is that a disgrace? Whether it will be the deputy heads of departments coming to our house, or whether it will soon be the guard standing next to a television company that wouldn't let me go last night, saying that I have a contract, and your deputy will come to one place for me. So what I'm saying is, maybe we should take these deputies to one place. Where's the head?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u45	I think the Supreme Council should be higher than any other.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u46	Where's the head, I ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u47	Your Honor, I'll answer. But let's communicate normally. Give me a chance to say. The head of the State Committee is on his way. This is the first time. Secondly, there is an appropriate letter and an appropriate request for an alternate to speak. Dear colleagues! If we work in such a mode that people will sit here for days and we do not approach the discussions, it is only natural that they will come or will not come to us at all. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u48	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you that both the Head of the State Committee on Information Policy and the President of the National Radio Company have, in fact, addressed the Committee in advance in connection with the fact that they cannot be present for this discussion. I think that this is not about their political position, but about the situation involved in shipping.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u49	One minute, do you have a procedure? The Viennese People's Deputy is out of procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u50	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Well, we understand perfectly that they're putting out normal people who are doing jobs so that we can look at them here. I propose that, in order to bring about a normal order in the Supreme Council, this is a matter for consideration today to be removed and transferred to the time when these people will be able to address the Ukrainian people's deputies. We'll settle under them if we disrespect the Supreme Council so much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u51	You can do that, but the point is, listen to the information not later than September. The date will pass, then we will not listen to this question at all. If you don't mind, let's move it. No problem. Do you mind? Let's vote. Who's in charge of removing this issue from consideration: transfer, withdrawing from consideration today, please vote. [[precision]] "To." 44. Please give me information on the factions. Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions - "Ukraine" and "Ukraine's Agrarians" - I announce a break of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Please take your seats, we'll continue our work. We took another break at the request of two factions -- "Ukraine" and "Ukrainen Agrarians". Raisa Vasilovna Bogatirovova. About the break results, I understand? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u53	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[constituency 41, Donetsk Region]] Dear colleagues! In fact, at the break we were asked to announce today, we consulted our colleagues. There is a request to convey the word of Pehoti Volodymyr Julius, and then to make a decision regarding our work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u54	Please turn on the Infantry microphone, the European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u55	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear National Deputies! Dear TV and radio listeners! In view of the recent oppression by some forces of tension in the country, the efforts to transfer rallying and opposition to the Supreme Council, thereby blocking the activities of the State’s higher legislative body, we, the leaders of the nine factions, groups, and representatives of non - factional deputies, claim the formation of a parliamentary majority. This is the majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u56	Well, I beg your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u57	This majority will assume responsibility for the legislative work of Parliament and the formation of a coalition government in line with the President's proposals for political reform. In the case of further attempts to block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the parliamentary majority will go to the redeployment of committees and commissions. This directly stems from our position of taking responsibility and meeting the established standards and rules of action in Parliament. The coalition of nine factions and groups, representatives of nonfractional national MPs, are open to dialogue, association with other factions, groups, and national deputies who are set up for fruitful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-27-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that statements have been made calling for a break from the Group of Democratic Initiatives, the faction of the People's Democratic Party, as well as another statement from the Social Democratic Party and the Group of European Elections, and given that we do not actually have a job, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next meeting will begin on October 8th, at 10 a.m. It will be a government day with information on health and the reform of Ukraine’s oil and gas complex. The following week, MPs work in constituencies and since October 7, committees and factions.
