ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies are invited to take up their jobs and prepare for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please turn the system on. People's deputies please register. [[10:03:19]] Registered -338 There were 338 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Solomon Yuri Petrovich, who is 65 years old. Let's welcome, let's wish you good health, Yuri Petrovich! [[Applause]] Honorable deputies, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to make a statement to the people's deputies with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I would like to ask the National MPs to sign up, and in the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Deputies' groups: Desert Tenko, Petrov, Kadenuk and others, under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of legislation in the election of the heads of district councils in the region of Czernig. I put to the vote a parliamentary motion for referral to the Attorney General. Please make up your mind, dear colleagues. [[10:04:51]] For-153 Decision taken. For - 153 people's deputies. Mikhail Dubkina, under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the violation by the City Council of Kharkiv to resolve individual issues in the area of construction and land relations. A request shall be made for a vote to be sent to the office of Attorney General. Please make up your mind. [[10:05:28]] For 1052 Decision taken. For - 102 people's deputies. Gregory Omelchenka, acting as Attorney-General of Ukraine for drawing on the responsibility of former Attorney-General of Ukraine: Vorsinova Grigoria Trofimovich and Potekka Mikhail Alexiyyovich, other law enforcement officials who had hidden the facts of the wash by former assistant to the President of Ukraine, Volkovy Alexander Mihajlovich, and his foreign currency associates, and had not taken action to return them to Ukraine. The request for a referral shall be put to the vote, please specify. [[10:06:17]] For 133 Decision taken. For - 133 people's deputies. Deputies: Omelchenko, Czervoniy, Shirko, Alexijuk to the executive responsibility of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for declaring unlawful and repealing the Order of the Procurator's Office of the City of Raven from 26 February 2002, on the removal of the distribution of books by Dmitr Chobot, Narcissus, "The Tribute to the political portrait of Victor Medvedczuk" and the Order of the Equality Department of Internal Affairs from 23 October 2001. Request for referral to the office of Attorney General, please be determined. [[10:07:10]] For-136 Decision taken. Vladimir Onishuk to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on violations of Ukraine's higher education laws, on education in the provision of higher pay services by higher education institutions in Odessa. A vote is taken on the request for referral to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. [[10:07:47]] For 139 For negative 139 national deputies, the decision is made. Michael Dobkin to the Head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine - on the facts of the violations of legislation in the decision-making of the elections to the Kharkiv City Council. I'll bet you a vote on the referral to the High Council of Justice of this matter. Please make up your mind. [[10:08:22]] For a hundred and Decision taken. One hundred and forty-five national deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the performances. The time for the performances is 30 minutes. Let's take a look at the board. Manchulenko, National Deputy of Our Ukraine faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u2	George Manchulenko, Chernovets region, 203 constituency, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head, dear colleagues, last week we were all, I think, working in our constituencies, including I worked in my 203th district of Kishmen. Problems that have been raised by both voters and even by the authorities, which are now quite painful. Social programs and social problems are being cut short, and people are being very alert today. This problem is becoming quite acute. In view of the fact that, in the first half of this year, the State budget does not receive nearly 6 billion dollars. Clearly, without these funds, social - oriented programs cannot be funded. Including there's either a pension or a salary and all that, let alone dating, including the Cherniewsky area, which requires proper dating and attention from the center. It is also disturbing that the situation, which has been greatly improved when the Prime Minister of Ukraine was Yushchenko, is now getting much worse. And that's too bad, I think we all need to make the right conclusions, because if we continue to have this trend with the State budget, we can actually have a collapse of government finances in the fall. Therefore, as parliamentarians, as the Ukrainian Parliament, we need to draw the right conclusions with regard to the government. And another problem that was raised by my constituents and representatives of power, particularly in Viznice. Last year there was a series of events marking the anniversary of Nazariah Jaremczuk and a festival in Visitsa. Significant amounts were spent on the budget, which has not been reimbursed by the organizations to date. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you very much to influence the government accordingly, so that these funds, which do not return to the organizations today, even though they have done the work properly, are returned. I have the official letters, the address of the head of the Visitor District Council, the head of the Viennese Reservoir on this subject. So I would very much like to help you to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u3	Thank you. Deputy Volinec, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I intend to make a statement from this rostrum about the situation in the coal sector. In view of the deterioration in the coal economy in Kiev, five Donbas mines have been holding a protest campaign for a month. They care for government institutions, and part of miners starve for a long time on the grounds of Independence. The largest number of hungry people was 88. But in view of the deterioration in health, most of them have gone hungry, yet 12 continue to starve. Two of them: Lysak Volodymyr, the outcast, and Domashev Anatoly, a passerby, are in a very difficult condition. Last night, it was hospitalized from the walls of Parliament in a very difficult condition. The authorities are not paying attention to the reigning and starving miners, but Mintopenergo and the power structures are exerting pressure to push miners out of the city. Periodically, the hungry and the protesting miners are being tried. At the top, the miners’ signatures on the non-payment of wages to the protesting miners have been collected. The prime minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kinakh, made a statement at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that the government was not going to lend debts to miners. In view of this situation, I, as head of the independent union of Ukraine and the national deputy of Ukraine, declared hunger in the Supreme Council Hall in protest against the abuse and callous treatment of people with heavy, dangerous jobs since 2 July 2002, demanding that miners pay their current wages at the proper time and pay off their existing wages, regression payments, and one - time assistance. I appeal to all national deputies to support their actions with the demands of miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u5	National Deputy Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u6	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Distinguished People's Deputies! The great Presidency! One of the great ones said that a person’s name was priceless and honorable. I will allow myself to say that the same applies to an honest and dignified name of the State. Back in 1996, when the Ukrainian delegation arrived at a global forum. Beijing, we were approached by other delegations, were approached by representatives of other countries, and asked: Ukraine, what do you do with adoption? I assure you, this has been very sad, embarrassing and embarrassing. Uncomfortable because Ukraine did not have a legislative base at the time, it did not have a mechanism to adopt children, and it did not have an official structure to do so. I want to assure you that from that time onward, from 1996 to this day, we have corrected this situation and that the worthy name of Ukraine has been restored. There's an adoption center. A legislative base created. And I assure you that since then there has never been a single complaint, no comment and the name of Ukraine, honest and dignified, never been on the mouth of the international public, not in the press, not in the media of Ukraine. No, because there were no violations. And I would like to report to you, honourable national MPs, that today we have too much regret, very unpleasant signals that are being created, that there is an attempt to change the adoption mechanism for children to go to the United States of America and Canada. There's some kind of public organization that, think about what it's called -- the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce that has to do with the adoption of children. And when we're trying to find out, so far I don't call the names where, where, where, where the centres are going to be connected, the breakup of this adoption mechanism, we learn about the Chicago Consul, we learn about some nuances with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we learn about some nuances from Banking. I just want to say one thing. Distinguished People's Deputies! Indeed, we need another precedent in order for the name of Ukraine to be a fitting illustration in the tongues. That's the first one. Do we really need to do some new investigation commission again to explain how a public organization called the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry began to adopt children when there was no violation? Today, without names, without names, I make a warning, this mechanism is clearly not needed in Ukraine today. As a country that is a member of the Council of Europe, nor as a country that is heading towards European choice. Distinguished People's Deputies! I ask you to consider the application I have made to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u7	Turkinov People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u8	Dear Chairman! Please give the floor to the national deputy Victor Vasilovich Terrena.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u9	National Deputy Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u10	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Statement by the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. "Our faction draws attention to the unacceptable situation that has arisen today with the return of the population of Ukraine. In order to compensate citizens of the money savings by the Committee on Budgets of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the last call was proposed to allocate 1 billion 100 million dollars for 2002, but only 500 dollars remained under the government’s insistence. [[I would like to remind you that this committee was then headed by Alexander Turchinov, deputy head of the Party of Fatherland.]] As a result, the annual payments to investors in the current year were limited to 50 dollars. But even receiving this meager sum has turned the government into another humiliation and abuse of people. We stress that the organization itself is very unhappy with the payment of money savings. Savings today are overcrowded by people who register early in the morning and sit there all day without even having information about whether or not money will be counted for the return of savings. Contributors, including almost all the elderly, retirees, disabled people suffer from burnout and nervous stress, are driven out of power in suffocating, unsuited rooms. These lines strongly testify to the level of confidence of citizens of Ukraine and investors, including existing authorities. And they have every reason not to believe neither the government nor the President. First, the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered more than 10 different options for the State Savings Restoration Guarantee Act. Neither the government nor the President, and they are subject to the law of the legislative initiative, have ever introduced draft laws to regulate the problem. Only the national deputies did so, but the President vetoed all laws. Even today, only 169,196 million dollars were transferred from 196 million dollars, while half of the budgeted amount for payment is 250 and today it would be almost 250 dollars. So the government no longer added 54 million bracelets. The faction strongly insists that the government should bear full responsibility for the unprofessional approach and insufficient work on the organization of savings payments, for the abuse of people who lose their health and sometimes, and for the same reasons, their lives. We assure you that our faction will live up to its word given to people in the parliamentary elections and will continue to consistently defend the interests and rights of millions of cheated citizens of Ukraine who are despised by the existing authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u11	National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Nikolaenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u13	National MP Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies, Nikolayenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to go to our government today, the Committee on Agricultural Affairs, the agro-industrial complex, about that natural disaster that has not only recently hit the regions of Ukraine, but also the terrible drought that hit the southern regions of our country today. I recently came from the district, visited four rural areas, and, believe me, in my many years of experience, I have not seen such a condition in the bread field. Today, practically in this state, the winter bread is in the Hersonian region, especially in Priazova. It's impossible to cut them down and buy them, because there's no such thing as a technique, so they're so small and so on. In this regard, I would like the disaster zone to be discussed today, not only on the Crimea that we have suffered, but also on the territory of Zaporozhye, Hersonian, and Mikolai, and so on. I'd like the Committee of Banking Policy to look at the situation where the farms of these countries also took loans, and today they were planning to return them from August 1st, getting crops. There is no crop in the south. We need to work today, ask them to look for mechanisms under safeguards, maybe the government, administrations with the idea of prolonging these loans, because agriculture is not capable of harvesting, but it's about next crop, how to sow, how to preserve food security, how to provide people with bread for the next year. In this regard, I would also like to address both the agrarian committee and the Ministry of Meliorization, more loyally, the State Committee and the Cabinet, to help with our irrigation. Because without irrigation, virtually south of Ukraine will be lost today. And the last. I'm addressing all the national MPs as the head of the Science and Education Committee. On September 1st, a new school year will begin again. We have all the deputies, and I'm talking to Vladimir Mikhailovich for support, and the teachers are asking questions. The budget provides for the introduction of 57 articles -- a salary for internships and two salaries, and 460 million for salary increases from 1 April to 1 April for teachers and science teachers. Sadly, this did not happen. I had a conversation with the Prime Minister yesterday, and he promises to consider these questions. Our insistent demand for this to be from September 1st. Specially funded are computers for rural areas and textbooks. These questions need to be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u15	National Deputy Yukhnovsky, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko Please, will you speak or refuse? _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u16	National MP Borschevski is a faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u17	Borszewski, Communist faction, Dnepropetrovsk region. The first event in the town of Dnepropetrovsk was the mass protest of the Dnepromlin combination, due to the fact that the combination belonged to the labour force. Today, a group of dealers are trying to take it illegally from the labour force. This action was supported by workers in the city of Dnepropetrovska and residents. It was gathered next to the High Command and then next to the administration of up to 2,000 people. On their instructions, I would like to introduce you, distinguished colleagues, to the working group of the Open Shareholder Society "Dnepromlin" of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dnepromlin, 800 persons, one of the few enterprises in Dnepropetrovsk that continues to carry out the daily work programme, approximately 46 per cent of the population's need for flour, filling the city's budget in a timely manner. Wages are paid regularly, about 200 young workers earn new jobs, and many social issues are resolved by the collective not only for workers in the enterprise, but also by charitable activities. The request of children's homes, schools, military hospitals has not been ignored, and in recent years, the lists of district councils have been subject to pangs of grace for participants in the Great Homeland War and visually disabled persons. But since recently, our team has been concerned about its future, about the future of children. The representatives of the ZAO “Ukserprom” city of Kiev decided to take over our collective enterprise by redesigning the controlling package of actions illegally, using the entire arsenal of lawsuits. The Lenin District Court of Dnepropetrovska, approving the Ukrainian Business Society Act, banned the holding of a number of issues on 6 June in its order at the planned general meeting of shareholders of the Dnipromlin AO, the Dnepropetrovsk Economic Court banned the holding of social gatherings on 12 June, in violation of article 3, article 15 of the Business Act. Thus, the full economic activity of one of Ukraine's best and largest enterprises is blocked, and the labour force therefore demands that the necessary measures be taken to combat arbitrary acts, violations of existing laws against the OA "Dnipromlin" of the city of Dnepropetrovska. Protect a rhythmic collective enterprise The Open Shareholder Society "Dnipromlin" from interfering with its internal affairs. Allow the Dnipromlina to continue to provide quality products to the population, to strengthen the economy of the city, the region and the country. If this treatment is left unattended, we reserve the right to carry out mass protests. Today and the Supreme Council should not be left with the arbitrariness of the Dnepropetropets in relation to the Dnepromline, it is the success that people will then believe in power, and today, practically, the authorities have left the labour force to chance. Therefore, I ask you to intervene with the Supreme Council, and I transmit this address to the leadership of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u18	National MP Raznik, Democratic Initiatives MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u19	He's a reputable member of the Democratic Initiatives. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! I've been assigned by a group, a group of Democratic Initiatives, to read out the statement: "There's probably no country in the world that would be satisfied with the level of taxation. Taxes are always high -- they're a commonly known axiom. But in Ukraine, the existing tax system does not meet the requirements of efficiency and economic efficiency, does not stimulate manufacturing processes. So far, there is no single concept of public policy that provides transparent, simple and stimulating tax legislation. We, the national MPs, the members of the Democratic Initiative Group, claim that the existing tax system has become the main brake of the Ukrainian economy, the sleaghbaum on Ukraine's path to civil society, European integration and prosperity. Twenty public taxes and 14 local taxes and congregations are inexorably overstretched by the circulation costs of taxpayers. The amount of corporate tax liabilities is three times that of their net profit. A tax payer today instead of being the father of a prosperous Ukrainian family, primarily progress and prosperity, has been turned into a cow that is breast - fed but not fed. The current tax system is transforming the real economy into a virtual economy of its own, and a shadowy one into a real economic power that is simultaneously in Ukraine and the main political factor, at least because it actually feeds 50 percent of the working population. The known fact that the most powerful businesses in Ukraine are the biggest debtors to the state. An entrepreneur’s bracelet does not carry 80 extra pounds. Special attention is required to analyse the situation of extra - cost taxes. In general, this plugin is quite complex, so it is necessary to simplify the taxation of the added value for a number of categories of enterprises, primarily small ones. The Democratic Initiative MP claims that in a civilized state, and that's how we see our country in the future, the economy should serve democracy, not the other way around. One of the most pressing problems in the Ukrainian economy is the immediate reform of the tax system, the dramatic improvement and the economic efficiency of the taxation system. Therefore, in order to avoid increasing social tensions and improving socio-economic conditions, it is necessary to urgently adopt the Ukrainian Tax Code. Further halting the process of adopting the new Tax Code will lead to an increase in the economy of Ukraine and the general crisis of democracy in our country. Quality changes in democratic processes can take place only if the Ukrainian Economic System is reoriented on the basis of a civilised new tax code that cannot be closed in closed government offices. The most powerful thing to do is to make a social discourse around this topic. It is necessary to provide for the democratization of VAT in the new version of the Tax Code, as well as for moratoriums on changes in taxes, mandatory congregations, and other budgetary and non-budgetary compulsory payments, the introduction of new types of taxes and congregations. The new Tax Code should be based on the five basic principles of the optimum tax system: economic efficiency, administrative simplicity, flexibility, political responsibility and justice. That is why members of the Democratic Initiatives Group believe that only as soon as possible will the adoption of the Tax Code on new democratic principles stimulate economic development and social progress in Ukraine. We insist on urgent consideration and approval of this basic document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u20	People's Chelnokov, faction of the Communists of Ukraine. You don't? National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Several reports on the situation in the Montenegrin region. Thanks to the presence of Minister Durdinec Vasil Vasilovich, I would like to draw his attention to the situation related to the village of Green Guy in the region of Chernobyl, where you, Vasil Vasilovich, were after the village was practically flooded by the Prud River. The state has now allocated 600,000 for flood management. To date, however, no amount has been allocated to the village of Green Guy Novoselicki district. Thus, if the situation is that it rains, more than a hundred farm gardens will be demolished into the Prud River. I would ask you, Vasil Vasilovich, to influence this situation. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm talking to you. In the Novoseltsky region, there is the head of the district government administration, Gladchuk Mikola Petrovich, who has expressly forbidden the local press to report that MP Melniczuk was conducting the reception that raised the issues. He called out the editor - in - law and said that if the materials on Melniczuk's stay and meeting with the voters were published, he would be fired. This is a gross violation of the law, for which the head of the district government should resign. At today’s faction, Mr. Piscoon was a candidate for the Attorney General. I asked him, "Why doesn't the tax police influence their subjects in the Cherniewsky region?" The situation is as follows. A joint venture. An investment that provides drugs for more than fifty pharmacies has been under tax pressure for seven months. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! What did Mr. Piscoon say to me? He said that there is radiation in the Chernobyl area that affects taxpayers so that no one can cure them. So I ask others to protect me. In the Chernobyl area, Energobank is being followed up by the Faith Company, and virtually people are being released from their jobs illegally. I would also like to influence the management of the Energy Bank. Thank you for your attention. And please, Vladimir Mihajlovich, help me to fulfil my status as a national deputy in the Chernjevic region, especially in the Novoseltsky region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u22	National MP Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u23	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction. Dear Head! Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to one problem that has long been troubling all of Ukrainian patriotic citizenship. The authorities in Zaporozhye want to either run a bridge through Dnipro from the left to the right across the island of Horticia. Hortician Island is the cradle of our Cossacks. This, you know, is the umbilical cord with which the entire struggle of the Ukrainian people for independence is linked. On the island of Hortica, Ukrainian settlements have been fixed since the earliest time. And now the authorities, using purely such household thinking, want to conduct a large city with three lanes in one direction and three in the other through the island of Hortic. This means that this cradle of our Cossacks and our patriotic thought will be covered with asphalt. And along with that asphalt, there will be various entertainment facilities, which will also cover the island with asphalt and various other living quarters. You can't let that happen. Projects to build a bridge on the left bank on the right of Dniper were made in the 20s. Bridges began to be built there, and then the war did not let them build them, but there are places to run bridges either north or south of the island and not cover the island with asphalt. There are other ways to solve the problem. Deputies! Let's take the initiative to save Horticia. Let's not allow the construction of these different bridges and other "joy" facilities on Hortica to destroy this historic shrine. The decision was taken by the authorities of Zaporozhye, and someone in Kiev also blessed those decisions. So we have to stop these plans -- cover the island with asphalt and destroy our historical monument. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u24	Dear National Deputies! The amount of time specified for messages, requests and queries has been exhausted. The problems you have violated in your interventions will be given appropriate instructions and appropriate requests will be sent to the government, ministries, and authorities. Dear colleagues! As you know, according to the Rules, Wednesday we are discussing issues of order. You have a list of questions to consider. Since we agreed that from 16 hours we work on committees, factions and groups, honourable colleagues, I would suggest that we continue our work if you agreed to do so by 15 hours to review the schedule of meetings for today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a denial? Let us move on to the schedule of our meeting today. Information is provided to the head of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the summary of the June 2002 PARE session. Reported to the head of the permanent delegation, Boris Ilchi Oljinik. Boris Illich, how long do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u25	Wait a minute, seven. Thank you, Your Honor. You may know that the updated Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, composed of the National Deputies for the Abbott: Baburin, Gladys, Gladium, Zivago, Karpova, Klimpusha, Kostenko, Matviychuka, Oliynika, Pisarenko, Rahanski, Rybaka - took part in the third part of the PARE session, which took place from 24 to 28 June this year in Strasbourg. We pay tribute to the new recruits of the delegation, who have entered into the working rhythm of the Assembly in harmony, beyond having an important life and social and political experience behind them. They have already been able to spot the lagoons that we need to find in our work. Yes, for example, Anatoly Grigorovich Pisarenko notes an increase in the number of translators. He's absolutely got a point. Since we have prepared an open, chronic documental report, we have identified issues that have been discussed by representatives of our delegation. This is a unique contribution by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the economic development of Central and Eastern European countries, Rahansky, Kostenko, to the protection of human rights in connection with the enlargement of the EU - Olijnik, which has been dealt with in the short term in the Middle East, the problem of reducing the risk of environmental pollution by destroying chemical weapons, Rahanski. In addition, discussions were held on future cooperation between European institutions, on the situation of refugees in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia and others. To the benefit of the delegation, we will include the adoption by the Assembly of the two amendments initiated by Rahanski in the draft resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly on issues related to the activities of the Development Bank, by which Ukraine is included in the list of States requiring special attention by the Bank on assistance in increasing the production and efficiency of the energy sector, as well as the Parliamentary Assembly's requirement to start financing projects to transform the facility into an ecologically safe system and to complete the construction of compensatory capacity-building in connection with the closure of the Chaes. President Lemier promised that his bank would soon begin to date the project of concealment and defrost the financing of the expansion of power in Ukraine. He also assured us that, after making an appropriate request from our authorities, he would raise the issue of introducing the Ukrainian MP to the Assembly of Donor Countries of the International Chernobyl Fund. In the discussion, respected Communist comrades can be quieter. Speaking in the debate on human rights in the Kaliningrad region in connection with the enlargement of the European Union, I called on the EU Member States to prevent restrictions on the freedom of movement of Ukrainian citizens after the introduction of visa barriers on its border with the countries officially candidates for entry into the European Union. After intense debates from the Middle East problem, the Assembly adopted a resolution in which it unbiasedly assessed the actions of the parties to the conflict in a balanced manner, urging the Israelis and Palestinians to immediately stop any acts of violence and hostility and restore the peace process. But all of these really right proposals, as for me, can only be implemented if a United Nations peacekeeping contingent is introduced to separate the enemy sides for a period of time until they move on to direct negotiations. From my point of view, I felt it necessary to get to know European dignitaries. A permanent delegation met with observers from the Severincin and Wolven Monitoring Committee at their request, informing them of their intention to visit Ukraine in October of this year to prepare a follow-up report on the state of implementation of our nation’s obligations and obligations. The delegation also took part in the election of the Deputy Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Justice with information on the current activities of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, speaking on the Luxembourg Committee of Foreign Affairs, which stressed that the Committee of Ministers attached particular importance to the proper implementation of the Council of Europe action plan on freedom of the media in Ukraine. In response to a question from Severinsin Polfer, she said that the Committee of Ministers was careful to track down everything related to the disappearance of the Ukrainian journalist and confirmed the requirement for an exhaustive, transparent investigation -- I quoted it. There was also a meeting of a permanent delegation with Lithuanian colleagues from their initiative, and members of our delegation were present at the press conference of Severencin and the widow of Georgia Gongadze on the state of investigation of the situation of the disappearance of the journalist. Mrs. Severencen, in particular, expressed support for the continuation of Ukraine’s monitoring of the next presidential election. We also attended the opening of an exhibition of artists from Ukraine - Sergey Artemčica and Alexander Redka, where the newly elected deputy of Hensek, Mrs. Maudbukikio, gave a welcome speech. As all our deputies have always participated actively in the meetings of the committees and political groups that took place regularly during the session, one word of the permanent delegation has worked in harmony, purposefully, and this has been greatly facilitated by the highly professional support of the secretariat of the delegation and diplomats of the Permanent Representation of Ukraine to the Council of Europe. And before I thank you for your attention, I'm going to say that I didn't announce here another topic that was discussed at the Council of Europe, and you'll understand why, it's called Fighting Smoking. So, dear brother-in-laws, we are now left with just the day-to-night stench of global and Ukrainian democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer of information to be accepted and used in practical our work. You are being reviewed by a draft law on the priorities of innovation in Ukraine for the period up to 2005. The Minister of Education and Science, Cremen Vasil Grigorovich, will report. Please, Vasil Grigorovich. How long do you need, Vasil Grigorovitch? Do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u27	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft law on the priority directions of innovation in Ukraine for the period until 2005. This law is designed to execute the decree of the President of Ukraine. And there is, in our view, a very important document, so it's quite clear in the context of the processes that are taking place in modern civilization, in today's world, a country that does not provide an innovative type of economic development, and in general all spheres of social life, it cannot be competitive in a globalized world, it can't move on to science and information technology. So in our view, this bill is extremely relevant. I would like to say that, in view of this, there is an urgent need to concentrate the resources available in the country on the most relevant directions of the real sectors of the economy of Ukraine, taking into account the need to support the most profitable innovation projects. An integral part of national innovation policy should be the creation of conditions for inclusion in the innovation sphere of all possible financial resources through the use of direct and indirect economic influence instruments, the creation of an enabling legislative environment for all subjects of the innovation process: state, non - state, foreign, private, natural persons, and so on. The list of priorities for innovation was formed taking into account the scientific and economic rationale for the proposals of innovation actors, their independent expertise, and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It contains 6 main blocks. I, with your permission, honorary national MPs, name them literally. The first is resource-saving equipment and technological processes for basic economic sectors. The second is aviation, missile and space technology and special-purpose technology. Third - electronic information technology and communication systems. The fourth is functional and structural materials and products. Five medical diagnostic systems, prevention and treatment. And the sixth direction is technology and technology for an agro-industrial complex. Each of these blocks contains specific types of high-tech products, because if they are to be produced by the state, they should be very clearly defined. Specific technologies are defined in areas where, first of all, Ukraine is a recognized leader and state support should be provided for the purpose of implementing export potential as soon as possible. This is especially true of special - purpose technologies, special materials, and so forth. Secondly, the technologies are defined in the areas that are needed in Ukraine, in our view, by accelerated development with a view to winning the internal market for production and ousting imports. These are medical systems and tools, equipment to realize the potential of the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex, etc. The list of priorities for innovation in Ukraine for the period until 2005 does not, in our view, cover all the technological and economic interests of Ukraine and contain only a fraction of the ways to realize the powerful potential of the state economy. The constraints on direction are also due, among other things, to the limited resources available to implement them, as well as to the need for their concentration on innovation growth, with each project receiving substantial State support. Dear National Deputies! In our view, the draft law that you are given for consideration may have some additions and changes. But we think that in the first reading, this document can be completely accepted. So I wanted to invite you to this and thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u28	Thank you. There's a question for the reporter, please sign up. Let's take a look at the board. National Deputy Konovaluk faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vassili Grigoryevich! The issues identified in the draft law are of paramount importance. I know your personal relationship to the issue of innovation. The issue relates primarily to the approaches and implementation of the State-wide programmes that you have discussed. This requires funding. And whether priority funding is envisaged in the draft budgeting for the coming year. That's the first question. And the second question. Today, there is an innovative company and we know that many of the issues today relate to the campaign because most of the projects that would seem vital to the economy are unfortunately still unfunded and unfunded. Whether it is possible to specify the activities of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u30	Thank you. As for the first question of the first question, I would like to point out that there is really a systemic, integrated funding for these projects, including through the state budget. And the government is going to provide special funding for the 2003 draft budget for those directions that are being reported today through this bill. As for the second question. Indeed, there is a Ukrainian State Innovation Company today. It was created after the restructuring of the State Innovation Fund, but unfortunately, the big difference between one and the other is that the previous structure had very large revenue, about a billion dollars, and could be effectively or less efficient, but at any rate managed by it. Today’s company is tasked with acting on the basis of the repayment of debts that were owed to the State Fund. I would like to report that these debts amount to over 600 million. The company has hundreds of courts today, many courts have already been won. Some 60 million dollars of this debt were returned, including, for example, 6.6 million dollars in June. That's why we're increasing our efforts here, and how will there be less opportunities for efficient funding of projects, the company will start this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u31	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u32	Vladimir Yavorowski, 123 district, Javorowski, Jovkovsky district Dear Vassil Grigorovich! When a person, like the state, is poor, he is eager to grab hold of everything at once. It seems to me that we in Ukraine have already indicated that we have a number of priorities through which Ukraine can quickly reach, say, a civilized country and go to the world market is an agrarian sector, it's an aircraft building, it's an intellectual potential of a nation and so on. It seems to me that in this law that's being proposed in these directions, I realize that this document is purely ideological, which only determines direction, but it seems to me that we're once again grasping at everything and we're going to catch up to the civilized world when we're behind for the whole circle. Don't you think there should be some sort of system? You yourself have demonstrated today the activities of this company, which, in fact, has spent innovative money and I may not have much information, but I know that the most brilliant product, the most brilliant idea that was made by the Innovation Fund, is the production of matches for Ukraine. I understand that matches are also needed, but you can burn the house and something else, you can understand it. What do you think your honest assessment is, can we still narrow down the pitiful costs that we have today, which we're making for innovation? It can narrow them down to a few of the main priorities and honestly tell the people that we're doing it in that way, because we're doing it in that direction. We have to give up something, but let's say we make a breakthrough in the same plane building, where we have tremendous success, and we know that today our newest AN-70 is practically stuck at the start. What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u33	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. It's an absolutely fair question. To be honest, with the trend that has been expressed, I agree, and I would like to say that at the first stage we had less direction than we have today. They were forced, unfortunately, to give in to a certain perhaps even bearer of pressure, and I think that in working on this document together with the Committee on Science and Education we can somehow implement your idea of narrowing down issues by concentrating our efforts. Or do it in a way that has a front and a second direction. But it's going to be something else.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u34	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. Time is running out for questions and answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u36	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, appears in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u37	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Deputies! In connection with the consideration of the law on innovation, it is appropriate to adopt a law on priorities for innovation and this will allow a public or other expert council to consider the innovation process, approve or reject it, depending on whether it is included in a list of legally approved priorities. All 46 topics of the law can be combined with the following: more sophisticated technologies and new materials. The themes are divided between the following: basic industries, agriculture, production, arms. The service direction is information systems and medical equipment. And traditional for Ukrainian applied science is design materials. We don't have the ability to characterize each of them here, so let's look at the individual subjects in this law. The first item on "Resource-saving technologies for basic industries" deals with coal mining equipment from solid and thin layers, the disposal of coal methane. Both themes are not new. The mine methane project was developed perfectly by the Institute of Combustion and was set up as a national theme in 1994. This topic is now being driven by the technology park and the academics Bulat. American companies invited to operate coal methane in America during the last half century. With regard to coal mining from thin and thin layers, this is an extremely relevant topic for Ukraine, since almost all existing Donbass layers are thin and have an average capacity of about three inches [70 cm]. It's obviously about the coal mining plants of the Donugil Institute and the Malishev and Buran factories. They were funded in 1992-1996, but they didn't spread enough. However, this is where Technoparkuglamash works and cards in his hands. Another topic is the new technology of welding equipment and materials, which is the theme of Patton's Institute, which is the world's undisputed leader in welding materials. And once again, we have Patton's technology park. Another topic in the chapter of " Semiconductor materials based on a super-pure village of Germany, compound 2-B6," here is a technology park of the Institute of Semiconductors. Synthetic materials, optical and constructive monocrystics, nanotechnologies for their receipt, here Ukraine has wonderful factories and institute of Vladimir Petrovich Seminozhenko and Monocrystal technology. With regard to information technology and communication systems, we developed two technology parks. One for functional computer systems and software. Ukraine has excellent science schools in image recognition technology that can be incorporated into the Epic Computer program. Here we have a great artificial intelligence institute in Donetsk. Their efforts should be localized in a computer - imaging technology park. And the second technology for information transmission systems. Thus, a large number of topics proposed by the government before the first reading are on the subject that has been the basis for the creation of technology parks. So these topics already have substantial tax benefits and financial revenues. As we can see from the information of the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council, there were 17 directions in Russia, and we have 46. The direction that Russian science has foreplay in the world is 8 in Japan, 2-3 in the US. Each state fits its own specifics. Among our topics, the identified directions, which are important but long - known in world technology, such as the burning of low-cosort coal, have been absorbed by drilling. So among the topics given are the themes of old, familiar, and new. It is not only here that it is important to gather the themes of those who have been called to a meeting with the Ministry of Science and Education, but to create Ukrainian technology and science-oriented operas in full and competitive transformation of primary materials into finished ready-to-eat products. We must also abide by the Law on Priorities and Technology. The committee proposes that the law be adopted in the first reading. We will study each subject in detail, putting them together in a more unified way. There will be new fundamental topics that belong to Ukraine. It is very important that the Supreme Council agree not only on the names of the topics but also understand where they are located, so that MPs can assist institutions and authors in their funding organization specifically in their committees and districts. I wanted more on. The end before thanking you for your attention is to illustrate the number of scientific institutions we have in Ukraine. Honourable MPs and Honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are 213 pages in this folder, on each of the 213 pages there are five institutions, including 1,050 branch institutions, which are part of the ministries. There are 18 folders of scientific institutions that are part of the various academic institutes that are in Ukraine. In each folder, for example, there's 5 pages, on each page there's 5 institutions, there's another 450 institutions. So Ukraine as a whole has more than one and a half thousand scientific institutes, there's a lot to work with and someone to work with. I repeat, the committee asks for the law to be adopted in the first reading, and by the second reading, we will make a substantial improvement in it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u38	Thank Igor Raphaelovich. Honorable colleagues are questions to Igor Raphaelovich? Yes. Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Lechchenko, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u39	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Igor Rafailovich, indeed the amount of money is extremely small to expand them, but in an agro-industrial complex of extremely narrow places, we can't grow grain crops because of drought, you know, millions of hectares are going to burn, so we need irrigation, here's technology, and technology and so on. And the second question is, we can't raise the crop because we don't have our own technology, we support a foreign producer. How do you feel about the problem of a domestic harvester? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u40	I take a very positive view of the problem of the country’s combine. I want to tell you that I have a very good friend, the chief engineer of the Rosilmash Combin factory, who agreed for Ukraine to make various improvements to the combine nodes, because all the main combine nodes that were produced in the Soviet Union were produced in Ukraine, and were actually assembled in Rostov. As a result, Ukraine has a great deal of work in the construction of its combines. But what I'm trying to say is that our technique, from the point of view of sowing and ending with combines, is that it's still a long way from foreign technology from the point of view of the neatness and reliability of its operation. I want to make you notice that not only did the machine builders, the metalworks, the metallurgy give bad metal to the builders, and the construction materials don't handle the right loads. There's a whole problem that we have to solve. But I feel very positive about this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u41	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u42	Ah, irrigation. I'm sorry. You know, when you look at the crops that are in Europe and America, Germany is producing 70 centrifuges from a hectare of wheat and it gives a lot of different supplements. Americans get 15 to 16 centrifuges out of a hectare because their agriculture is very dangerous and it has droughts and everything. Well, how about any weather conditions? Americans believe that growing a large crop on lands where climate disasters may occur has no special purpose. I think that Ukraine too should take a very careful look at the so - called natural harvest. Natural crops are crops that can be solved on Ukraine's land with normal agrotechnics without fertilizer, without irrigation, and so on. For every area it's not small, it's much higher than any country in Europe. And that's why we should mean irrigation is certainly an important thing, but returning to natural crops with a very good agrotechnics of land processing is also an important and relevant problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u43	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u44	Reverend Igor Raphaelovich, I do not cease to admire your beautiful, wise and selfless daughterhood. It's beautiful, and it's good that you are. Once we were with you, you convinced us, and I also believed that one of those panics that we have today in the Ukrainian State is a free zone, or a special economic zone. Today, we can be with you, my dear, to say that because of each point or larger economic zone, it is either the peak of an oligarch or a group portrait of one or the other clan. Virtually free economic zones have become a black hole that drains the last energy out of Ukraine. The great idea that we've supported in our time is your idea of these tech parks. There's this kind of technology in my district in the Yavorov region. It's a wonderful idea, everything you've convinced yourself of. But, unfortunately, it doesn't hurt you, but it doesn't have any real, tangible results, let's say. Where's the exit? Our beautiful intentions, your beautiful ideas break down into very low, very often simply a criminal execution system. Where is the way out of all this, Igor Raphael, the high and the wise? If you know, tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u45	I think it's a way out of tolerance. The thing is that Ukraine doesn't get the external investment needed, and the internal investment we don't have, unless we return the capital of our capitalists from abroad to the middle of the state to rebuild the state. And that's why we have to give a variety of benefits, we have to create technology parks and special economic zones in order to develop production. Now it's about tech parks. In all parts of the world, technology parks have an incubation period. The incubation period usually lasts from 5 to 6 years, and after that the park begins to produce good results. The technology we have in Ukraine is no more than two years old. And that's why we have to be patient. I realize that there are a variety of companies that want to be able to benefit from income tax and value added taxes. But I can assure you, Mr. Alexander, that everything is going to work out, and we're going to study the technology at the end of the day, and it's going to go well. We need to be patient.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u46	National Deputy Dry, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, and we're done. [[United]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u47	Igor Raphaelovich. I have a question for you as a professional of the First Deputy Head of the Committee. You know what a bitter fate a law that doesn't depend on its implementation on a basic law. So I have a question for you as a professional in the tactics of adopting this law. There is Bill 0915 on Innovation. Maybe we can adopt this first, because we don't have another law that defines how to support the priorities of innovation. Maybe that's the way the committee's supposed to go?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u48	True enough, I have to go to Vladimir Mikhailovich and ask for the law on innovation to be applied to the Supreme Council of the past Sunday. And he was looking forward to his time, and so he wasn't considered. He should be considered before this law. So I would like to ask that right now, under this law, we could, say, on Friday or when, consider the law on innovative activity so that this law can be, or laid down, simple. Huh?Oh, my God! I forgot. Yes, thank you, Stanislav. That is, the law on innovation is under consideration and the vote is due to take place on Thursday. So on Thursday we're going to adopt that law, we're going to adopt that law in the first reading, and we're going to have cards in our hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u49	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Dear colleagues! Is there anyone who would like to make a statement on this matter? Please sign up. Please, Pavlovsky’s national deputy. He'll be followed by the Blackyak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable Predestination! Honorable Government! Honorable deputies! I want to say that in order to develop an innovative direction in the state, it takes not cards in hand, but money. And to do that, if we're talking about legislative security, we need to first adopt the law of internal and foreign policy or the principles of national interest, and then all of the other chains, because under the monetary economic policy that our government today is based on, the innovation process is impossible in principle, we need to base the innovation and economic theory of Michael Tugan-Baranovsky, which is at the heart of all developed countries, but not in Ukraine. I once wrote an article in the encyclopedia on the innovation process and it turns out that 2 percent of the innovation process in Ukraine. So this is possible, you can write anything. However, as far as this law is concerned, which is what I'm paying attention to. The final product is not clearly written here. We can spend millions of years doing things, but that's not going to make sense, because we don't have any final product. They buy the final product. So in each of these chapters. I'd like to deny Vladimir Yavorowski. There are several directions, but you can see that the smaller the direction the larger, the more money is needed. And that's why we really need to go into detail because we don't have the money. And now, relatively really, energy conservation comes first. But what is the special feature? I used to deal with this problem with Julia Timoshenko. Germany, the United States of America, 40 percent of electricity is strong and functional and in Ukraine, 2 percent. So if we don't make an electricity bill for the energy sector, there's not going to be any energy saving. An elemental base of strength and functional electronics is also needed in the world. This should be integrated into a suitable program. But by the way, this isn't reflected in this program, so I'm reflecting what should be functionally developed and strong electronics for energy systems, other refinements in this area. And in terms of, for example, chapter two, "Aircraft Space Technology" is very cleverly written in the law, only logistical support, and you need to understand, dear friends, new technology without State support, the innovation process is in principle impossible, so there is a need for legislative and budgetary support for these directions. And in the end, let's say the third direction is the electronic branch. [[I already have to finish.]] What's the target? To service foreign technology and technology. And Ukraine, by the way, was the first in Europe in 1937 to produce electronic computing technology, and today it's not producing anything. And there's an elementary base. Japan has spent $100 billion on developing an image computer, and Ukraine is ahead of Japan without money. So we need to put this final technique here. I'm not going to talk about other specific things, but one of the key things that we've missed today in Europe is the global and regional radio navigation systems that include satellite systems that are radio-location, autonomous and other. So when I was -- I'm finishing -- literally 20 seconds -- when was the international conference on this point, the chief manager of the European system offered to buy everything for us, and when I asked, "Can you call space states in Europe, except Russia?'," he put Ukraine first. So, by the way, I asked you to do it and you need to do it here. Finally, this law requires a second article. The first is a list, and the second is an article that gives organizational and legislative direction. I mean, the Cabinet of Ministers will provide state support for innovation in development and. the final product. Not aggregates, tractors, tractors, and combines. In these directions, it is possible to create technology parks, financial and industrial groups and a government order that is not available in Ukraine. In the United States, under new technology, 20 percent of GDP is a government order for innovation. Thank you for your attention. I propose a law to be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u51	Thank you. National Deputy Assadchev, who was handed the word to the national deputy of Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Head. I am very grateful to the deputy of Pavlovské Mikhail Antonovich for mentioning the figurative computer. I want to tell you that the computer-like program was created in two years by Ukrainian scientists in spite of any harassment of officials, contrary to what the Academy of Science wanted, and contrary to any programs, directions, laws, regulations and so on. This was simply done on the initiative and whoever was in the Ukrainian House a week ago saw real examples of this computer technology, which is not really in the world. So I want to tell you that this law, except for the damage, will not give anything else. So what are the main directions, what do you need them for? Imagine that the law will be passed and in a week in a wise Ukrainian head there will be some new know-how, what will he do then? He'll go to the officials, the clerk will show him the law, he'll say, you see, by 2005, they've confirmed the directions and go wait till 2006. So they trampled on their paths, now they decided to legally secure them. And I want to tell you that in four years, I've been to Parliament, never once on this rostrum, I've never put up a real concrete program. This program, let's say, energy efficiency, we gave a metallurgical tax benefit complex. For three years they've been using these benefits, there should be an upgrade to the core funds, there should be a decrease in energy efficiency. Where was this program? There was no program. Where the money went is unknown and so on. The energy saving program. Everyone's talking about it, no one's ever come out on this stand with this particular program, who's got to implement it, how it's classified, how much it takes every year for this money, how it's to be controlled and so on and so forth. So I would like to suggest that you honor Vasil Grigorovitch and Igor Rafailovich most of all, dear friends, let us not make these barriers for ourselves and for our scientists. Let's bring a specific program to this rostrum at least once. So the combo -- let's bring out the combo, how much money it takes to put into the budget, how much production it's going to be, what cycle it's going to produce, how it's going to be implemented, with specific parameters, with specific costs. So if we adopt the law, believe me, it's a law for an official, it's to limit the initiative of our scientists, because by 2005, we're going to set our own barriers, and we're going to do it on our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. Are they insisting? We've also recorded national deputies Solomon and Nikolaynka, are you insisting on the performance? National MP. One minute, it's over. People's solomatin will be followed by a national MP named Nikolaynko. And we'll finish. Igor Raphaelovich asks for a closing word to be said.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u54	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, as a whole, the bill has been proposed, it responds to what is defined in the programme of activities that we have received with you. Chapter 1.3 of the Innovation Model states: In 2002, the legislative definition of the basic principles of the national innovation system is enshrined in the draft Innovation Act, which has been moving between the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine since 1999. If we finally vote in favour of this bill next Thursday, and next time the President doesn't veto it, then we'll have some guidance on how to proceed. The Government's 2003-2004 activity programme provides for the prioritization of the development of the innovation sphere, giving priority to promising technologies and innovative projects. This is what Bill 1148, which we are currently considering. But what I want to say is, to a very large extent, he, this bill, is in conjunction with the Ukrainian Law on Priorities for Science and Technology. And it would be very useful if they, both of these bills, corresponded to each other so that we don't later have contradictions in applying both of these laws. And some specific things. Fellow Pavlovsky has already drawn our attention to the fact that we are beginning with the main activities that will enable us to achieve economic growth first. Economic growth depends to some extent on what the mineral raw material base of the state is. Let us draw your attention to our neighboring Russian Federation. More than half of the budget for today is based on the wealth associated with the use of nadr. There are also some lines in the Ukrainian Act on Priorities for Innovation in Ukraine for the period up to 2005. This is about predicting the formation of drilling oil - gas equipment and drilling tools for congested wells. But that is not all. And you have to figure out where this equipment needs to be used and where you can maybe drill the wells in a way that you can get what's in the top if it's there. So I think it would be very useful to define another direction that precedes this drilling, which is modern geophysical equipment, aerophysical methods, seismic methods. Ukraine once had its own Geophys device factory, and now these tendencies are already ruined and do not exist, even though some human potential remains. So I would suggest that this section should also include the provision of physical research resources to Ukraine using, creating and using modern geophysical equipment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u55	National Deputy Nikolaynko of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Since the rules seem to be running out, I am literally a few moments away. I'd like to address all the speakers today and say that the discussion that was happening today in this room, in principle, was repeated earlier in our committee. Both academics, and Sitnik in particular, emphasized the same shortcomings of this law. But I want to go to the deputies, to Assad Valery, and to Yuri, and now I've been speaking, my colleagues, to say that we've also been concerned about such thoughts. But as a result of that discussion, we think we have come up with such a compromising decision that we still need to approve, to adopt this law as a basis, as a colleague of Pavlovsky here called, 100 billion directs, let's say, to science the same Japan, and unfortunately we can't boast about it. And we can boast about what we did last year, 516 million for development this year, and 570 million for our scientists abroad. And if you don't get that kind of dispersion, it means we're not going to achieve anything at all. So we don't have a way out today to set priorities. They're not going to be 40-45, as it says. They're going to be 4-5. Today Russia has about 5-6, other countries also have 3-4 priorities. But what Valérie Assadchev said doesn't mean that if a scientist has an interesting subject, an interesting direction, it doesn't mean that we won't finance it and we won't allow it to develop. On the contrary, you will come to our committee, and we will support you in this. Because we have hundreds and thousands of directions to science and technology. And we define a few. And it's about priorities. Without concentrating these efforts, we will not be able to move forward. And that's why I'm proposing. First. I repeat what I have said to the distinguished Igor Raphailovich. We need to get the Innovation Act approved immediately. It was approved by the last Supreme Council. The president made proposals. We've all counted them. He's been re-adopted, sent to him, he's vetoing again. We don't know why it's veto anymore because we've taken it all into account. I think the next law will be adopted, and this law goes into the development of the Innovation Act, and we'll have total positive. I propose that we accept it in the first reading of A when we work on it, taking into account all the suggestions that have been made here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u57	Thank you. The national deputy Yavorowski insists for one minute. Please. Yavorovsky is written for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I've come up to say from this, a question that we're discussing three as fundamental things to me. First. Because of our distinction, because of our differences in this room, we rarely make very specific political and legislative decisions. And that's very often used, and that's actually what the executive is waiting for, is just such a rash, indecisive decision. The second thing I was going to say. I am absolutely convinced that, of course, this law is necessary and I will vote for it. But I would just consider it very appropriate for the Committee on Science to be definitively determined, and in this very difficult economic situation to determine a few, two, three, no more possible, I'm not here to report to Pavlovsky, two, three of those directions that Ukraine can very quickly break through. Where we have the biggest jobs, where we have a scientific base, where there is a technology base, that's where we direct the money. Because in 11 years, there is nothing we can say today that Ukraine has given such a new one. In addition to the fact that vodka produces the most important product in Ukraine today. And the third. I think the reason we haven't broken through is because we've practically transformed the Innovation Fund, where this pathetic money is flowing, but we're merging, we've made it completely uncontrollable both by the Supreme Council and by the same executive power. I can ask you a very simple question right now, I was asking Igor Rafailovich about technology parks. The idea is brilliant, and for Ukraine it's absolutely lifesaving even, I would call it, but I'm asking the question: why is it that all the tech parks are, in fact, barely living today, and that tech park that Mr. Seminozhenko is looking after, that technology park is flourishing today? Because of this, I am absolutely convinced that we need, Igor Rafailovich, maybe to create such a committee of deputies, it won't hurt, and just to check how this money is being used that we're taking away from the pensioners today, from some other of our branches, and to check how it's being done rationally. If we do, I think we can solve this clot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u59	The closing word of Igor Raphaelovich Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! The committee is very grateful for the consideration of the matter and requests that the law be adopted in the first reading. We're going to change the subject in a way that is said by Deputy Solomonine, as he said it begins from raw material, to the finished product, to the car, or to the device. This also applies to the ground. This also refers to metal, this also refers to the innovative potential of Ukraine. Moreover, I would like to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich that we can make parliamentary readings about innovation in Ukraine in the fall, this is a very important moment. And last but not least, it's very important. Conducting, introducing science and scientific innovation into production is a top priority for Ukraine. I think so. That now is the time to make administrative transformations and re-establish the Committee of Science and Technology or the Ministry of Science and Technology, as it is the Russian Federation, it would be very wise for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is concluded, and the decision will be taken in accordance with the Rules on Thursday. A draft Law on the Right to Ownership of Certain Property is being submitted for consideration. Reporter of Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 20 September last year, the Cabinet of Ministers drafted a bill on the right of ownership of certain types of property, taking into account the previous consideration of this issue that took place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is proposed for your consideration. The drafting of this bill has resulted in a specific circulation of certain types of property to be controlled by the State in the person empowered by it. The bill aims to ensure both the personal security of individuals living in the territory of Ukraine and the level of internal security of the State as a whole. This law must be a comprehensive normative act. It is general in relation to laws that have already been passed, and it has become effective in regulating the legal regime of certain types of property whose circulation is limited in the Ukrainian commodity market. In particular, this is about laws such as the circulation in Ukraine of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors, the Law on Measures against the Illicit Circumvention of Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors, the Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, the Law on the Animal World, the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Transport and some other laws that have special rules that apply to certain types of property that may pose a threat to citizens and the State. The law on the right of ownership of individual types of property lays down the legal principles for the exercise of ownership of these types of property, the course of which is limited in Ukraine. The bill contains a list of objects that can be held exclusively in state property. Thus, the bill provides that only state property, in addition to cases defined by special laws and provided for in Ukraine's international treaties, will be subject to the obligation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to weapons and ammunition, combat and special military equipment, missile-space complexes and special composites for their production, explosives, explosives, explosives and triggering explosions, narcotics, psychotropic substances, precursors, anti-lock installations, state standards of units of physical value, operational equipment for systems of non-verbal operational-exploiting operations, electrical devices and special means of use of active defence, applied by law enforcement agencies, radio-electronic warfare, nuclear installations, tematological devices, as well as the use of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. This also applies to the monuments of archaeology, including those under water, including the associated moving objects, regardless of the form of ownership of the territory or water object on which they are located. This also applies to submerged areas within the Ukrainian territorial waters, the property of transport enterprises, which is a state property and is part of a single transport system of the State, relates to animal products belonging to the natural resources of State importance, as well as to the value of the historical foundation of precious metals and precious stones in Ukraine, printed production funds and databases of the Ukrainian Book House, as well as property rights that are not subject to privatization. The adoption of this bill should be a step in the creation of a mechanism to ensure the internal security of the state. Today, this issue is regulated by a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was adopted on June 17, 1992, with the exact same name, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, these issues should be governed solely by the laws of Ukraine. Acting on the requirement of the Constitution and of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers is introducing the proposed draft law for your consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! Any questions to the reporter? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Dry, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u64	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporizka District 79, faction of SDPU. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have a question for this bill, so to speak, conceptual. Finally, as a high-ranking official, please tell me whether it does guarantee this law, or whether it removes it -- this bill -- is now an existing violation of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where the legal regime of ownership is determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. I mean, do I understand the very concept of this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. Of course, this is a basic package, and I have stopped at this point that we, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, have to regulate the legal regime of property solely by the laws of Ukraine. Today it is regulated, this property regime, by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Constitution requires us to replace the existing order of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u66	National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u67	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, according to international standards and the hierarchy of property in general, is clearly defined today as a list of state property. We today have big property gaps that should be conceptually defined. For example, there is no law on treasury property so far, and the list is approved in the Cabinet of Ministers. Today you claim ownership of certain types of activity, the Act on the Management of State Property Objects, we have only adopted in this room in the first reading, the Law on Communal Property Management, but only adopted or analysed the Ministry's failures that we have today in legislation in the need of enacting a particular law, not just that which you report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u68	Thank you for the question and I want to tell you that we have conducted special monitoring over the last few months on the state of legislative security of what is required by the Constitution, because your question is also about the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine, and I hope that next week we will present this list of arguments to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u69	National MP Bespali, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u70	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Alexandre Volodymyrovich, there is a form of property, as is often the case with legislators and government officials, that is municipal property, that is, the property of territorial communities of cities and 142 articles of the Constitution, even the property of territorial communities of districts in cities, is such a form. Please tell us what your position is and in terms of this bill and in general about expanding the capacity of territorial communities to own property that you are excluded from state property. This seems to me to be a promising direction, we need to develop self-government and the capacity of the territorial communities in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u71	Thank you for the question, I want to say that it's in the area that's in touch with what I've just reported, of course, that local self-government in Ukraine has to be provided with adequate resources and property, including, and we have a law with you that regulates the transfer of property from state property to utility, but this bill, which is proposed for consideration, is about very specific types of property that pose a threat to people and to society as a whole, it's about regulating the use of this property. I've done a little bit of listing, but just to be clear, it's nuclear materials, explosives, psychotropic substances, electronic intelligence, and so on, something that can't be in communal property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u72	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, time is up, thank you. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments, will act as a follow-up. Please, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u73	Honourable People's Deputies, the draft Law “On the Right of Property to Certain Property”, registration No. 1143, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council in June this year, is being submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration by the Supreme Council. The draft Law “On the Right to Belong to Certain Property” provides for the settlement of ownership of certain types of property, which entails a significant potential risk to the life and health, environment and security of the State, provides a clear list of individual types of property to which the limitation of ownership is imposed, establishes a special procedure for the acquisition of property of such types of property, and establishes a special procedure for the acquisition of ownership rights by the law of Ukraine to other individual types of property not specified in the articles of the Act. The draft should replace the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation of 17 June 1992 on the right of ownership of certain types of property, since the resolution of those matters did not comply with article 92, paragraph 7, of the Ukrainian Constitution, which established that the legal regime of ownership was governed solely by the laws of Ukraine. And here the question of Deputy Suhogo was perfectly legitimate. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Office, in its opinion of 26 June this year, indicated that the Ukrainian Project on the Right of Property to Certain Property may be adopted on first reading as a basis, taking into account the comments made by the Office. I must say that the comments are substantial. Returns, have a basis and can be taken into account in the second reading. Therefore, the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Instinctives, at its meeting on 18 June, having considered the draft law, decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it as a basis for its first reading. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u74	Thank you. Is there a question? None. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who wants to speak in the discussion of this bill? If they're desirable, please sign up. Are there no wanters? Are they desirable? Put it on the board, please. National Deputy Seminouk Valentina Petrovna, head of the Privatization Control Commission, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u75	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear fellow national MPs! Mr. Lavrinović's answer to my question is that, at many times, we need to carry out our legislative work first from considering the parameters that are necessary in terms of the definition that laws should be, and from the fact that we do not yet have a clear definition of the legislation that is not fixed on the subject of treasury property and municipal property management. And one of those kinds of activities says that it is necessary to adopt this law as quickly as possible. That's the first one. The other one. There is another interesting detail to consider. We, the Privatization Control Commission, today, have to deal with a lot of letters coming from public organizations that have actually become the object of acceptance of that property that was acquired from the former Soviet Union of Public Organizations and those organizations that have generated property at the expense of contributions. And that also needs to be settled. So the adoption of such a bill first of all, with the scientific expertise of the department, is essential. I think they're going to be worked out. But there is another such detail, and I would like it to be written as a protocol assignment. We don't have a legal basis for criminal property today. According to the Cabinet of Ministers, this list is approved, that is, a standard. With regard to individual subjects of state property rights, as defined in article two, paragraph two of the bill, the same rule is applied again to the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like this list to be completed necessarily "with a list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization." The Supreme Council has been authorized to list objects that are not subject to privatization approved by the session hall. The same list should be approved or at least accepted in accordance with Parliament. The point of this proposal is that as we now deal with objects that are common and passed on from the former Soviet Union or social organizations, it is a battle ground for individual groups. So I think this bill needs to be worked out. The Special Monitoring Commission will send its basic proposals, taking into account that we are. There was less work on the review board and more transparency in the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u76	Question completed. Decision-making in accordance with the Rules will take place on Thursday. Dear colleagues, this is the draft of the Ordinance on the Allocation of Funds from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Reserve Fund for the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which took place from 23 to 24 June 2002 in Žitomirsk, Hmeljna, Vinnitsk and a number of other areas of Ukraine. Rapporteur, national deputy, Zebrovsky Pavel Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u77	Paul Zebravsky, 65 constituency, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this is the Supreme Council's decree on the allocation of funds from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund to eliminate the consequences of the natural disaster, which took place from 23 to 24 June 2002 in Žitomirsk, Hmielnicki, Vinnitsky and a number of other areas. On June 23-24 of this year, a storm broke through the territory of Ukraine, causing a real disaster. In the Zitomirské, Vinnitské, Hmelnické and a number of other areas, more than 1,300 settlements were destroyed, especially in the Zitomirsk region. Yes, only previous estimates of urban infrastructure and rural areas have resulted in losses of more than 8 million dollars, and over 15 million dollars have been destroyed and damaged. For example, in the city of Berdichov, more than 2,000,100 homes were destroyed. 11 kindergartens. In fact, all schools. A boarding house for the elderly, boarding school, a hospital for the veterans of the Great Homeland War of the City Hospital. Part of the city's water supply has been cut down, more than a thousand trees down. Power lines with a voltage of 110 kilowatts and a large number of urban electricity lines have been destroyed. At the expense of the city’s budget, it is simply not possible to restore the city’s viability. In Ruženski, Berdičivski, Zudnowski, Luberski, and a number of other areas of the Žitomir region, more than 20,000 hectares were destroyed and damaged. In some villages, crops have been completely destroyed, and there is no food. Citizens who live from harvest to harvest without months of wages are actually on the verge of survival. Self - repairing buildings and crop damage are simply impossible. Taking into account the above, as well as the social orientation of the work of the Supreme Council, I would like to ask your distinguished colleagues to support the draft decree and help our fellow countrymen to survive. By supporting this decision, we will confirm with you the thesis that we do not have a nation for the state, but a nation for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, obviously the issue is clear and there is no need to discuss it. Thank you. On Thursday, we will be determined to make a decision on this decision. This concludes the discussion. Dear colleagues, the draft law amending articles 34 and 35 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine is on assistants. Consultants of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Reporters, National Deputy of Ukraine Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u79	Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the Presidency, the people's deputies, I would like to draw attention to the fact that today there are complications in ensuring the activities of the people's deputies. They're going in two directions, and that's what I want to talk about, and it's two articles: 34th and 35th. This has happened, and it will be clear from my subsequent speech that there were two laws at the same time: the status of the national MP and the Service Act in the local authorities. By the way, on the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the President vetoed, we took some of his proposals into account and even overcame the veto. So this law today has power, well, and parallel to another law too. I think that many deputies have already faced this problem. We have the right under the law to have four assistant consultants as a civil servant, but to do so, we have to assign this status. Further, it is stated in the law that for human and financial security we can fortify the people's deputies, namely, today, two in the Supreme Council, and others to state-owned enterprises, executive committees, local self-government bodies, the city council of Kiev, Sevastopol. But when we started doing that, we faced what the Kiev City Council said was, "And we can't secure government officials." That's why we settle this issue in such a way that when your assistant counsellor has the status of a civil servant, he's only secured for financial security to the relevant authorities, and there's no problem when he doesn't have that status, so we're fixing him up, we're proposing in law to secure all 4 first from the Supreme Council's apparatus, and the head of the Apparatus is assigning him according to the law to the proper rank that you're assigning to the Law, and then you can leave him here for financial security, if it's up to you or the district where you're comfortable. What's more, we suggest, depending on your convenience, those consulting assistants who are not civil servants, but they are working on a contract, and they can also be attached to the Supreme Council for maintenance. So we're subtracting these restrictions and so we're settling all of the colossal issues that are emerging today. That's one group of questions about the bill I'm going to introduce we're not touching our proposal for the number of assistant consultants yet. The main thing is that we solve this problem legally. And the second question that's going to touch so many national MPs. The Law on Status states that national deputies should be on a permanent basis provided with adequate housing. And there are two ways to solve this problem, or the national deputy submits an application and requires monetary compensation accordingly to be able to buy, buy an apartment in Kiev, or the second part he submits and requires service housing. But there is such a conflict. The bill states in article 35 that regardless of the place of permanent residence, a national MP is entitled to receive a one - time payment to create the right conditions. And now it turns out that according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was adopted in 1992, this compensation goes to you as income and comes from all taxes. And just to be clear, if you apply for three family members by standard, there will be taxes left for two. And that's going to be a little bit. Well, I get that part. Because everything is taxed together. So we suggest in this article 35 that it goes to the local self-governance authorities, we suggest just one word in Article 35, let's say, before. Today’s one - time monetary compensation is written. We suggest inserting the word "expense" and then these costs go completely without taxing your problem, because it comes out here, you know, yes. Because in the law in force we just can't solve this problem in principle, it's quite expensive. Here's all the changes we're proposing in our law to ensure the normal activity of Ukrainian national deputies. I've got everything. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u80	Thank you. The question is to the reporter? If there is, please sign up. Please point it on the board. National MP Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u82	National MP Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u83	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I fully support the ideas you make about increasing the number of helpers. It's perfectly understandable and all the approaches. But I have a question. So let's say I'm an MP from Majority County, I have seven rural regions, and that's pretty much Belgium from the Black Sea to Azovsky, Kahovsky and so on. You understand there's an MP who has one district, I don't judge him, so it turns out, you show me how to keep one bet today, two bets, and in Kiev a man, I at least have to have 9-10 people today to close it all. I can't give more than 150 or 200 dollars to these people today, and who's going to be working in jobs like this today, and we're going to have to take that into account, but what the helpers need is not just the number, but something with the pay. Because we take so many human economists, lawyers, they help to form a legal society in the state, and they can't actually pay for that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u84	I thank you, Mr. Stanislaw, today this is not part of the subject of these changes, but I know that there are already statements from the National Deputies in our committee and yours today can be added to the fact that it is necessary to regulate the salary and ensure the activities of the National Deputy, because for many years we have not reviewed this question and today we are really coming to such a state that we are giving the Assistants less, the minimum wage will not be given, but the less subsistence minimum, so the question is, it is already mature and we will think that your today, through the transcript, we will join in, the question will consider, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u85	Thank you. National Deputy Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, faction of our Ukraine. My dear reporter, I wanted to ask you a question, and as you consider whether or not, I think the only correct order issued by the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, where I wrote that normal certificates should be issued, and four men should be fastened, as evidenced, and how you take into account that all the time it comes out and goes by people with humiliating cards that are written on a temporary certificate that is nowhere in any body of authority, are actually looking at it as a goat's poster is looking at, so we are looking around at all institutions. And this is what's done is saving the situation right now. How would you like to consider this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u87	Yuri Alexanderovich, we should thank the Head for making the right and bold decision, but his orders today run counter to the law. So we must immediately accept these changes, and we will sort this out, and the actions of the Head of the Supreme Council will then become fully legal. So thank you for asking, and thank you to the Head for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u88	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u89	Thank you. Mikhail Antonovich, I have a question for you as one of the most experienced majors, and now the Ukrainian national deputy behind the lists. However, I'm going to go over to Nikolayn's question, please tell me your attitude as to the relevance of differentiation of the status of assistant consultant, because the district is in a similar situation, and then the assistant counsellor of the principal MP, and the deputy who followed the party lists, do you think it's still appropriate to continue the work on differentiation of the status of assistant consultant, or will we continue to follow the system of comparison?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u90	Mr. Jaroslav, I have an answer. I'm having a conversation today within the two articles I'm talking about, but there's going to be a lot of suggestions. The committee head will be speaking, and he'll be paying attention, there's a second part of the proposal, just these questions that. So I don't want to take bread from him, and he's the answer, you know, that a lot of MPs have made proposals, just out of these problems, and he'll report it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time. Oh, one more question. Infantry National Deputy, faction. European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u92	Thank you. That's my question. I'm already a third party MP, I've been back in Soviet times, then when democracy has developed now. You asked for compensation. Tell them about those who live in Kiev and have a large family. Maybe I don't have meters to go, but for others, can I ask the questions, not those living in the areas, but those living in Kiev, about compensation or housing?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u93	Thank you. I have already made the third call, as you have, and I want to say that we have, indeed, acted in such a way that those deputies who did not have an apartment have been given, and those who have or have received a large family today are placed in a difficult situation. That is why the Regulatory Committee today treats all deputies equally and seeks to create normal conditions for all deputies, including China. That's why we solved the problem first, who we needed, who we gave the apartments, and now to the new MPs, it's like we're going like this, that we need all the deputies to create normal conditions for work and activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u94	Thank you, Michael Antonovich, time is up. Dear colleagues, we will continue to consider this issue after a recess. Break to 12:30 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! We're continuing our work. The next co-reporter of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine will be National Deputy of Ukraine Noshchenko Mikola Petrovich. Is there a National Deputy Noshchenko? Please identify the national deputies of Chicanov, Jółtak, Orzhachowski, Dobkin, Sharov, Petrov, Alexandrian.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u96	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable members of the Bureau. They are present to avoid criticism by voters that we are now in the midst of a matter of great national importance, such as harvesting, overincurring debt. We're talking about the assistant, I'll point out the following. The requirement of the Law, laws and regulations, in particular those governing the organization of the work of the National MP to create the right conditions today, can be found to be unfulfilled. This is true of questions, both from the premises and to the questions of communication of information technology and so forth, especially in the case of the national deputies of majorities, who daily, I will especially speak of myself receiving 10 or 15 letters from the electorates of institutions, institutions, and these issues are resolved solely by the power of helpers. The existing system, which has been created for years, works in such a way that the problems in the district of the corresponding committee to which we are attached today have no bearing. There are several issues that have been raised. First. This is the number of assistants to the National Deputies, the number of assistant advisors to government officials, and the number of assistant consultants to staff financial services. The project developed by National Deputy Suškević and I are dealing with the issue of attaching an assistant consultant. Two aspects. For all regions, it is suggested that helpers may be in the state not only of state institutions but may be in the state of public, disabled, and veteran organizations. Another aspect. Assistants to the National MPs who work in Kiev under a fixed-term contract of employment and for whom this work is essential, are invited not to limit their number to two national deputies, which is the norm today. Let me explain in more detail. The previous reporter said that today there was a contradiction between the Laws on the Status of the People’s Deputy, the Law on State Service. But there is a contradiction between the Law on Status and the Supreme Council decree approving the Regulations concerning the Assistant Counselor. In particular, article 34 provides that two assistant advisors of the National MP are attached to the Supreme Council, and the position says that everyone can be attached to personnel and financial services. And these two standards are working today. Practice shows that these differences tend to apply the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, each of you has experienced it. Only two men can be attached to the Supreme Council, regardless of whether it is government officials or simply under a contract. In this regard, changes that I have just said are proposed, and the adoption of the bill does not require additional costs from the State Budget. Please support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Any questions? None. Is it? Well, please sign up. Light up, please. National Deputy King, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u98	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question like that. We're actually making such substantial changes and these changes are designed to improve the work, first of all, the deputies themselves, because the assistant is the right hand of the deputy and does a lot of work, and I, as a senior, feel like a second term, from the quality of the assistants and the quality of my work. But I did have this question that some very experts want to work as assistants to the national MPs, but we're limited by age. That is, as a result of the State Service Act, an assistant to a national MP cannot be on a permanent basis if he is of the right age. But this does not prevent him from working with us, and I would like that question to be answered as to whether he can be settled. I have some suggestions, I'll put them in the legislative order, but I'd like to know if you support this restriction as a ban on having such an assistant consultant in the form of the 4 that we've already defined? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u99	I understand it's about the assistant consultant who's in the public service. I think it's going to be subject to the State Service Act for the extension of the State Service to 65 and, in exceptional cases, more. I think that's going to be the case, and it's a specific individual question for a national MP. The State Service, I think it will consider and support our proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u100	National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u101	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear reporter! I'm right here, look. Tell me, please, how did you particularly study this question, how did you react to the fact that there were now 15 assistants allowed to have a national MP, you suggest 27 plus 4, right? Isn't that your committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u102	No, it's another bill, another national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u103	We've been looking, I've been in committee work, but this is a subject of another project, and I don't want to touch it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u104	People's deputy Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u105	Jaroslav Kenzior, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear reporter, each of the proposed draft amendments to the People's Deputy Status Act, of course, improves the existing law to some extent. Obviously, there is a need to increase the total number of assistant references, that is, much more than 15, to which we are entitled today under this law. And have you considered as one of the project's authors the possibility of an increase of at least one or two people from this total number of associate referees who have the right to be a civil servant and the corresponding increase in the financial costs of the National MP's activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u106	We are not affected by the changes that we have proposed with the people’s MP Suškević. But I took part in the committee meeting and expressed my opinion about the number of deputies and I have my own opinion. Because 15 for me as a major today is enough, I have five districts in the district, one seat and enough. But whoever's going around the multi-mandatory district, they're asking for permission to have one assistant at each district center. That means there will be 425 helpers at each district center. That's the question. And as for the increase today, I think the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council, we're sitting here. We have to get out of financial capacity, if this is the case, then of course we have to pay more to involve more skilled people. That's clear. But there is a measure in everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u107	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. Thank you. National Deputy of Ukraine Ciccanov Sergey Vladenović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u108	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! The substance of my draft law amending article 34 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine is what colleagues have already said today, to increase the number of assistant consultants allowed to have every Ukrainian national MP to 27. Why make such a proposal? I think that the main thing in our work, in the work of the deputies, is the connection with the people who sent us to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the voters who voted for us. Of course, we have a system of choice today, let's say, a half-time, mixed system, where there are deputies elected by party list and major MPs. Since there is a certain administrative and territorial division of Ukraine, it is therefore proposed that 27 consultants be appointed to each national deputy. In my view, any popular MP elected on a party list is entitled in each region to have his assistant consultant for the region to obtain the information he needs in his work. In doing so, we should not forget with you that all members of the people are equal, they have equal status, so in the same way, 27 assistant consultants should have major deputies. This does not entail the additional costs mentioned here today. This is all within the framework of the budget of the Supreme Council, which has been approved, although, of course, there are problems and they need to be considered in the future. I propose that the bill be considered in this way and that I ask that it be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u109	Thank you. The question is to the reporter? I can't see. Thank you. National Deputy Eugene Dmitrovich Jętjak
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! In my opinion, everyone in this room understands the essence of the question that is now being raised, that's the three main problems that exist, that's the number of people's deputies. The second question. Who's hiring? And the third question. How, how do you assign rank and category to those consulting assistants who work as civil servants? Article 34 of the Advisory Assistants of the People's Deputies Act of the People's Deputies Act provides that only two of the four assistant consultants may be assigned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for financial and personnel services at the Office of the Supreme Council, in contrast to the first edition of the Act, and that the other may be in the state of state-owned enterprises, institutions, organisations or at the request of the MP to be attached to the executive committees of the relevant local government body. At the same time, in accordance with article 3.3, paragraph 2, of the Regulations on Assistant Adviser to the People's Deputies, Assistant Adviser to the People's Deputies, Assistant Consultants to the People's Deputies, who work in Kiev under a fixed-term contract of employment, and for this work is the main one, according to which the National Deputy may be attached to the Human Resources and Financial Services of the Supreme Council. Article 26 of the State Service Act establishes that the rankings corresponding to the posts of the third and seventh categories are assigned to the head of the public authority in which the civil servant operates. In connection with the adoption of the Law on Service in Local Self-Government, local self-government authorities no longer have the right to assign rank to civil servants, because, first of all, according to article 2 of this Law, the official of local self-government is the person who works in local self-government bodies has the appropriate authority to carry out organizational and advisory functions and receives a salary at the expense of the local budget. Second, articles 14 and 15 on the classification of positions and rankings of officials in local self-government bodies provide that rankings are assigned only to those working in these bodies. Moreover, it was not determined in a state where there should be two assistant consultants from the four national deputies who were selected on party lists and did not have a designated constituency in a particular region. Thus, the assistant consultants of the National Deputies, who are in their actual status as guardians of the National Deputies, find themselves in a legal vacuum. Bill number 1083-9, in my opinion, is solving the major problems that have arisen before the people's deputies after the creation of these protective services of their own, in the recruitment of consulting assistant states, and in my opinion, the adoption of this law will solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Thank you. There's a question. Please sign in. Yes, please put it on the board. People's MP Gudima will be asking questions from the People's Deputy, Jódzik. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, one minute, there'll be a chance. Is there a Goodima national MP? Please. Don't you have any questions? None. People's MP, Jojik, faction of our Ukraine. You don't? Please, yours. National MP Borszewski, Ukrainian Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u112	Please tell me that there is such a problem right now, and the media sometimes thinks that that's why the people's deputy helps, that it's a waste of public money. But on the other hand, the main work of the deputy is to communicate with the electorate, depending on the training, the quality, so to speak, the professional assistant. And here is the question that these laws limit the ability to take experienced people who may be retired now, but have experience in dealing with complex issues. And in your opinion, today we should have solved the question and opportunities to take on professional, quality assistants' fees, their number and, most importantly, the age problem because it has to be solved? How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u113	My belief is that there is no need to save help at the work of a national deputy. Because I'm 3 vocations is a national MP from the same major constituency, and believe me, 180,000 voters are effectively working with them. With the limitations of the law in force, a national MP cannot get enough helpers to decide on these letters, appeals, personal receptions of citizens, nor can he properly acquire a number of assistants, such as government officials, because there are limitations in rank and category. So in fact, an assistant national deputy can rely on very responsible tasks, and he's like a first-class worker in the Supreme Council. Of course, rank and category should also be promoted. But I understand that this bill does not propose to increase the payroll fund. I mean, without even increasing the pay fund, just by deciding on the number issue, not limiting the number of civil servants, increasing the number of assistants working in the state, and increasing the number of assistants working in the same salary, you can solve the problems that exist in front of the national MPs during the election process, during the appeals, and while working on the drafts, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u114	National MP Mokchan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u115	Thank you. Mr. Eugene, I have a question for the Chief of the Supreme Council rather than for you. Because it's about the newly raised salaries of the Secretariat and the Secretarial staff up to 60 percent if I have reliable information. But it's about that. How can we increase our fund? And whether or not the number of deputies will vote, because those present in the Hall, I'm sure, will support this bill tomorrow, because it is essential to cooperate with the entire population of Ukraine that we represent in this sessionary room. And you know very well that in all other parliaments of the world, the number of helpers is enough to work actively with their constituencies. That's why my question is. Is it appropriate to ask the question of increasing the scope of the fund in general here and then to bind this bill with, of course, payment? And it is appropriate to ask questions before the Head, why not raise the salaries and the heads of committees and just the deputies if the salary for secretarial workers is raised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u116	In answer to my previous question, I would answer my own question. Which, of course, at large, would have to increase the cost of the helpers, because it's not the cost of the helpers, because that's the cost of the electorate. That is, to make it more effective to work on the requests of voters with whom they come to the individual receptions that they address in their written addresses. Of course, the number of appeals that will occur in the four years following the vocation, according to the state that is under the present law, is virtually impossible. So the voters remain dissatisfied. Raising the payroll, raising, and increasing the number of assistants will naturally improve this work. But that's a pretty sharp political question. We understand, of course, that the executive power, if we take the issue of an increase in the payroll fund, will be very much critical of that decision. So we've come up with a very complicated option: by not increasing the pay fund, by increasing the number of people we can get involved in the job. For example. Believe me, there are problems in some big village. voter acceptance, electoral work in a large village can be decided if there is an assistant with the status of assistant with the certification of an assistant who works on community grounds. And the present law limits the possibility of a national MP to have a helper in a large village.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u117	Thank you. I would also like to say that, to my firm conviction, we need to address the issue, starting with the increase in the wages of the people's deputies, then we will automatically address the issue of managers of other levels, including committee leaders. The same applies to the pay fund for assistant consultants of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. I don't think we can save up on that. And by following through on your decision, we have brought the Secretary's staff to the level of the apparatus. I'd like to say to your well-known, distinguished colleagues, that today the Supreme Council pays a salary to members of the 3rd General Assembly in the number of 111 people, as well as the 2nd General Assembly in the number of 11 people and the 1st General Assembly in the number of 7 people. I mean, there's a fund here, too, and we don't have an infinite salary. Next will be a report by the national deputy, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u118	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! I'm sorry, maybe I'll repeat it a little bit, because today we have this question of how problems are intertwined. That bill, which, in co-authorship with Ukraine’s national deputy, Samuelka Katherina Semenovna, we sent and proposed. He may have been hurt by former vocations and by those who worked properly in the regions as assistants to the national MPs and local self - government. Therefore, our bill, first of all, provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, paragraph 3 of article 34, part 3, concerning assistant consultants working in Kiev and attached to the personnel and financial services of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[But no more than 2 people.]] This calls for changes for today. That is, it's suggested to replace the word "two" with "four." The change in the number of National Counsellors to 4 is due, above all, to the fact that this is the total number of National Counsellors with the Public Service Act, and that it is only in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it is possible to assign them the rank of civil servant, rather than in local self-government. The purpose of the bill is to remove the contradiction and disagreement between the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. The proposed changes will facilitate the rapid resolution of the human resources and financial services of assistants to the National Deputies' Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill, as my colleagues and previous colleagues said, does not require additional costs from the State Budget. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u119	Thank you. Do you understand, Your Honor? Any questions? Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u120	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleague, I want you and I to think. I'm a major. And of course, the greater the number of helpers, the easier it is to work. But we may also be hiding from ourselves the possibility that the increase in the number of assistants who have the status of a civil servant, it's like right now, you know, a safe, soft, not an increase in wages, but we understand very well that it's a proper pension. So anyway, these costs are going to be the same. We're going out with you today, I think it's a very smart decision to give that status to four. It had not been regulated before: one law allowed four, but another law forbade it. Because, as you think, this idea that has now begun to float like this in the Supreme Council, about the need to raise wages and national MPs, and so automatically, as it were, will there be an increase in the wages for assistants, is it relevant today? I have a moral right to ask you this, because I'm the MP who only lives on MP's salary and doesn't have any business or business or business or anything like that. But is it relevant today to a poor, bitter society that has lost social optimism, today, for example, to introduce in this room the idea of raising wages, both for the people’s deputies and for their helpers? The question is sharp, but we must not hide from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u121	Thank you, dear colleague, on the question of the pay of the national deputies, this is my point of view, and I think it will transform into our electorate, today is a very difficult situation for our electorate, and yesterday we were looking at a situation of pay and so on. I think that Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, I'm not one of you, and it's not up to you to make a decision in this room about wage raises. And as for, although, of course, the right to introduce such an idea into the hall is possible and today it floated. And as for the number of national MPs, we're not bringing anything new here today, we know that we're on the ground of establishing numbers, because we're increasing the need and you need it, and I need it. I'm actually an honorary colleague, although this may be my bill and Catherine Semenovna Samojlik refers to me, I was a member of the district council in the previous call, so I think it's in order for us to work very well both at the higher legislative body and at the local regional level that we should also think there to be some legal status of those people who are helping us, our comrades and assistants of the people's deputies, and the district council's deputies at that level at least. So today we're just legally attaching and making proposals for four national deputies who will be attached here to the Supreme Council's apparatus so that there's really no problem with their employment and subsequent, so that there's no problem between the two laws "For State Service" and "Local Self-Government," they're unfortunately there today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u122	Thank you, Anatoly Volodymyrovich. National Deputy of Ukraine Dokin Mikhailo Markovich. Is there a national MP, Dokin? None. Is the National Deputy of Ukraine Sharov Igor Fedorovich present? None. Ukrainian National Deputy Petrov Oleg Volodymyrovich, no. Is it? Oleg Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. I'm not going to repeat myself much, and believe me, as Leonid Illich said here, it's all written, and I'm not going to complement my colleagues because we've been looking at this very carefully at the Committee on Rules of Procedure, and I thank all the members of the Committee very much for coming to our draft laws with such respect. That's probably why we're looking at this law in the first place, because it's also very challenging to people, you see, we've already gone to the level of wages and so on, so I'd like to deny that these people today are being asked about the salaries of the people's deputies, the helpers, it's not about the proposals we're making today to change the law. And that's what I'd like to emphasize. I would like to emphasize to my colleagues the only thesis that has moved me today as a national MP to make changes to this law, and I support my colleague from the Hersonian region, he has six districts, I have seven, he has seven districts. I want to tell you how you can work for the National MP today if you take the Polisse zone of the Chernigian region, which is borderline and where there are different residents in general, in different areas. If you take the New York North basically Russian way of life and language, and so on, take Coryukovsky, it's people who talk in a different language, and that's what you have to take into account. So what I want to stress is what really made us work specifically for people. So my strong belief is that today we need to increase the assistant consultants. The groundwork laid down in the draft law, the changes to the law, today is based on the very foundation of our sociologists. Most people, choosing a national deputy in a one - time district, see a person there first and foremost who will handle specific regional issues and provide material assistance. And that's 72.2 percent of the respondents today, these are our voters. And only 5 percent of the population agreed that the MP should generally engage in legislative activities. You and I are promoting that the MP today, and by the way, I'm not sharing today the idea that we've grown here, that there are majority MPs, and there are party MPs today. This is what we need together, and this is what the committee also stressed, to remove from our lives. There is a national MP is a law on the status of a national MP. So I proposed my changes to the ruling, and they're not fundamentally different for everyone who offered my colleagues. But there's a significant difference in numbers. The number of assistant deputies is suggested to be limited to 35, four on a permanent basis. Amendments to the status law, in 34 articles we have also introduced, and the acquisition of all assistant advisors to the status of a civil servant we consider to be a way of attaching them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this removes virtually all issues related to the locals. local authorities. The status of the National Deputy of Ukraine should be one. The adoption of this law does not require any additional budget expenditure, which I have highlighted in my statement to the previous one and I stress now. So I ask you to support this bill and accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u124	Thank you. Please. Introduce yourself, please. People's MP Drogunzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u125	I have a question for you, Reverend Oleg Volodymyrovich. Well, you're going to have 35 assistant consultants, and will the situation in the district change for the better? Although I do not see the immediate connection between these two phenomena. But there will be such a legend that Montenegrin workers live best in Ukraine. So why do you have the lowest birth rate? Because the main reason for this is economic. Will your helpers help us to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u126	Well, I'd like to answer to an honorary colleague in such a way that, unfortunately, it's not a press conference of the National Deputy in 211 district. I conduct them every month and on the live air of Montenegro’s district television. I will be happy to answer then after the situation has improved, as it has changed every year, clearly and clearly. Well, about birth, unfortunately, it is. The Montenegrins today are practically leading, as they say, from behind, the truth is, all regions of birth, by demographics. And that's the problem, by the way, and I passed a law on the priority development of the border in that call. I would also like to take this opportunity to support this law on priority development. Well, last but not least, I'm helping the county. I'm 16 years old, I'm 16 years old, I'm a child, I'm a son, and my daughter's 1 and a half months old.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u127	People's Deputy Cranwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u128	Your Honor, I have such a technical question. This is about four helpers who will be attached to the Supreme Council’s apparatus. But the language goes here: with the status of a civil servant. For example, I've got a situation right now: I've got two in the district of government officials, two in Kiev. And I'm paying another person a salary from what's left of being a civil servant. For example, I had to secure it in the Kiev City Council. Is it also possible to regulate this issue so that, say, 4, but without the definition that a government official or a nonstate official?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u129	So that's exactly what we're counting on, is that today we don't have to divide either by public policy or by a second contract or he's a civil servant. We made it clear that there are 4 assistants with the status of civil servant, and 31 assistants are on public policy. That's what we're limiting. You can, it's your opinion, as they say, you can limit others. We've narrowed it down and calculated it. But they are all attached through the Supreme Council. I am definitely against restricting the number of consulting assistants on both public principles and others. There are many reasons for today’s day and they are working just to make this choice of law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u130	Thank you, Oleg Volodymyrovich. All right, time's up. National Deputy of Ukraine Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! We're looking at a very interesting issue today, and I think it's a very important question. And I want to say right away why I wrote my bill and what it's different from everyone else. I drew attention to the basic motive that all draft laws had for communicating with the electorate. In principle, this is the right thing to do, and from this point of view, of course, you can send one of your representatives to every area, to every city, a village, in general, you can fantasize forever. But the Ukrainian People's Deputy organizes its own work and the work of its assistants and, among other things, it is still engaged in legislative work and is working on committees. And our assistants help us not only to answer the letters of our constituents but also to prepare laws. We need consultants, we need specialists, economists, lawyers, because I don't think there's any MP in this room who would say that he's a competent person entirely on all the issues that we're dealing with here. I therefore follow this principle, which can be arranged, however, by my work, but still limited to our assistants who work on a social basis, there is no point. A lot of specialists, economists, lawyers, taxpayers are willing to help us, they don't need money, because they're interested in us having good, reasonable, logical laws in Ukraine. And I, for example, find this help when specialists come to me, offering their advice without requiring any material reward. Therefore, I believe that the number of people's deputies working on a social basis should not be limited. Next. The number of assistants who work on contractual grounds is either based on work or co-operation, or this is the main place of work. There is, of course, a limitation, at least on the basis that the wage fund of our assistants is clearly defined, there are rules of law that we adopt with you on the remuneration of people, is the concept of “minimum subsistence minimum”, and we know that wages should not be below that indicator. That is why I believe that the 15 assistants who can work under the employment agreement are quite sufficient. Given that the law states that four assistants may be civil servants, that is, they must have a certain amount of wages and, as practice has shown, not less than 300 bracelets, but much more. Once again from the fund, we must limit the number of assistants working under the employment agreement. Therefore, the principle of my law is that the number of assistants is not limited to those working under public conditions and the number of assistants working under the employment agreement of 15 and no longer, of whom those who work and live in Kiev are formed, and of course these will be the four people who are to receive the status of the service. We don't have another option today. Thank you. I hope you'll support my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u132	Thank you. No questions? The report invites the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u133	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! In accordance with the requirements of the Rules at the Committee for the Participation of the Authors, all the bills introduced by the People's Deputies on changes in the legal regulation of the work of the Assistant Consultants of the People's Deputies have been considered. These are 8 bills that have been submitted today, almost all of them. The National MP of Ukraine, Alexandrovska, introduced her bill on number 1083-8 only after the committee's meeting, but with regard to the main positions of the committee, I can make a statement taking into account the discussion at the committee meeting. That actually touched the features of this bill. What general reasoning is there about the bills that are being discussed today? First of all, the amendments to article 34 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, proposed by the authors of the bill, are needed primarily from the point of view of the establishment of a legal mechanism for assigning the rank of civil servant to the two assistant consultants of the National Deputies, on which, according to the current law of Ukraine, the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy extends. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, with the application of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, the heads of the local self-government authorities have no right to assign employees the status of civil servant and this rule does not work. This has been the result of the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on 22 March 2001 and it has been returned with proposals by the President to the Supreme Council again. On July 12, 2001, the Supreme Council overcame the President’s veto and took effect on September 7, 2001. The Ukrainian Act on Service in Local Self-Government was also returned by the President to the Supreme Council of Ukraine during this period, and on June 7, 2001, it was finally adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the meeting of the committee, all the bills listed were carefully examined and it was unanimous, I stress, a unanimous decision: to submit a proposal for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of two bills: Number 1083, the authors of which are the Turkish National Deputies, Pavlovsky, Sas, and number 1083-7, submitted by the People's Deputy Petrov. These two bills, we think the committee thinks, are a complex solution to the unresolved issues. Bills sponsored by the National Deputys Samojlik, Orzhachowski, Dobkin, Sharov, supported by the Committee and partly by Suškević and Noshenko, supported by the Committee, since each of them deals with individual issues of attachment of assistant consultants or granting them the status of civil servant. And Bill 1083, which is proposed by the committee as a basis, deals with all the basic aspects of the matter. First of all, the proposed changes in assigning the rank of civil servant to the assistants of the National MP are decided as follows. Four assistant consultants who need to be assigned the rank of civil servants get attached to the Supreme Council's Apparatus. Because in accordance with article 26 of the State Service Act, the rankings corresponding to the posts of the seventh category are assigned to the head of the public authority in whose system the civil servant works. And then the people's deputy can attach, I emphasize, they can attach such assistants to human and financial security, to the apparatus of local self-government, and they can retain the status of a civil servant under this law. I'm sorry, but they didn't set the time right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u134	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u135	Similarly, the right to be attached to the staff and financial services of local government agencies to preserve the status of a civil servant is established for assistant consultants who already have the rank of civil servant. Under Bill 1083 proposed by the authors, the National MP also has the right to attach to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the permanent work and assistant consultants who do not have the Act on State Service. With regard to the legislative settlement of the right to reside as assistants to national MPs in the state of public organizations, as proposed in the bill by Ukrainian national deputies Suškević and Noshchenko, the committee notes the following. The Constitution of Ukraine in article 36 stipulates that Ukrainian citizens have the right to freedom of association in political parties and social organizations to exercise and protect their rights and freedoms and to enjoy political, economic, social, cultural and other interests. The Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens in five articles: 1, 3, 6, 9, and 13 developed these provisions of the Constitution and provided for the voluntary unification of citizens for the interests of civil society organizations acting on the basis of their statutes. Article 8 of this Law emphasizes that the involvement of public authorities in the activities of citizens’ associations is not permitted except in cases provided for by law. Thus, honourable colleagues, the establishment by law of the right to reside as assistant consultants in the State of Public Organizations, is not caused by the constitutional interference of the law in the activities of public organizations. Thus, the committee was proposed, by the authors, to reject this rule that the assistants of the National MPs were in the state of public organizations. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Jętěk, proposes a legal norm under which assistant consultants work in Kiev under a contract of time and for which this work is essential, are attached for human and financial services to the Supreme Council's apparatus. In other cases, that is to say, work for compatibility is located in the state of state enterprises, institutions, organizations, or the executive branch of the local government. The author thus proposes that all assistants working on a permanent basis be attached to the Supreme Council’s apparatus. The committee did not support such a legal decision. We've come from the possibility that today's Supreme Council will provide jobs, and you know that, even in the case of organizing the work of our committees today, providing the necessary employment facilities, organizing the work of the people's deputies in this amount, we're going to provide with you today, employees, assistants of the people's deputies on a permanent basis who would work in Parliament, we don't have that capacity. We have also come from the fact that these changes, by law establishing for the national MPs the ability to employ assistant consultants working in Kiev, only in the Parliamentary apparatus limits the right of national deputies elected from Kiev in major districts to employ their employees in local self-government bodies. The National MP of Alexandrovska proposes to regulate, inter alia, the admission to work of 15 assistant consultants under a fixed-term contract of employment on a permanent basis or on a co-existence basis. We believe that this approach needs to be concluded first of all by the Committee on Budget Affairs. As for the substantial increase in the number of consultants, or not at all setting the limits of the number of assistant consultants, it would require additional costs to maintain the Supreme Council apparatus. In general, this is about the formation of 670-750 assistant consultants only for permanent work or for compatibility, which is more than 4.5 times the total number of employees today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the light of the bill’s proposal to remove the restrictions on the number of assistant consultants, it seems impossible to calculate the optimum number of appliances to serve them. That's why the committee came out of it by making decisions on all the bills you had proposed. And to conclude, I believe that honourable colleagues, who deserve particular attention, should conclude on these bills by the chief scientific and expert management of the committee, I emphasize, almost 10 days after the committee's discussion of the matter. Recognizing in general the fact that the problem exists and needs to be solved, the principal scientific management is practically not offering anything to solve it. With regard to the number of assistant consultants that a national deputy may have, the Authority considers that the justification, I quote, for increasing this number of needs to ensure the interaction of the national deputy with the electorate in the regions is not convincing, since the main place of work of the national deputy is the Supreme Council. And for MPs elected in one-maned districts, so is his constituency. But not every one of the 27 regions of Ukraine. That's it. In this regard, I would like to remind experts that, in part one of article 1 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the term "national MP," states that the Ukrainian national deputy is the elected representative of the Ukrainian people in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is authorized by him to exercise the powers provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine during the term of the parliamentary mandate." So please support the committee's decision on the basis of Bills 1083 and 1083-7. And if, fellow believers, your good will be done and there will be no comments tomorrow, we would ask and propose by unifying these two bills, immediately tomorrow we will accept them as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u136	Thank you. People's Deputies, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u137	Dear Valentin Grigorovich. Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I have two questions. First. How many consulting assistants, personally managed by the national MP, are optimal, how many consulting assistants directly managed by the Ukrainian People's Deputies are optimal? Because there may be 100, but not everyone can meet, not everyone can be given a task. And the second question. Your opinion is that the President of Ukraine is vetoing or proposing laws that are purely internal. You called one of them who touched assistant consultants and so on, the President vetoes. It seems to me that these issues of the internal life of Parliament, as President, should not interest him at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u138	Dear Sergey Ivanovich! The first question about how much is optimal, the first thing I want to tell you is that the National MP has to manage all the assistant consultants he takes to work. And for that, he uses the full cost of paying, that is, the fund to pay for assistants and consultants. And to find time to contact, and above all to cure the assistant consultants to carry out their duties, especially the direct organization of the work with the electorate, is not only the right but the holy duty of the public defender. Therefore, it is very difficult to determine the optimum number today. We followed the path that was proposed, more faithfully, we supported the committee, the proposal that was made by the people’s deputies, both Chickanovich and Petrov. So by uniting and offering Peter a draft in exchange for what had been presented earlier, we came out of the quantity that we are today. So it's proposed to be 31 assistant advisors to the People's Deputy. As for your second question, putting the President's veto on laws that the country's higher legislative body adopts, that's its constitutional right. But logic, Sergey Ivanovich, is really what you're talking about. If laws apply to Parliament’s internal life, regulate its activities in some way, and primarily help to strengthen the association of national deputies throughout the Supreme Council with the elections, then perhaps the right to decide for the Supreme Council itself. And I think that if one of these laws is still vetoed, maybe this Supreme Council, I mean this convening, will be able to overcome the President's veto by voting 300 votes or more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. Decision-making in accordance with the Rules will take place on Thursday. You are being reviewed by the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of the Laundering of Proceeds by Crime. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! You have been proposed a draft law on prevention and resistance to legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, so to speak, for Ukraine. Today, Ukraine is accepted because of the prism of the negative things that are now in the West that bring us bad image. And the absence of this law goes on to say that there is no investment in the state. Our law offers. I represent him today, and I want to say that his authors are also national deputies: the King, Vasiliev, the Raven, the People's MPs of the past gathering of Kocherg, the National Deputies of the past calling of Alchin, Philipchuk and Sergienko, and the Orphan. I'm introducing this bill, although the copyright team is listed there. We're proposing the creation of a system of measures aimed at preventing and countering the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the State of Ukraine. Our project is aimed at establishing State control over the financial activities of economic operators and individuals in order to establish a legal basis for countering the legalization of these incomes. The legalization of funds obtained by criminal means through unfettered uncontrollable circulation will support criminal groups and further develop entrepreneurial structures to support them. The bill envisages the creation in Ukraine of a special government executive body to monitor financial transactions at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which are subject to the supervision of financial operations with a view to preventing and countering the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means. In many lands it exists as such. It's called "financial intelligence." Such intelligence has been created in 43 countries around the world. They are involved in collecting, analysing, and reviewing information, and they conclude that questionable operations are suspicious. This enables the identification of a source of income to reveal the scope of criminal activity. The sources of shadow capital include drug trafficking, illicit arms trafficking, prostitution, smuggling, fraud with financial resources, and so forth. We're predicting the creation of an independent body because you and I are convinced of the results of the budget. implementation of the 2001 government budget, which is a problem in the Ministry of Finance, that more than 2 billion dollars have been used for non-dedicated purposes. You and I know what's going on today with the value added tax and what's going on here, what's the mass cost going on. It is in order to make such a situation impossible in Ukraine and our law is directed. We propose to create a National Agency for Special Security, a special executive body to monitor financial transactions, and to create it at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on which to place the function of monitoring significant or questionable financial transactions with a view to preventing and countering the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. In doing so, we suggest that we take into account the experience that we have today with you six years from the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly the experience of appointment to managerial positions. You know, if you don't know, I won't reveal the secret that there's a decree in the President's Office, a decree with an appropriate charter, which even judges, prosecutors agree with the proper administration, security officers, defence officers agree with the proper administration. Is the Constitution in line with this decree, which is certainly closed to the general population? Of course he's not answering. In order for this not to happen, we want to and we want to pursue the goal of making this body, which, unfortunately, is now created only by the President's decree, created after the Supreme Council has already considered this bill. We suggest that there be, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, To that end, we offer a system of restraints and contrasts. In order for this system to work, we propose that the Director of the National Agency for the appointment of the Prime Minister, who has agreed with the Supreme Council Committee on the fight against organized crime and corruption, appoint the President of Ukraine to serve as President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's both the appointment and the dismissal of the position that exists now in the Constitution of Ukraine, where, let's say, the Attorney General is appointed by the Supreme Council, and they can be released at any time, at any time. And so it doesn't give him a guarantee of independence depending solely on the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, but it makes him dependent on one branch of power. In order for this tool not to be used as a means of pressure on political opponents, we also propose to make this official responsible, we foresee the right to speak to the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the mistrust and resignation of the Director of the National Agency. We also propose that the first deputy, deputy and head of the National Agency and inter-regional bureaux be appointed and that the director be dismissed by the consent of the parliamentary committee of the respective committee and thus that effective civilian control be established. We don't determine the number of these workers in order not to do a lot of them, we're saying that this can be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And that's it. Financial transactions are controlled by organizations that carry out financial transactions. These are commercial banks and financial institutions, insurance companies, commodity funds and other markets, gambling facilities, investment funds, and the State's direct control over financial transactions is to be carried out by the National Financial Security Agency, which will have inter-regional offices. Why are we talking about interregional offices? We speak precisely to avoid the effects of the regions. And in order for this organ to not have it as a law enforcement agency, it's in the executive system, we write for it clearly what operations are subject to control. You know now the disgraceful deal between the National Bank and the Tax Administration. It contradicts virtually the current legislation of Ukraine, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. To that end, we have to clearly define the definitions in the law. I am very grateful to the employees of the Ukrainian Association, the Association of Ukrainian Banks, who helped us create this law under the leadership of the President of the Suganiaco Association. We predicted that a financial operation would be subject to mandatory control if the cash-free accounts exceeded the equivalent of 50,000 euros or a cash agreement above the equivalent of 10,000 euros at the official rate of the foreign currency bill set up by the National Bank of Ukraine on the day of the operation. This is going to be a major operation, and also if the amount of the cost of such an operation exceeds the amount equivalent to 10,000 euros at the official exchange rate set by the National Bank on the day of the operation. And then we're predicting mechanisms to stop these operations, which have a legalization sign, and we're giving the right only to the head of the National Financial Security Agency or his deputy, so that there's no seduction to keep everything within the limits of the law. In our view, our law differs significantly from the law that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposes precisely that in the Cabinet of Ministers project of Ukraine, which stands for 1156-1, the criteria for referring the operation to significant or questionable ones are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; that in this law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Order and the conditions for providing information on the operation of the coming are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And everything else, i.e. everything is not done transparently or through legislation. So I'd like to take this opportunity to say that yesterday our project was being reviewed by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, and it supported our project. Unfortunately, we weren't invited to another committee, where, as we know, our project wasn't discussed at all. And all of a sudden, a project on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Banking, signed by Mr. Burjak, where they did not consider it yesterday, rejected it, today appears to support the government bill, not considering the one that was introduced first. I don't know how it's done, but I want the public of Ukraine to know that things like this happen under a dress, these arrangements, and for them to be gone, I'm talking about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u141	Thank you. A question for the people's MP Borschewski, please. Dear colleagues, we're going to have to take a minute and 15 minutes to complete our consideration of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u142	Borschevsky, Communist Party of Ukraine. Tell us, please, that today we have more and more corruption, crime is becoming more and more organized, and we continue to create new and new bodies to combat it. So, as the author of this law, you can say that this is a poor setup, that it wasn't, and as soon as it becomes, with corruption, at least the derivative will become negative. I mean, it's going to get smaller. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u143	Thank you very much, colleague Boschevski, for your questions and for your concern. I want to say that from the number of organs, of course, there is no direct dependence on the fight against corruption. We need to apply the laws that we have. And there's no practice today, that's the first. But with regard to a particular case, this body was created. At first he was created by the President's decree under the Tax Administration, but was illegally created. And now it was created illegally under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance again by decree, and there's a small state there today. True, there are no results. So I can tell you that how can an authority at the Ministry of Finance control the flows that the Ministry of Finance in general or the government directs? There's no way. How can he control in this system those flows that come from the Tax Administration or those funds at the law enforcement agencies that I think we're going to talk about in this room. To fund law enforcement agencies today, funds are being set up in the state and meetings are beginning to be some very large in the general pursuits of how much money you have provided there, that is, racketeering. Here's the question. In order for this to not happen, we're proposing, we've exhausted these ideas, we've got no other way out, it's first, and secondly, for the world to see us, like Guinea-Bissau -- I don't want to offend Guinea, because we're in a worse place -- but as a civilized state. We need to adopt a law where we can predict all the opposites, and where we can then answer honestly and openly with you. I'll say, yes, the situation will change if we make it all go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u144	The People’s Deputy of John.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u145	Ivanov, 3 constituency, Janko. Yuri Anatolyevich, I want to repeat to some extent the question of Borschevsky's colleague, but only to give me a very brief answer, I don't need any philosophy: that's good, that's bad. Short. Today, certain law enforcement structures are already performing these functions. The question is, will these functions be selected by those who are currently in office if this law is passed, and will it not lead to a phased, as always, duplication and ultimately lack both of them and of those final results? Would the functions of other law enforcement agencies be duplicated?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u146	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich, for asking. I would like to make it clear that this is not about the fact that the responsibilities of some law enforcement agency are being taken away from someone, no. These responsibilities were not discharged from financial monitoring by any body. They are either executed by the Security Service or by the Tax Office or by the police. So there's no mention of this, first of all, subtraction. And secondly, it's about fulfilling the international obligations of our country, Ukraine, and in particular the financial development teams to combat money-laundering, the so-called "FAT" and other international organizations that are demanding the follow-up of these. And then, when they're made, they're working on some materials, they're handing them over to the law enforcement authorities. Moreover, law enforcement officials may be assigned there to work there, and as is the case today, they are assigned to many bodies. So there's competition, there's not going to be any coverage, there's not going to be any criminal cases, there's nothing. But in order for it not to become the body of such a fiscal plan again to be serious, we predict those contradictions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u147	Thank you. Question time's up. The Minister of Finance of Jusko has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u148	Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u149	Igor Olegovich, if possible, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u150	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Given the remaining 12 minutes, I'll do my best. The point is that the two bills are presented, which are actually on the same subject, they have conceptually different approaches. That bill, which was submitted or reported just in this sessional room, is actually meant to create another force structure. It's very easy to follow up on a bill that gives this particular organization the task of blocking accounts and doing other things that have signs of operational activity and so on. That is, which is within the sphere of influence of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office and so forth. The world’s experience has also been created in world trends by organizations that have to analyse financial flows in order to cover up dirty money in order to conceal the financing of terrorism. They have the most analytical function and nowhere in the world do they perform the functions of force structures. This is the principle, I would say, the conceptual difference between these two bills. The point is that we are proposing with regard to the world's experience not to create a force structure, namely, an analytical centre of its nature, which would analyse financial flows and make recommendations to those structures for further action in the form of information and recommendations that bear the signs of verification or that correspond to such or other actions of legislation in the fight and legalization of dirty money. First of all, I want to say that this approach, as proposed by the first bill, is actually changing the concept that Ukraine has been working on since 1996. I want to remind you that in 1996 it was one of the first steps, that Ukraine first joined the Vienna Convention, in 1997, the Strasbourg Convention, the fight against criminal money, dirty money, and so on. All of these documents, which are now valid in Ukraine, are in the line or, as it were, in the concept of that bill, which the government has submitted before the Supreme Council. In principle, I can say the following among others. For example, the bill provides for the removal of the responsibility of the subjects. This bill establishes a double system for monitoring financial flows. The first level is primary monitoring, these are the authorities that are doing these functions today. I mean, it doesn't need any extra expenses from the state. And the second level or the higher level is actually the level of government monitoring. So this is the primary information collection that comes from a different level and analysis. Well, let's give you some examples. Yeah, there's more to the fear, let's say, that's what. I'd like us to have common understanding, because this is an analytical center. I mean, any transaction that can be classified as questionable or significant or questionable and significant. That doesn't mean that every transaction actually has to have certain actions, I mean an operational plan. It's not that. It can't actually be happening. This is a body that accumulates information, because many actions that, for the first time even from the tenth time, do not always qualify as acts or frauds, or those aimed at legalizing dirty money. So the main task of this body is to detect the system and transmit this information, which is of a systemic nature, to test the very strong structures. I wasn't aiming for, let's say, whether to criticize a concept or something, I could say the following. First. The bill submitted by National Deputy Karmazin was supported by 5 to 4 at an appropriate meeting of the Committee to Combat Organized Crime, the Committee of Finance and Banking. 27 national deputies from 34 committee members supported a government project at the level of concept. The deal was as follows. Adopted as a basis, i.e. in the first reading, that bill that prepared the government with the involvement of international experts -- and this is what happened in the spring of this year -- taking into account the world experience and during the second reading process, to take into account the issues that were most challenging by the national MPs, that is. First. This is about the exact definition of the list of questionable and questionable. Signs of questionable and significant operations, that is to say, should be the norm of law, not determined by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. I think this can be done absolutely in preparation for the second reading. And the second. This definition is more clearly defined in the Cabinet of Ministers' Bill on regulating this activity and leaving the rest in law. I think it can be done completely, too, in the fourth article of the bill. I am absolutely convinced that such questions are regulatory, that they are right. And this can be done completely in preparation for the second reading. Thank you for your attention. If there's a question, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u151	Thank you. If you have any questions, please sign up. Let's take a look at the board. National Deputy Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine None. National MP Bandurka, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u152	Mr. Secretary, and Mr. Carmazin, and you use the word "suspicious operations." Who Will Judge? Will there be any additional instructions from the Ministry of Finance or the National Bank, which will eventually refer to questionable transactions, what will be their signs? In the law itself, it is not written down. How do you see this in this plane: the definition of an operation as questionable?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u153	Thank you for asking. I actually answered him during the interview, but I'll say it again. From a formal point of view, such a definition exists at an international level, the so-called 40 recommendations of the International Organization for the Suppression of Terrorism. Well, fact is, we've all heard of it. And these 40 recommendations are an international experience that's written, I'm sorry, blood, and clearly what's going on. During my report, I said that this was the question that arose most frequently during the discussions on both committees. And I said that there was an agreement in preparation for the second reading of this to write bills so that it wouldn't stay out of the way. In my opinion, that is absolutely right and absolutely possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u154	National Deputy Drogunzov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u155	Drogantz faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear reporter, you said that conceptually your project, the Cabinet of Ministers project, and the project that Deputy Carmazin made of himself and groups of other deputies, were conceptually completely different. So how can such a colossal difference between them, conceptually speaking, take into account the proposals of the Karmazin bill as a basis for your bill? I'm going to be very grateful because I'm preparing for the next question, so I can't really figure out how to interpret this big-scale thing. For one large size it's $10 and for the other small size it's $10 million. So how do you figure it out? To be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u156	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, the difference between these two bills. It's not possible to combine two concepts. So we have to define ourselves with the concept -- that's the whole point of the first reading procedure. According to the concept of the distinguished People’s Deputy, Carmazin proposes to make a strong structure and another. According to the concept of government, the Ministry of Finance, your humble servant, we offer not to make a force structure, but as in the whole world, to make an analytical center, not a military one. These two concepts can't be combined, we have to figure out. The rest is more or less a technical question. As for the definition of "big." In fact, I can remind you that they are already defined in current legislation. Large, much more precisely, I'm sorry, it's a term that's considered to be significant operations in cash -- 10,000 euros and more, cash-free -- 50,000 euros and more. These standards can be clarified when preparing the bill for second reading, so there can be no novels. I think all the questions, don't you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u157	People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u158	Dear Igor Olegovich, you must know such an anecdote when the plumber came to change the crane that flows, and he tells the master that, you know, the crane here can't do anything, you need to change the system. I am sure that today those authorities that control this matter can present tens of thousands of examples of money laundering and bribery. And what kind of money doesn't go through the bank, so we don't control it if they don't go through the bank. Because all over the world, dirty money is the kind that comes from drug trafficking and other sex businesses. And we have almost all the dirty money in Ukraine. We'll create one system, two.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u159	Please formulate a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u160	Tell me, will your friend change this situation or will he change it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u161	I can say that, in my opinion, the situation has to do with the introduction of this, let's say that if this bill is supported, the system should be created over the course of the year, in my opinion, the situation should be changed. It's not exactly that they're supposed to work better under certain circumstances, it's that, I don't know, strong structures like these, it's that we're going to have objective information about what's going on in the state's finances. And not just finance. I'm absolutely sure that the issue of corruption and the issue of money laundering is still a little bit different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u162	Thank you. Time's up, thank you. The committee for the fight against organized crime and corruption Strtovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich has the floor for the report. If possible, in a nutshell and in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u163	Yeah, I'll try. Dear Head, honourable Presidency, distinguished national deputies! The bill that you're proposing is, in fact, the first draft of a law to be passed on to the world of today's Supreme Council. He came to us on June 14, and we are preparing him for the first reading. The committee at its meeting yesterday considered both bills -- and the bill introduced by Yuri Karmazin -- and the bill introduced by the President's legislative initiative, which was declared urgent by the Cabinet of Ministers. These bills deserve attention and are timely, as the problem of combating the laundering of proceeds obtained by crime is quite relevant for Ukraine, given the high degree of tinnitus of the economy, as well as in the light of the fight against organized crime and terrorism. The proposed projects are aimed at establishing State control over the financial activities of operators and individuals in order to establish a legal basis for countering the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. They define the scope of their application, interpreting the concepts and terms used in the text, defining financial controls, signs of questionable financial transactions, and order of verification of such transactions. The draft law introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin envisions the creation of a special unit, namely the National Financial Security Agency, which is tasked with monitoring financial transactions. With this provision of a bill on the appointment of the director of the agency for office and discharge, annual reports in the Supreme Council, his mistrust has resulted in his resignation, as well as the order of appointment and discharge of other directors of this office, is not in line with the current functioning of the Ukrainian Constitution. The provisions of the bill on the verification of suspicious financial transactions with a view to detecting signs of crime resulting from the commission of proceeds that may become legalized, and the actions that testify to legalization, the right to terminate an operation that has signs of legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means, provide grounds for placing the National Financial Security Agency in law enforcement. The establishment of the National Financial Security Agency and its inter-regional bureau requires additional budget expenditure and there is no financial basis for the bill. If you don't take a lot of time, because there were two reporters here, I want to say four major differences that distinguish these bills. The first thing I said was: create a special body of the National Agency. And the second is about his operation within the Ministry of Finance. Mark number two. There was a question for the minister: What sign is there that is questionable or that requires control? And he called the amounts that are considered practical: about 50,000 euros on a cash-free basis or 10,000 euros in cash. But that's the sum that's in the project that Deputy Carmazin is proposing. And it's not in the Cabinet project. Moreover, article 4 of the project, proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, contains a standard that the criteria for the relationship of financial transactions to questionable ones are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. We stand for it, and legal technology requires that the law, so that it does not create different interpretations, be as direct as possible so that everything mentioned in the law is done in practice. This enables individuals who have suffered as a result of the wrong actions of the same agency, the financial monitoring department to appeal to the court, and by indicating that it is not legally provided for by the act to which it was subjected, in fact, to be protected. At the committee's meeting, there was a rumor that the Cabinet of Ministers also issued legal regulations, and they were also the norm for legal action. The Karmazin Act provides a criterion for placing financial transactions on questionable people. The law of the Cabinet of Ministers does not define such criteria. That's the second difference. The third difference is that there is virtually control, including public control, of the establishment of the National Financial Security Agency. The bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers does not provide for such control. As a result of a broad discussion involving representatives of the Ministry of Finance, such as the Minister of Finance, the Government of the Association of Ukrainian Banks, the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as the comments made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the committee was defined by voting as the basis for a more conceptually structuredly correct bill proposed by the People's Chamber of Carmazin. And the People's Deputy will be offered a ruling tomorrow. For which we ask the Supreme Council to entrust this bill to the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, together with the Committee on Activities, Finance and Banking, to elaborate this bill, to write it carefully as proposed in the Karmazin bill, and to submit it to a second reading. And the last trailer. Last night there was information that the Committee on Finance and Banking did not accept the concept of the law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers and rejected it as such. Surprisingly, today's decree has been passed, stating that it has been voted upon to adopt in the first reading a bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, this is a job for the Committee on Corruption. This is understandable why such reversibility is taking place. But the language does not. Tomorrow, during the vote, I would very much ask the people's deputies to make a decision, to vote in favour of the ruling made by our committee, or to vote in favour of the decision made by the Committee on Finance and Banking, but we have to move. Ukraine is now on the list of questionable financial transactions in our banks. The Association of Ukrainian Banks is today shouting, alarming that Germany is closing the correspondence accounts of Ukrainian banks because we are not fighting against the laundering of dirty, dishonest money. Therefore, we are obliged to go on the road, and then, in preparation for the second reading, we will take all the comments into account, and we will determine what this law should be by means of an article vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u164	Thank you. People’s deputies insist on questions. Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National MP Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleague! That's the question. Any law must be considered in terms of its impact on material production, all the more so. In fact, the Karmazin bill on the establishment of an additional force structure that will arrive at the enterprise tomorrow and begin to develop new forms of impact on the enterprise. Today, the tax police have assumed the functions of the tax, the same, and are already challenging the main accountants, the business leaders are planting them and, through a three-hour, four-hour interrogation, the quarterly profit statements are being brought into line. This is a crime just before material production. Today you are asking what is not enough for you, Carmazin, in particular in the bill, which is not enough to do so, there is yet one force structure to be created. The whole question is that, as legislators, we finally want to destroy the scope of production, or do we not understand what the virtues of this law will be?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! I reiterate that by voting yesterday on the committee in determining which law to take as a basis, the votes were distributed: 5:4. Finally, what kind of law will be determined by the session hall. My personal opinion, not the committee, my personal opinion that this should be the Department of Financial Control within the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, as it is in practice in many countries. That is why it is suggested in the decision that we have proposed that if you look at the second paragraph, take the basis of the project and instruct the committee to take into account the proposals for a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers as well as the legislators. By the way, you belong to them. Please submit all the suggestions from tomorrow after the vote to the committee so that we can draw up the table, vote and write the law as a doll. My personal position is the Law of Parkinson -- as soon as we create a new organ, there is an immediate rise in the mass of officials who will use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u167	National Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u168	Dear reporter, I'd like you to make a point as long as you're familiar with the law that our project does not foresee the creation of any law enforcement agency. Our project foresees that those departments that are now set up outside the rule of law by the President's decrees comply with the requirements of the law. And I'm asking if I can refute this statement, because from the mouth of the Minister of Finance, it was said that this is being created in the first place, and now, I've come to realize that Deputy Kravchenko didn't understand or read that it's not an additional structure, and now there's a department that's being funded right now. I repeat, now, there is a department today. In addition to my projects, we have to read the President's decrees, which have been the first year of the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u169	Please make a point.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u170	I answer, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The situation with the creation of a special body is understood because it is expressed by the apiori, a certain lack of confidence in the structure that we will be creating legislatively. It exists. The Cabinet of Ministers of January 10 created an appropriate department, appointed its director, and approved the relevant position on the structure. Our task, as legislators, is to introduce the activity of this structure into the legislative field. If you have listened carefully, I have stressed the need to carefully write out the functions, carefully write out the criteria, and refer the operations to the financial doubters so that commercial subjects may have the right to defend themselves. [[banks, financial structures]] That's when we give this law to act -- whether it's a financial department, or whether it's a specially separated structure -- it's not going to matter, because in accordance with the Constitution, article 19 states that all officials, public authorities and local governments act only in a manner provided for by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. If we define such ways by law, there will be a question of compliance with this law by the state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u171	National MP Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u172	Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, here I think you won't deny that during election campaigns, and especially before the elections, we are seeing a process of laundering and accumulation of money that is not legitimately involved in the election campaign. If we vote in favour of this law, it will be adopted and put into effect, as you think, can it prevent this procedure from happening during the preparation and holding of the next presidential election?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u173	Thank you. Of course, it will prevent the normal organization of the Department's work on financial monitoring, and it will be a structure that will track the dirty money that will be stored in the accounts. But as an experienced parliamentarian, three times a general, the third time in parliament, you know that usually money comes from a portfolio in a portfolio that doesn't actually come to a bank. So I can sceptically answer your question whether the adoption of the law will affect the control of these questionables. And the second is the question of the legal culture of the voters of the electoral process, of the legal culture in general, and of the rule of law in the state. I think in time this question will be gone. We need to structure society, and these functions are going to be transferred to the constituencies of the electoral process to control each other, and the role of the state is going to be minimal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u174	National Deputy King, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u175	Thank you. Well, first of all, I wanted to ask the minister of finance, but I couldn't do it, so I'll do it now. Did he read the law passed by a group of national deputies? Because his answers indicate that he did not even see him near him. Why? I'm making a point. When asked from the hall whether there was a clear system of measures called illegals, he replied that this was to be thought. This is in a law that has been passed to the deputies, a clear and limited list of these transactions that are questionable. These are the operations that call anyone's questionable, anonymously sent money, that is, sent money to an address that doesn't exist, money sent to an offshore area in large sums and so on. So the MPs prevented it. That's the first one. The other one. It's not a law enforcement agency. And the third. It will distinguish between what is created and what is proposed. Because if it is created with the support of national MPs, it will be a subordinate, accountable body of the Supreme Council. Paragraph 5 states: The head of this report to the Supreme Council on the work being done, rather than creating an additional financial monitoring body that does not affect the situation, it can only tell you that there is dirty money in our country. So, honourable national MPs, before making a decision, I ask you to see both of these bills. Both are not perfect, but as a basis that the MPs have developed and based on it to create a normal bill. And those who report it will read it and then understand it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u176	Thank you. I'm just going to brief the MPs and ask them tomorrow to take two laws and read what they're different about. But there's a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on May 29th, quite recently adopted number 700, called "To define criteria and to take financial transactions to questionable or unusual." And in the law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, article 4 points out that these criteria are determined by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. We are firmly opposed to this being regulated by regulations. And all of these criteria were directly written in the law. And this is what was done in the bill that the Ukrainian National MP Karmazin proposed. That was the main point when we voted in favour of the basic law, the Karmazin law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u177	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u178	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, one of them signed up for the performance. Wait a minute! People's MP Kravchenko has a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u180	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to read to the honourable Lord the King and Carmazin the document that they refer to and to read it carefully. The draft law, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin, envisions the creation in Ukraine of a special executive body to oversee financial transactions. All of it. Hereafter, we understand what is behind this wording.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u181	Thank you. National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Ulysses of Timoshenko. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u182	Dear friends, I am very brief, but I want to draw attention to some of the problems. First of all, I loved the fact that the Minister of Finance, he liked the Karmazin law, and that's already symptomatic. First. Now, specifically by this law. Indeed, the new force structure cannot be created, the control body must be. The only thing the President should not take part in and be involved in the appointment of a leader is that he and the Accounting Chamber should be fully with the Supreme Council. The President will appoint, then what we have in the elections. That's the first one. Second, reverend. There's no specialty in both laws. Dirty money flows to the other side. Now that we've issued the President's decree on these forty recommendations to the FAT financial development group, we've again outran the world -- we've called all the money dirty. There is, Boris Ivanovich correctly indicated that money is only dirty for drug trafficking and sex trafficking, that is. That's interesting. From Ukraine, $40 billion has fled abroad, from Russia -- about $200 billion -- and I want to say that in February, there was a special round table out of dirty laundry. Scientists, bankers have been looking at, the whole magazine has been dedicated to this problem, and there's an article by American scientist Professor James Peters of the Department of Sociology called Dirty Money, the foundation of the U.S. Empire. [[New York, United States]] And out of one trillion dirty money in the world, 500 billion are working in the United States. And we signed this agreement and the President's decree, and we made this interesting curtain: the money that's running today is controlled, and the money that wants to come back, our money, we're putting the curtain back on so that they can work there. We need to take an example from Russia, as it creates the conditions that our dirty money, that they're running away, that they're going back and that's something we should encourage, or we've given up the world, and now we say let it work there, and we don't have it. So this second part, this chapter has to be depicted as in Russia, take their experience so that our money can go back to Ukraine, because no one will make any investments. And more than that, in many countries of the world, really, this figure is defined, the amount of which is followed by operations, it's called Carmazin, not what the government says it is once. And once again, I emphasize: The President should not be involved with this organization, because then it will be the end of all. It should be entirely with the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention, and the Karmazin law must be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-03-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, the question has been discussed and the decision will be taken in accordance with the Rules on Thursday. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 16 hours of work on committees, factions, and groups. Tomorrow we will begin our work at 10 a.m. according to the schedule of meetings and our work on Thursday. Thank you, good-bye.
