ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u1	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats, we'll continue our work. Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for registration. Please turn the system on. Please register. [[16:06:32]] Registered -375 There are 375 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We're continuing our work. Dear National Deputies! During the break, factions and the Conciliation Council met. Your attention will now be on three motions for a vote. The first is to vote in favour of the decision of the Conciliation Council, namely: the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" to vote on the basis so that on Thursday we can consider the proposals and accept the document as a whole. [[This is number 1225.]] I'll put it to a vote. Please prepare for the vote. Please turn the system on. Please determine your national MPs. [[16:08:14]] For-80 The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the schedule for the Supreme Council of Ukraine meeting on July 2-5, 2002 at number 1280. Please vote. [[16:08:57]] For-140. The decision is not taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take your consideration of the next package of suggestions discussed at the Conciliation Council. Please listen to this package. There is a proposal for a meeting schedule for July 02, 2002, adding to it on Friday a review of the Cabinet’s Programme of Activities, as well as a draft law on the provision of harvesting with fuel - oil materials, as proposed by national deputy Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk. Please prepare to vote on this proposal. I'll rephrase the question, dear colleagues. This is the adoption of the Supreme Council decision on the calendar of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for July 02.05, 2002 under 1280 plus the consideration of the Programme of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers on Friday, July 5, as well as the consideration of the issue of ensuring the collection of oil and oil crops. Please vote. [[16:10:44]] For 235 I'll have the factions, please. Decision taken. We continue our work as distinguished national deputies. You are being reviewed by a draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. The spokesman for this issue is Minister of Agriculture Policy Ribhub. The committee suggests that, honourable colleagues, an informed consideration of this question: for a report — ten minutes, for a question to a reporter — five minutes, for a co - report — five minutes, for an answer to a question from a fellow reporter — five minutes, for a discussion and for a decision to be taken — ten minutes. Please. One minute, from the procedure, please, National Deputy Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u2	Thank you. Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to today's agenda for our meeting where this bill is written and reported by the appointed Minister of Agriculture, Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich. I'm talking about this because, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there's a shameful practice going on, which goes on for years, when the President in particular defines ministers' reports, and government secretaries, deputy secretaries, and so on. We must do everything we can to ensure that respect for the Supreme Council, the supreme legislative body of the State, is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u3	Dear Valentin Grigorovich, I am completely, and I think all the national MPs fully share your position, especially what I called a reporter and he was up for recess. I think we're about to give a protocol commission to the presidency, and let's make this a commission to the Head of the Supreme Council so that I can deal with this issue with the Prime Minister of Ukraine so that this shameful practice can be over. It's still not going to happen. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, Luzan Yuri Jakovic. And I want to say that Sergei Mikolaiovich Ribuk, unfortunately, was unable to attend today's meeting, as an important meeting is now taking place with the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u5	I ask you to report on the substance of the matter, and we will find that out in an orderly manner. You don't need excuses, you're not a lawyer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u6	You will see a draft of the Act on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity with regard to the introduction of licensing for wholesale trade in sugar. This project is designed to meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. I would like to stress that one of the priority tasks of the beet-sugar sector is to ensure that the quality of the product meets the applicable safety requirements for human health. Sadly, in recent years the wholesale sugar trade has taken on an enormous number of agrarians. They are also directly manufacturers, sugar factories, individuals, suppliers of resources, traders, and many other entrepreneurs. This does not always guarantee the quality of the product, the storage conditions, the distribution, the quality of the packaging used, the quality certificates and the conformity are very often falsified, other negative trends are noted. Such a situation creates a prerequisite that much of the sugar is realized in natural markets, on the sidelines of roads, and in other unsanitary conditions. The uncontrollability of the implementation process contributes to the tinning of the sugar market, the decomposition of prices for such important strategic products. An environment that helps to avoid tax evasion is formed. In general, it is virtually impossible for tax authorities to control the full payment of taxes. The introduction of licensing will avoid many negative trends in the field, such as forcing manufacturers to pay particular attention to the quality of production, to engage in technical re-arms, to more effectively track the sugar market and to take appropriate state and regional measures more quickly, to increase control over the full payment of taxes, to allow more efficient transition to monetary accounts, to move away from the tax scheme for sugar beet processing, to minimize natural pay and also to eliminate such a disgraceful phenomenon as barterization. It'll also allow you to get as far away from the shadow economy as possible. And what's important is to strengthen the protection of the consumer state. The Cabinet of Ministers will develop appropriate licensing procedures to implement this law, and taking these arguments into account, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? If you have one, please sign in for five minutes. Please record. Let's take a look at the board. National Deputy Kalinchuk, Ukrainian Agrarian faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Yuri Yakovitch, of course, what you've said makes sense and makes sense, but please tell us how this will affect those agricultural producers that are growing sugar beet trees today, and unfortunately, for now, they're counting sugar factories, how will they implement this sugar if they have less than 100 tons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u9	The point is, I was saying that one of the measures that the Cabinet of Ministers is taking is to avoid a fiscal accounting scheme, and this will, in principle, make it possible to go to monetary accounting schemes. I think that's exactly what market economy requires of us and the situation in the field and. Money bills, I think that's what's necessary for farmers today. This is more important than the tax system.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u10	Thank you. People's MP, Billorus, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u11	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Oleg Yuhnowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u12	National Deputy Yukhnovsky, Oleg Yukhnowsky
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u13	Thank you. Oleg Yukhnovsky, faction of the constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko Dear Yuri Yakovich, I will certainly support the project that you have just reported from the Supreme Council. But I do have a few questions for you. First of all, they apply, please tell me, briefly, what is the government's action now regarding the restriction of smuggling, I mean from Moldova, Belarus? And also, what policy is now being pursued by the government regarding imports of sugar-sparing sugar into Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u14	Thank you for asking. In fact, I want to say that there are rather unique facts about the uncontrolled import of sugar into the customs territory of Ukraine. And the government is taking appropriate measures: along with the strengthening of control and customs authorities and border authorities, we have made proposals today -- and the Cabinet of Ministers has supported -- the Ministry of Agriculture Policy on the removal from free trade of sugar with Russia, Belarus and Moldova. This has greatly protected our internal Ukrainian sugar market. I think these measures in the complex will help stabilize the price situation in the sugar market. As for the import of cane, no legislation or legislation on the import of cane into the customs territory of Ukraine has been adopted to date. At the same time, in Ukraine’s accession negotiations, many cane-producing countries raise questions about the introduction of sugar quotas from cane or cane for processing and further implementation of sugar in the Ukraine’s internal market. It is now under discussion to set such a quota of 200 thousand tonnes for the first year following Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, with the subsequent increase of this quota to 260 thousand tonnes. We believe that such concessions by Ukraine, with regard to the introduction of such a quota, will not have a significant impact on the internal market of Ukraine. And secondly, it will ensure Ukraine's normal perception of its membership in the World Trade Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u15	National MP Sulkovski, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to address you as the Head of the Supreme Council, which is very interesting when we're considering such important issues and the bill and so on and so forth for reasons unknown to us, even today we haven't been informed why there is no minister here. And we have a lot of questions on the committee, and we understand that he was grateful for the meeting. And that's why I have this question, or whether it's going to happen when we adopt this licensing law, or whether it's going to benefit only those who issue licenses. It seems to me that we have just recently brought about such difficult conditions for our peasants. Mediators were created, created as much as possible, even today, and it seems to me that they will be allowed to license the private structures themselves. And that's why I have such a specific question. It would be good for the minister to ask and someone to answer for it. The projects are being prepared, carried on, and so forth. I have a question for you. Can you say today that this will really benefit the manufacturer? Are you sure you're a reporter today in the rostrum or not? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u17	In my speech, I spoke for the arguments that speak for the bill. And I'm sure that the bill and the introduction of a license for wholesale trade will still bring order to the sugar market. Since it is our calculation that the sugar market is the most tinnitus, the biggest drink of barter operations with this type of product, the largest volumes of this product are used for natural wages. And it depreciates sugar prices to a degree, lowers the efficiency of production. So we think that the nominal introduction of licensing will just provide a more civilized market for this very important product for our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u18	Time's up. Please have a seat. A member of the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Economy, Property, and Investments, Philip Philipovich Budzigan, has the floor for the report. Please, Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u19	Deputies! At the meeting of the Economic Committee, the matter was considered. The Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment considered the issue and decided that the bill should be supported in the first reading. The issue is that on June 1, 2000, the Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity was adopted, and on June 17, 1999, the Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar was adopted. Under the 1999 law, the implementation of wholesale sugar in the internal market should be licensed. And the Licensing Act does not introduce this paragraph. Therefore, the adoption of the bill is intended primarily to protect domestic producers and to welcome it in the first reading. Thank you. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u20	Thank you. The question to the reporter is, are there any respectable colleagues? Is it? Please sign up if you have any questions. Please record. Let's take a look at the board. National MP Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u21	Philip Philipovich, please. Do you think Ukraine's main public task in the production of sugar is to meet the needs of the citizens of sugar in this vital product or to earn a profit from the sugar producer and the bribes received by the public officials who will license them? That's the first one. And the second. Is the adoption of this law somehow affecting the reduction of the price of sugar or will the price of sugar continue to rise?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u22	First question. Those two components you said, subtract the bribes, they're going to work positive. On the second question. Yes, the Cabinet of Ministers, according to the Sugar Act, regulates prices, and I don't think it's going to significantly affect the price increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u23	National Deputy Yavorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u24	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Zholkovsky districts, Lvivščina Dear colleagues! Well, sugar is our strategic product, the whole world knows. Tell me, please, I will normally vote for this project because it will not change anything at all, I'm sure. It's all a good purpose, and we have to do it. But whatever it is around this is going to be corruption, it's going to be abuse and stuff. That's my question. I would very much like to draw your committee's attention to the fact that, let's say at the end of last year, through my constituency, through the crossing of Cracow and through the Rava Russian, when. At the time when so much sugar was lying in our barns in the villages, there was a huge discharge, they brought so much sugar from Poland. Please tell me, is there any way to insinuate all this? It was a huge blow to our Ukrainian economy and to the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u25	I understand your question. I'll tell you that I'm from the region of IvanoFrankow and you know, not just sugar, but potatoes and a lot of other agricultural products. There's a screen, there's an opportunity. But there will be a meeting when, in fact, the state will be a state. And it doesn't just depend on sugar. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u26	National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of Ukrainian Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u27	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kalinczuk, Clothing, Ukrainian Agrarian faction. Dear Philip Philipovich, please tell me, after all, I want to hear, but we're adopting the law, we want to vote for it, it's supposed to stimulate production. Who, then, will be stimulated by the processing industry or by the producers of raw materials? Who? Or those and those? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u28	I'm not mistaken. Your committee has drafted a sugar law. And you know very well in this law that under this law, the question is that the sugar industry develops. And according to the government program you're supporting, your faction supports, that's what these are. And even the numbers can tell you that we now have to increase to 20.5 million tons of beet and to 2.26 million tons of sugar in 2005, according to the program you support. Thus, this law will stimulate both sugar beet production and sugar refiners.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u29	National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u30	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Philip Philipovich, I have two questions for you. Question one. Well, I don't understand. It's been a long time. And really, there were situations where we had enough sugar. Why didn't we bring these two laws into line in the past? And why did we give it a chance to say that if we were talking about how this would fix the market situation, why didn't we allow it to be brought here and put it in order? That's question number one. And question two. Who is the lucky one, so to speak, at this point, who is given the right to issue licences, under what conditions and who determines the rules of the game, who regulates the licensing mechanism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u31	On the first question, I'd like to ask you to speak to Catherine Vaschuk, who was the head of the Agrarian Committee, I think, and now there is. So it's a question to her. Well, in her committee, that law was passed on sugar. So you can explain to him Matthew. And the second question I'm going to give you is this. The point is, you pointed out that on the committee when we looked at this bill, and the committee comes up with a first-reading proposal. And I would very much ask, under the licensing law, the Cabinet of Ministers this is, and if we don't see for the second reading this license that it is and what conditions it is, I don't think we're going to vote for the second reading. Is that your answer? And I think you're going to support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u32	Question time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u33	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to say that this is the first bill to be considered by today's Supreme Council. So I would ask for his support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, there is a need for us to discuss this, there are willing to speak in the discussion. If you're interested, please sign up. Let's take a look at the board. National Deputy Belarus, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u35	I signed up to give the word to a major expert in this matter to Yukhnov, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u36	National Deputy Oleg Yukhnowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u37	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich, the faction of the constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I've come to realize that this is a very difficult question. The situation in which sugar is now present is extremely complex and, above all, the problems in the field are not caused by the law that governs the relationship in the sugar sector, but by the attitude I consider primarily the government's attitude towards this area. Let's think about how many normative acts have been carried out through the Supreme Council, in terms of what's been done, I mean, carrying sugar-sparing into Ukraine, practically these normative acts have destroyed domestic sugar production in Ukraine. This is the norm provided for in the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar, which provides for order in the wholesale trade of sugar. This will provide an opportunity in principle to avoid the speculations that exist today in today’s market. And with a whole range of complexes of action that should still be involved in the Cabinet of Ministers today, it will allow at least partially to resolve the situation in the sugar sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u38	Thank you. Question completed. Decision-making in accordance with the Rules will take place on Thursday. The draft Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the adoption of Tax Laws in the case of imports of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine is under consideration. The rapporteur is Minister of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich, co-rapporteur with the Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Terjehochin Sergio Anatoliyovich. As soon as it was reported that the minister had arrived. Please. Is there a minister? So he hasn't run yet. Dear colleagues, we will have the opportunity to tell the government on Friday how we should respect the Supreme Council. I now propose that I make a joint statement to the People's Deputies of Terhochin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u39	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. As Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak is a good economist, he may have decided not to go out to this rostrum, not to propose the adoption of these two laws. Now I want to tell you why. The first is the draft of Law 1196, submitted by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent under article 93 of the Constitution. The Committee on Finance reviewed the draft law and authorized me to comment on it and to express the position of our committee. The project deals with the introduction of a moratorium on the adoption of tax laws in the case of imports of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine. It would seem like a great offer if there wasn't a lot of "but." The first "but" is that it was only in 2000 that we passed the law, by the way, because of the veto, by which companies created with both foreign capital and Ukrainian investment were given the same tax regime, and so the same conditions of competition. That is, when this law is honestly enforced, import benefits simply cannot exist. The second "but" is that in the attractive form of a moratorium, the classic benefits of supply disappear, let's say, of a humanitarian or charitable nature there to the Ukrainian Red Cross, disability organizations, schools, institutions, other budgeters. Once this project is implemented, it'll be impossible to get grants there for a citizen operation and so on. The third "but" is based on the contradiction of the norms of this draft to the Constitution of Ukraine in many parts. I will not list all of them; I will quote just one: Article 93 gives the unreserved right of legislative initiative to the national MPs. If we adopt such a law, we will limit ourselves in the legislative initiative to passing other bills that deal with the issue. The Committee on Finance and Banking unanimously decided to reject the law. Our conclusion is accompanied by the main scientific expertise of the Supreme Council’s apparatus. And the last thing I can say is, if we adopt this law, those ratifications by enacting a law against avoidance of double taxation and establishing special rules on taxation of interest, dividends, royalty with other countries, we're not going to be able to accept either. I remind you that there are only two such laws in our possession this sessional week. Thank you for your attention. If you have a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u40	Is there a question for the national MP? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Suhiy, faction of SDPU (o)
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u41	Thank you. Sergei Anatoliyovich, I am personally impressed by the position of the committee, so I will not talk about this much, that the provision of certain tax benefits is one of the powerful means of public policy to stimulate the development of key industries. Please tell me there's an explanation note saying that it's supposed to save the budget by 400 million dollars. What money are they talking about, where they're going to take it, when they're not easy?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u42	Indeed, it is, you know, how the skin of an unkilled bear is shared. Because it is suggested that we evaluate our possible legislative initiatives to set up a 400 million dollar premium. Thus, the subjects of the legislative initiative were appreciated.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u43	People's deputy Semenyuk. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u44	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, as a member of the agrarian committee in the past, I have observed such a tendency that, as autumn, the harvesting congregation, we immediately introduce introductory duties. The price in the internal market then falls accordingly. As in the spring, once the brokers have acquired the goods, they bring us documents in the session room to cancel the export duty. So already the price in the external market is going to rise accordingly. When a peasant sows in the spring and gathers in the fall, mediators and shulers thus carry out the harvesting work today by carrying out appropriate standards. Is there such a norm in this document today that will make it impossible, and do you guarantee that in the spring we will not be presented again with an appropriate submission to distinguish this document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u45	Well, Valentino Petrovno, reverend, according to you, once again, with the authority of a national deputy of any, with the constitutional right of legislative initiative of such a guarantee cannot be. Because every day it can be made to Parliament and Parliament's decision to either narrow down these rules or extend these rules. And in general, I would like once again, honourable deputies, to emphasize the paradox of this law as such. This is a law imposing a moratorium on the legislative initiative of the national deputies. I think only this explanation can determine the fate of this project's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u46	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u47	Matvienkov, Mariupol, 55th District. Dear Sergey Anatolyevich. I kind of agree with you, not in any way. The law will enter into force and it will be in force until we adopt a new law that will already grant benefits on certain issues, all laws have equal force and equal meaning. Therefore, we can adopt the following law to correct and repeal it, but the issue is not in this benefit you realize that this phenomenon is not normal, which must be equal, normal, transparent rules of the game for all. What we sometimes call benefits in most cases is a normal condition for the work of the manufacturer, and you also understand it beautifully. So I'm asking you how we're going to speak as one of the heads of the committee. When we see not what is full, but a “balwanka” of the Tax Code of other regulatory instruments that have allowed us to move away from the system of concession and move on to the normal work of planning, the construction of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u48	Thank you. On the first part of your question, I would like to give two examples. Have no illusions that when this law is passed, the benefits cannot be fixed. I'm just going to give you one example before the election from the list of offshore zones today's government has removed Cyprus. Why? In order not to apply the discriminatory norm of the law on income taxation, which does not allow 15 percent of the costs of offshore operations to be written off at gross costs. As soon as the elections ended, Cyprus was reintroduced into the list of ocean zones. That's why you can make anything with this law. As to your question, in fact. I will be very happy with this ideology in my report to the head of the Committee on Budgets, who presented a report by the Government on the budget last year on the fact that if the Supreme Council decided to set up a special committee or a special working group, which would still be out of the state of the document submitted by the Government made a normal document and at least in a year's time. We would have introduced him as a full-fledged tax code. I hope, Sergey Anatolyovich, knowing your competence in this matter and your participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u49	National Deputy Assadchev and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u50	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am very grateful that you gave me your word, especially since my question is not to Teryochin, but to you. If this project hadn't been for the Pezident, I wouldn't have taken the floor. The president submits a project as an urgent project called the draft law on the introduction of a moratorium on the adoption of laws. It's just a laugh. I understand that when you were head of the Administration, the President did not pass such laws. Now, of course, we already have a great lawyer there, you know, who teaches the whole population. So I just have a proposition for you. You explain to Mr. Medvedchuk that he might explain to the President, although of course it was not the President's initiative to pass the Law on the adoption of a moratorium on the adoption of laws." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u51	Thank you. Time's up, thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak. Please go to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, are there any questions for the minister right now? I'm asking you to sign up. As long as the minister's coming, I think it'll be quicker to ask him a question. Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National MP Mishur, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u52	Dear Alexander Mikhailovich! I'm right here. If you can, give me a report. Who is the author of this idea of introducing such a law to the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u53	Government of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u54	National Deputy Assadchev, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u55	Thank you. Alexander Vitaliovich, I just asked you a question, you must have heard it, and I want to ask you anyway. How can a law be passed on the introduction of a moratorium on the adoption of laws? Imagine that we passed such a law, and the following law introduced the benefits. And what will be the effect of the Maratorium, or the law in which we introduced the new aid?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u56	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. I think you yourself understand very well the sophistication that's put directly into your question. I want to emphasize one thing and I would like to correct Sergio Anatoliovich, who spoke from this rostrum. Of course, the law has an economic dimension and a few words about it, if there's such a need, I would say, but it has an aspect of another. We've been spilt in the economy today in such a way that we have today legislation on taxation in different areas, in different fields, and therefore I absolutely support Sergey Anatoliyovich, but in this case, Matviyenko, who says that we need the only and transparent rules, not to stop the "renovation" of tax legislation in Ukraine with constant taxation. That's why it's about us being together -- and I want to emphasize it -- taking voluntary restraints to introduce new tax benefits. And when Sergei Anatoliyovich says that this law is necessary only to limit the legislative initiative of the national MPs, it is not true, Sergey Anatolyovich. This is a restriction on the legislative initiative of the President, the government, and the national MPs. Let's make a mutual assumption that for this small period of time until 1 January 2004, until we adopt the Tax Code, we'll stop the further subsidisation that destroys the Ukrainian economy. That's the whole logic, so to speak. Yes, laws can certainly not be passed, but it is important, if you want, to send a certain signal, which today sends both a parliament and a government that we stop this kind of practice. Otherwise, we don't think we can contain the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u57	National MP Taran, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u58	Dear reporter! The fact is that the law, more specifically the bill, clearly contradicts 93 articles of the Constitution. If it is contrary to article 93 of the Constitution, that is, if it restricts the legislative rights of national deputies, it cannot even be regarded as a violation of the Constitution. This is clear. But it was also clear here that under this law, if it had been adopted, it would not have been possible, or let's say, there would have been problems with grants, there would have been problems with ratification and so forth. So he would bring chaos, that's definitely true. And yet, the President is offering to accept it as urgent, let's say so. And so I have a question: who needed this law in that case? To be honest and to call things his names, what is he lobbied about, what interests he lobbies? If he brings chaos, but all of a sudden. It's against the Constitution, but this is where it needs to be accepted. Let's be honest about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u59	Thank you. You know, I'd understand how the question would have been if I had asked for some help from the rostrum, and you asked, who would have the benefit? But when we ask the question, why don't we just give up the further pay-as-you-go, and you ask, who's comfortable with us lobbying? We lobbied one thing: not chaos, but order in the Ukrainian economy. Now, about grants and all that. I assure you that all necessary legislation is regulated today. Any grant will be ratified according to the legislation you adopt today. This is about stopping the provision of new benefits. We don't even ask about the difference of others, it's a complicated procedure, we'll do it when we adopt the code. But if we have made a joint decision, moving in a certain order of taxation today, we do not have to make the mistakes we made before on the way. So we're lobbying one thing: order in the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u60	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u61	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Mr. Secretary, the bill you're proposing has a formal logic that can be supported. Because, in fact, we have already developed a third generation of oligarchs on our benefits in Ukraine. And, really, soon there will be no more benefits. But this law, in my view, has little prospect because those who have benefits do not vote for it, and those who do not have benefits do so with suspicion. But I have a specific question for you. If this law is adopted suddenly, please tell us, and the free economic zones, which have all the borders of Ukraine on all sides, which have become just black holes, have a huge number of products that are then shipped all over Ukraine. Tell me what to do. We will ban free economic or special economic zones. Or what's the point of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u62	Free economic zones. I think we have a huge problem today with the free economic zones and priority development areas that are being created in Ukraine today. And when I said that there are some tax regimes in Ukraine today, I meant them. However, when we prepared this bill, we realized that we would not be able to make a decision on the immediate elimination of the benefits right now. This is about stopping the supply of new ones now. As far as free economic zones are concerned, I would like to encourage those who are interested in the subject to the next. We recently reviewed the activity of free economic zones in 2001 and in the first quarter of 2002. We've prescribed all the positive and negative sides. In the near future, I hope that we will bring a draft decision to Parliament on the abolition of certain free economic zones that have not completely justified themselves. We're going to introduce a bill that will make it impossible in the further curtain under the brand of free economic zones for product groups 1.24, that is, food that is ruining our competitive market today. And a number of other legislative acts that will help us make work in these zones more civilized and intelligent. That's why today's one moment, one moment, we would consider it impossible to give up such a formula. As for the adoption and the giving of this law. I want to emphasize once again, as you said, the formal logic of the law. If we accept it, it means the Supreme Council Committee and the Supreme Council themselves are refusing to adopt legislative initiatives, whether it's the President, whether it's the Government, or the People's Deputies, saying it's the law. I'm assuming that one of them will go to the rostrum and demand the adoption of this law is his constitutional right. But if we make arrangements in this room that this is not going to happen, this law will not be voted on. If you want, it's a test test for a certain will in the order in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u63	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to discuss this? Is there a desire to speak in the heat? Please sign up. Let me explain. As long as the recording is done, National Deputy Assadchev, please. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u64	Thank you again, Mr. Head, for your word. I'd like to speak now, of course, on the subject that's stuck. This is a very important subject. And that's true, and here we have to support both the government and the ministry. But the solution is very primitive. You can't be so observant about this problem. Why, for example, did the government not now make more specific proposals? Who did these economic zones? The government did, and we remember printing one by one. Who in most cases did all these tax preferences? They were mostly introduced by the government. Let's introduce a number of legislative acts today, let's say we cancel a number of these free zones once. Let's say the income tax is one-and-a-half percent, which is now going for military personnel, housing construction, that's almost a billion. Let's clean up this preference, replace it with another substitute. The VAT, which today goes to agricultural producers, is now shown where it is actually going. And that's about 700 to 800 million dollars. So if the government had passed a specific bill on these specific things, I think we had a very serious conversation today. You can't be so observant about such things. So I would suggest that the Government prepare such legislative acts, and very importantly, by the end of this session, because it will then be able to form a budget with enough serious additional revenue for the budget to be planned for 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u65	National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. How convenient for you, please. Turn the microphone on to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u66	Dear National Deputies! We need to separate the flies from the wrinkles. I think we need to support the government in its desire to put an end to this avalanche of creeping. This is the very right position of the government. This is the case when I agree with the government. Indeed, when we looked at statistics, we passed 33 laws and regulations last year. It was about a billion dollars. If you look at how many benefits are being eaten, there are different statistics, and about 30 billion are eating the benefits. Sometimes we are told that we have excessive tax pressure. That is true, but not the whole truth and not the basic truth. The problem is not just to reduce tax pressure but to evenly distribute taxes. That's the problem we can't solve. And that's why we really need to agree on that. But on the other hand, I agree with my colleague, Deputy Assadchev, that this problem cannot be solved directly, in the forehead, to ban the legislative initiative. Here we either had to make an agreement, really, that is, some political agreement to sign or publish or at least agree on this argument that we are not going to do that, or we are going to propose some specific bills that would really put an end to this process. Legally and politically, we cannot legally prohibit MPs from proposing bills, and that is, indeed, nonsense. So in the specific way that the government put it, this right idea in the package where it did it, under that sauce, really, it's causing a denial. So I think the idea itself needs to be supported, but the concrete way of implementing it is we can't. So, I think that when it comes to voting, I'm going to be stretched out between wanting to support the government and not being able to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u67	National MP Pavlovsky. Mikhailo Antonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u68	Thank you. Pavlovski, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, the "Fatherland" party. Honorable Presidency, members of the government, colleagues. I want to draw attention to this kind of contradiction. Note that the President’s letter to the Supreme Council emphasizes innovation. Yesterday, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Seminozhenko presented their book "Innovative Development". Let's move on. This law will no longer be possible because innovation throughout the world goes with state support and with benefits. Moreover, these are high technologies that are not available in Ukraine today, but are leftovers. So let's say the radio-electronic industry gives us 0.13 percent of our budget. Then can she have the benefits? Sure. And in the United States, 50 percent to their GDP, 500 billion dollars. And by the way, last year's U.S. Congress continued its benefits to the U.S. electronics sector for another five years. We passed a few separate laws: support for the aviation industry, the same electronics was an attempt, such a law, by the way, the Supreme Council passed, the President of the veto imposed. So you can see the contradiction here. What is more, in developed countries, technology parks are at the heart of such rapid development, and technology parks are built on benefits for the innovation process. For example, China has 140 tech parks, the United States has more than 100, and Ukraine has only 7, and they haven't started work yet. And now we're stopping this process. So this is going to be a pattern that the government first needs to adopt a conceptual law, where it can determine the directions, the areas in which it's going to be innovative directions in which the benefits are needed, because without that it's not possible in principle. The second direction is the branches and the directions where the benefits are really, really unnecessary. That's what I'm going to figure out. And now that these directions are in place, they are filled with specific laws. The same President must immediately submit bills for the implementation of his message. If we support today's bill, we will destroy the President's message to the Supreme Council. We're going to destroy all the ideas that are in the monograph of Kinach, Semenozhenko and Heic. So the government is going to cut itself. With the help of the Ministry of Economics and Integration. It's good for Europe to integrate, because they're going to bring us everything, but we have to lead them, and we need high technology for one purpose -- there's never going to be a high wage in a country that doesn't have high technology. And world statistics show a wage ratio in a country with high technology, and the world’s old - fashioned appendage goes from 20 to 40. We have a 30 ratio today, so we have the status of a colony, we export raw materials and intelligence, and we don't implement that intelligence when there's such a bill. So it needs to be rejected, and the Minneconomys need to think about development and propose a conceptual bill to support the innovative development of our state. And national MPs from different sectors should propose bills that support high technology in Ukraine so that it doesn't go as well as the compact law. The government wanted to stop our production, and the Ukraine of the world gave away the technology of laser compacts and we wanted to stop it for metal exports because it's a raw material. So I'm proposing this very proposal to put the government's activities at the core and to present the relevant bills with these three proposals, and this one needs to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u69	Dear National Deputies, the discussion is over, and with regard to the decision, we will be determined in accordance with the Rules on Thursday on this subject. You are looking at a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to give the Cabinet of Ministers the right to set and change the rates of import duties. Report by Minister of Economics and European Integration Alexander Vitalievich Schlapak Please. Dear colleagues, we have five more bills to consider, and I would like to ask that we work quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! One of the main tasks of the bill is to ensure that duties are reviewed expeditiously, depending on the situation in the external and internal markets in order to protect the national producer. The process of drafting, agreeing, and adopting, and enacting, of course, takes several months to six months. Such low operationality in a number of cases results in some economic losses, both for the owners and for the state budget. I could give you a few examples. Thus, for example, Ukraine’s Act to Change the Customs Tariff for Ukraine’s Beehives, Spirits, Brown Clothing and so forth, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers at the end of 2001, was adopted only on March 7, 2002. The adoption of the law was due to the need for a rapid response to market developments, and the delay in adopting it has led, according to our estimates, to the loss of the State budget of some one and a half million dollars. The same situation took place in the diamond industry. This is even worse because you and I have been looking at a bill that was very much needed by our industry for more than a year. So it happened that we actually put the profit field on our knees because for a long time we couldn't take the imported customs off directly unprocessed diamonds. Another example I wanted to give is the adoption of the Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to implement Ukraine's regulations on textile trade between Ukraine and the EU. We have adopted this law directly in the Supreme Council for about five months. This led to the fact that the law was passed and signed by the President, entered into force only at the end of February 2002, when it was due to enter into compliance with the January 1st agreements. And it was worth the effort of our diplomatic, economic corps to agree with the European Union on non-return to quota and continue to work in quota-free mode. According to our estimates, the losses could reach about $240 million in the United States alone in our trade with the European Union. These examples are not so much so far, since the standard that Parliament not only sets but also changes import rates has been in effect since July 1st last year. That's why the bill that we're proposing for your consideration is proposed to return to the situation that took place before July 1, 2001, when the taxes are fixed and changed by the Supreme Council. As for the rates of import on non-taxation goods, the issue is being considered by the Customs Tariff Council and is ultimately taken up by the decision of the Ukrainian government. For help, I would like to say that in most countries our trading partners are given the right of the government to change the rates of import duties. This will only lead to one more operation in the work of us as well as the parliament, the government assessing the situation that arises in one area or another and making the necessary decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Any questions? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. People's Deputy Kiwalov, faction of Ukraine. He's giving up the word. National MP Taran, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u72	Victor Taran, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Dear Mr. Minister of Economy! I'm going to apologize to you in the early hours, because my question is not going to apply to the substance of the law. But since I am not so often able to do so, let’s say that other MPs have direct communication with government members, you might agree and answer my question. Although it does not apply to the substance of this law, I repeat. But it is very important. The point is that Prime Minister Kinakh and Prime Minister Kristenko signed an agreement on the sharing of gas shelters and on the cost of using these gas shelters. As stated at the press conference by Mr. Christiano, this price is confederate and it is not advertised. So if you please, if you agree to answer what the deal is, because even we are national MPs, we don't know that. What is the price of using Ukrainian gas shelters and so forth in this context? Thank you. If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u73	Thank you. Unfortunately, I will not be able to satisfy entirely yours. to answer your question. I will only say the things I know because I did not take part directly in the preparation of this agreement. The point is that during all the years of independence of our nation, Ukrainian gas depots for transporting Russian gas abroad were used for free. And it was just last year that we asked the first question about what this service would have to pay for. As long as we had the unresolved issue of debt for gas, the Russians firmly refused to answer that question in principle. Because they believed that we owed them much more than the Russians did to us for the direct storage of the treasures of the gas vault. That's why last year we first agreed to pay a certain amount. I can't give you numbers right now, I don't know them. And this year, we insisted that an agreement be signed on what civilian rules they would use gas shelters to pump their gas, transport more than 100 billion gas to Europe. I don't think this information, well, in a lot of ways, is very confidential. If you make a parliamentary request, I think Naknaftogaz will be able to answer you more specifically about the terms of this agreement and maybe tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u74	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u75	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, I understand your concern, I understand that the Supreme Council is working very well, and then it's signed the President's laws for a long time. And we don't really get to get into this by January 1st, so the world, so to speak, of the regime, when all of this has to be lit up. I agree with you. But, Alexander Vitaliyovich, here you see in such a narrow company, a couple of dozen national deputies, we are so family. Between us, so that no one else hears, please tell me how this is going to go in the Cabinet of Ministers, how many officials are going to prepare this question, and how many bribes about, you didn't count, will be taken as long as this decision is made quickly. Thank you for your frankness and for your complete and bold response.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u76	Thank you. The procedure for such decisions in the Cabinet of Ministers for today is clearly regulated. An appropriate customs tariff board was created. And we'd be happy to invite you to participate in this professional conversation on the customs tariff board about assessing one or the other import duties by one or the other goods, any of the national MPs, it's open to discussion. But I would like to point out one more thing without offending you, Mr. Volodymyr. Whatever the family environment we're in here in, having a fundamental economic discussion about the rates of import duty, it's impossible to do that in this room. That's why. This can be done when there are serious accounting experts, with estimates, with public hearings that are being held here today. In addition, the current norm requires a government’s opinion when making decisions by Parliament. Hence, those bribes that may be taken from one another and may be taken. We will not be saved by today’s order or by the order even we offer from this shameful phenomenon. Only the real life we live with is going to be dealt with here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u77	People's MP, Billorus, faction of the block of July Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u78	Please pass the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u79	Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u80	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovitch, Pavlovsky, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, I have been given the floor by a member of the Academy of Sciences, a doctor of economic science, a prophet of the University of Economics. I'm also a doctor of technical and economic sciences, so you see, the experts here are on the Supreme Council, and that's not why we need to be humiliated. I'd like to draw your attention. You may not have been in the government when the Cabinet of Ministers handed over the right to issue laws and decrees in 1992, and you know what led to the fact that five million so far of our population are unable to recover because they have been deceived by their contributions. So because the problem of bribes is there and you admit it, all the projects in this direction can be signed by the President as soon as possible, and once we understand the situation, we can make quick decisions without bribes and there are enough experts in the Supreme Council to convince us and we can support you if there are reasonable decisions in the interests of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u81	Thank you. I just wanted to say, I didn't mean to offend the distinguished national MPs. I was going to say that just the Supreme Council Hall is not the place for such a discussion. I wanted to call this discussion into a circle that's doing a study of a particular market, and that's all I wanted to say. And with great pleasure in any other form, we will still work with the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u82	Thank you. Time is up. Thank you, Alexandre Vitaliovich. For the purpose of this report, Sergey Terjohin, a national deputy, is the Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that the draft Law 1201, submitted by the President of Ukraine, is being proposed for your consideration as an urgent matter. I am asked to comment again on its content and to express the committee’s position. The project is about granting Kabmin the right to change the import rate without agreeing with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, the project provides for a rule whereby the Supreme Council will have the right to modify the product codes that are subject to import duties, solely with the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers. In the first case, this proposal is strictly contradicted by the first part of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, we all remember that it speaks of taxes and congregations, compulsory payments, including import duties, and the Ukrainian Tax System Act. In the second case, the proposal strongly contradicts the Ukrainian Act on the One Customs Tariff, which we adopted less than a year ago and which has only recently entered into force. If you go back to the practice of applying Kabmin's rights to change the size of the import duty, interesting are these examples. During 1997, Kabmin was granted an exemption to individual companies for a fixed period of time. Despite the severe opposition of the then Supreme Council Government, it did adopt a rule that could not be set free for an individual importer. However, over the years 1988-92 the Cabinet of Ministers has made repeated decisions on the establishment of import duties at the level of, let's say, one hundred per cent of the defined groups of goods at the time of delivery. And it came to light that there's an example where one hundred percent of the time, three days later, there's a total rate of about twenty percent. Clearly, this led to the formation of profits associated with the government by companies and corrupted the principles of competition. As a result of numerous complaints against the executive branch in 2000, the Supreme Council passed a law by which the rules for the establishment of import duties went to the Supreme Council, except for those established within anti-dumping procedures and special customs regimes. This project, the executive, we think, is trying to take back the right to import duties, and this effort is formally explained by the inertness of the Supreme Council on the consideration of projects submitted by the Cabinet in agreement with the Customs Council. However, import duties are taxes, importers should plan costs related to commercial or capital investments in Ukraine, and the Cabinet of Ministers should combat corruption of its individual members. The committee unanimously recommends that the bill be rejected. And you know, at the end of the day, I'd like to mention the famous saying that, you know, this slogan was, "Pay taxes, because the family of a simple member of the government is counting on you"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u84	Any questions? If you have any questions, please. No questions? No, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u85	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u86	Are they willing to make a statement in this regard? Pavlovsky's national deputy will be followed by the national deputy of Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Pavlovski, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, the "Fatherland" party. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the danger of this law. Well, we've already cleared up about the bribe. But it's not that, it's that the government wants to get away from parliamentary control. If we adopt laws, at least we have the formal right to control the implementation of these laws, and when we pass it on to the Cabinet of Ministers, we don't control this process -- this is once. On the other hand, many foreign firms are very indignant about the bribes that our officials are taking, and on the other hand, I want to draw attention to this one fact. The former, now late Minister of Industry Malev gave me an answer to this question, and I asked him, "Why can nine companies make and manufacture gas counters, while Skrnaftogaz gives orders to utilities to buy only imported ones because they are worse by technical characteristics and so on? " I say: "How do you understand?" And he gave me a very clear and simple answer. He says, "You know, not much, but for every gas counter that comes into Ukraine, they only put half a dollar in their pocket. And once 3 million are imported, one and a half million are in your pocket. And our bribe makers don't give in. Here's the problem. So we understand that we need to be quick to accept questions. The mechanism for the rapid adoption of drafts is, you can make a pool of proposals, the government can even predict, at least a few months ahead, take steps. We will meet and even vote if very urgent, not even on Thursday, and even on Tuesday we can vote. Therefore, we must not make the same mistakes twice. In 1992, he taught us many things — that is, we cannot give to the government. Well, that's why they came up with this distinction between branches of power: the legislature adopts laws, the executive - it executes, it has the right to legislative initiative, but it accepts the Supreme Council. And so, you see, the legislative initiative is, instead of the laws, they take decisions, the Supreme Council is isolated from control. Well, as the minister admits, he says, "Well, there's nothing we can do about bribes. Here, he says, "If much is gained, the brothers will cease." And appetite comes when you eat. Therefore, we cannot under any circumstances support this bill of government. We need to introduce a civil order of activities, as is done in developed countries. Each branch of government has to do its part, and for that reason there is mutual control and the Court of Auditors, so that government activities can be controlled. Because, you know, money doesn't smell, but I really want a lot of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u88	Thank you. National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u89	Honorable National MPs. I sincerely believe in the good intentions of government. But as we know, good intentions lead to hell. The truth is. A paved road to hell. But the truth is that taxes, excises, this is not a matter for the government, it's a matter for Parliament. And by the way, Parliament was set up to solve these problems, when the state arose, when public needs arose, it was necessary to accumulate funds. How to raise funds is a matter for the government, and how to allocate funds is a matter for Parliament. So I agree with Deputy Pavlovsky, who said that this function should not be given to the Government. Among other things, there was a time when the government had already done this function we had already passed on to the government the possibility of dealing with these issues, but he was dealing with these issues unsatisfyingly, and the Supreme Council again took these functions to the government. The truth is, too, that the Supreme Council is running a qualo and agile, it is not working quickly and really, if it takes on these functions, it has to do more quickly, more actively and more purposefully. So once again, we need to think about how we can design a mechanism for a more rapid solution to tax issues regarding excise duties. And especially customs and government does it in vain because the problem really exists, there really is a problem of custom regulation. And Parliament's making a bad decision, the government's pulling the blanket on itself, but it's starting to decide it wrong again. I think that this problem should still be resolved by Parliament, but more quickly, more qualified than it is now. And finally, to be completely honest and honest. Indeed, there is no guarantee in the bill that the Government will not abuse its duty. And I fully share the concern of the deputy Yavorowski, who expressed it in his question. But let's be honest that this flaw is not denied to Parliament. Under this dome are huge financial flows that affect Parliament’s decisions. So when we shift the arrow to the government and blame it on it, of course we can't forget what's going on in Parliament. In view of this whole set of circumstances, I don't think this bill is necessary, but we need to improve Parliament's work on taxes, on excise duties and duties, and request a parliamentary monitoring function. But this is already in a broader context than the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u90	Dear National Deputies! The discussion is over. A draft Law amending articles 41 and 134 of the Labour Code on increasing responsibility for late payment of wages is being introduced. Reporter - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Sahan Ivan Jakovic. Please, Ivan Jacobovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council was designed to implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on urgent measures to speed up the repayment of arrears from wages. The project is intended to complement article 41 and the 134th of the Labour Code with the aim of increasing the responsibility of business managers, institutions, organizations for late payment of wages. In particular, it is envisaged to complete part of the first article of the 41st with a new paragraph on the termination of the employment contract with the manager of the enterprise, institution, organization of the owner's initiative or authorized authority in the event that the manager is guilty of late payment of the salary during a certain period, resulting in compensation for the breach of the payable period. And to complete article 134 of the Labour Code with a new paragraph on material liability in the full extent of the damage caused by the manager of the enterprise, the institution, the organization in the event that the manager is guilty of the late payment of the salary, which led to compensation. I'm not going to take the time right now to make further arguments on this issue. I would like to point out that now the problem of debt with payout is gradually with great efforts by both the government and the parliament is shrinking. We have substantially reduced our debt, but the problem remains the adoption of the bill to strengthen our responsibility, in our view, will have a positive impact on the solution to this acute social problem. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Work considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. I ask the Supreme Council to support this bill and to adopt it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! Is there a question for Ivan Yakovitch? Please sign up. National MP Matthews, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u93	Ivan Yakovich, life is rich with such a thing. I'll give you a simple example. The Director of the State Enterprise, a shipbuilding plant named 61, does not pay for a long period of time, has a payroll obligation to the employees of the State-owned enterprise. There was not a single Prime Minister, the President, on a number of occasions, nor was there another Minister of Defence, including the Ukrainian national deputy Kuzmuk, who did not promise to repay the debt for the construction of the Ukrainian rocket cruiser. These debts include salaries. Would you tell me, please, what is the fault of this company's CEO? And will your amendment to this law provide for any exceptions when people get into this situation -- leaders -- not their own fault, not the market's fault, but the State's? It's because of the system we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u94	Dear Vladimir Josephovich, the question you are asking is very appropriate. In fact, today the state has owed a large sum of government orders, today they make up about 700 million so many estimates, and now the inventory of this debt is being carried out. As far as the application of this law is concerned, it is the rightful owner. And the state in this case is the owner. Break up the contract on that very basis. If the state is guilty in this case, if the government is unable to account for the government’s procurement, then the State is also responsible for the solidarity with the head of the enterprise for not paying the wages. But today we are talking about a number of businesses that, in other circumstances, work today and deal with these issues on their own. And there is no problem with the debt associated with the execution of a government order. So I think the amendments to the Labour Code are perfectly correct. They give the opportunity and the responsibility of the managers, and at the same time allow them to make informed decisions that will take into account the circumstances that you are now talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u95	National Deputy Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u96	Dear John Jacobovich, you and I have known each other for many, many years, and we are said to have always worked together. And I'm not going to criticize you, but I have to express my feelings of bitterness for what reason. You said this bill was being adopted for the execution of someone's decree. What gave birth to an egg or chicken?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u97	Dear John Sidorovich, I understand the subtext of your question, but what we're talking about here today is that out of the 7.5 billion debt on the salary that was in the economy, we have 2.5 billion today. This is the result of the implementation, including the President’s decree that the executive authorities be required to remove this negative, shameful phenomenon from the local authorities. And I've really reported that there's a commission that we've fulfilled, and the government has carried it out. I ask the people's deputies not to translate the matter into the political plane, but to translate it into the social protection of the people who need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u98	National MP, Mother, Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u99	Ivan Yakovich, Your Honor, we know each other very well. I'd like to ask you if there's any statistics, how many managers, really, for their own reasons, as a percentage of those who owe it, don't pay the wages for the reasons of corporate managers. I can only as a person who has worked for 22 years as a business manager, I can say that there is no business manager in Ukraine, it's maybe just like that, you know, how sheep are in the fold that wouldn't ask the first question -- to be counted in front of people. Because they're not the way we are here, they're looking at their employees every day. So I'd really like to hear, how many of these people are there as a percentage?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u100	Dear Vitalia Ivanovich, well, I think that as a person who represents the side of employers in the National Council of Social Partnerships, you're also interested directly in eliminating this phenomenon and we don't have a problem with the debt payout. This is the first time. Secondly, I would like to emphasize that the exact percentage I can't call leaders. But I can call specific examples dozens of times when the manager deliberately avoids paying wages. He's looking for ways to pay off through material aid, through some other form. That kind of thing, you know well, there are today. And they're well represented. And there's no, I think it's necessary to get involved in the discussion today, whether there are people or not. If even one executive is forced to pay off debt as a result of the adoption of this law, we will be able to improve the situation. I think that only makes people win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u101	Thank you, Ivan Jacobovich. Time's up, thank you. And now the co-reporter has to come forward for us to finish. The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich has the floor for the report. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome you all to the fact that today, for the first time since the day of our Parliament's work, we have begun to listen to the social law that defines the strengthening of the social protection of man's work. And it's not by chance that we're starting with you and the proposal of the deputies, not even the committee, but the proposal of the President. If the President is making changes to the Code, it is clear that we need to decide immediately what questions. First of all, these are changes to article 41. The point is that this change predicts that if the company's guilty manager pays the wages in a timely manner, then a member of the labour force is a trade union, or if other organizations have the right to break the employment contract. The second amendment is the amendment to the Code of Law to article 134, paragraph 9, which provides for the establishment of material responsibility for the late payment of wages. I want to tell you my respectable colleagues. In principle, there is no mechanism of influence on the employer, on the timely payment of wages and the Criminal Code and on!!! collective labour disputes, but they don't work today. I'll give you one example last year at the initiative of the business committees in Ukraine, over 25,000 lawsuits have been filed. For which managers were obliged to pay their wages on time. But only about 10 percent forced the company’s managers to pay back the debt. Because the responsibilities, as they are today, are not, if they are, small. That's why today, in order to solve the problem that James Sakhahn was talking about, is billions of debt in the manufacturing field. We must immediately accept these amendments to the Code of Work for Articles 41 and 134. And don't be afraid of the representatives of our businesses here. It doesn't translate responsibility into them. And the form of ownership is definitely a state form of ownership, it's not private. Therefore, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, having considered the President's proposals, has decided to support them, I ask the deputies to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u103	The question is for Alexander Mikolaiovich, please sign up, please. People's MP, Billorus, Timoshenko's Block of July.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u104	Please give the floor to national deputy Eugene Ivanovich Kirilczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u105	People's MP Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u106	Alexander Mikolaiovich, I know you very well. I know you're always worried about people who work. But don't you think we're tying the horses to this wagon on that side? Well, tell me, how many school principals are there, the hospital chiefs who have the money, and they don't pay the wages, they don't pay the teachers who go on vacation now? There's no money. What, then, about ordering those who do not have them? They don't come from the budget. And private entrepreneurs who buy Mercedes don't pay their wages, you won't order it. So tell me why this law, who needs it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u107	Thank you for asking. It's not about teachers, it's not about doctors, it's not about their managers, it's about managers of enterprises of different forms of property, of enterprises where manufacturing is going. That's what we're talking about, reinforcements. And of course, what goes on in the budget sphere is shared by the school director. Therefore, in general, we certainly need to make changes to the Pay - for - Work Act. This is, I agree with you, we need to start a car load with a change in the whole of the law. But even these partial changes to KZOT will increase, as a material responsibility, first of all the material responsibility for delaying wages, and because the same entrepreneur. What are we talking about? He paid his pay on time. We have to make up for it. He's making up for it. He did damage to the company, why didn't he pay on time? Let's work this out. But there's two sides. Whose fault? Whether it's the employer's fault or the state's fault. But in the case at hand, it is the responsibility of the head of the company who used the labor force to implement the product rather than to calculate with the worker. That's why he didn't pay. You know, there's the 87th ILO Convention. In fact, three times the government reported to the ILO session in Geneva, where the issue was raised. It's a violation of human rights, and nowhere in the world is there such a mechanism that a person who's been working doesn't get a salary -- it's a gross violation of human rights. So let's go step up this responsibility and then move on. This does not mean that the school principal, or the head doctor, will be held accountable, for these are budgetary expenses. It's about the manufacturing sector, first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u108	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u109	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, the super important law, of course, needs to be voted for, he's going to kind of normalize this chaos that we have today, because very often money actually rotates to the left and to the right and then comes to people. That is, both conscience and intuition indicate that the law must be voted in favour by two hands, and let anyone who votes against it shake his hand. But on the other hand, you've already touched the question a little bit, but I'd like to hear more from you as a professional very clear answer. Let's say the Writer's Association or the Artist's Association, I'm taking this area. So budget organizations, let's say, at least get grants from the budget. We don't get a salary in six months. What can I tell these people if I vote for this law? So I'm voting against myself in some way, because the government that makes the pitiful cents on all of this retention, plus this money is still going to the Treasury for a long time while they're in the Ministry. Am I not voting against myself, and you are against yourself, and someone else against themselves? Calm down, rebel soul.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u110	I want to calm you down, because I'm sure if you, as a budget manager, had money and you wouldn't pay it, the taxpayers would come tomorrow and fine you, because you don't have the right to keep the wages, the budget that came into your account. And here's the reverse, when you don't have this money and people ask you to, and you can't ask anything from the government, that's bad. Therefore, it is still necessary to decide on increasing the responsibility of government officials and those who are obliged to calculate the budget on time for payments. It's a very painful question, you know, we've talked about this over and over and over again, and there have been various measures and care. That is, the two sides are reinforced. Now, again, it's not the responsibility of your head of budget who's "naked as a falcon," it's those who have money today. I want to say more today, what's our system? The man worked for a month. The company manager must pay all taxes, six taxes in six funds, and six wages in the sixth place. By the way, in the near future, we're going to be looking at the priority of pay. First, the employer or the manager of the company should pay for the salary and then pay for everything else. Unfortunately, there's the President's veto, and we'll be over it in no time. That is why we need to strengthen the responsibility of the State. But in this case, we're talking about increasing the responsibility of the employer. But when you vote for this law, you do not take sin into your soul, you help those who receive wages today, especially in the manufacturing field.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u111	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Time's up. Are there those who would like to take part in the discussion? If they're desirable, please sign up. National Deputy Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry for this flash of activity, but I finally got to work. God damn it, I want to work. I'd rather go back to work in the morning. Dear colleagues, I appreciate your time. I must say that in my opinion, I share what Deputy Stoyan has said, this bill must be adopted without question. Of course, it does not solve all the problems that have arisen in wage policies and even wage policies. It's a smoker. But this bill is a step in the right direction. He reinforces the responsibility of employers to pay their wages. I agree that we need to work on strengthening the state, the role of the state, the responsibility of the state to pay wages. But in the context of improving economic policy, this bill is working for the future. Of course, we need to change our priorities. First of all, you have to pay your wages. It's also the right thing to do, not the sixth or seventh place. But that's what's beyond the scope of this law. Thus, although this law does not solve all problems, it does help to resolve the issue of wages and debts. So I believe that our sacred duty to our electorate is to support and vote in favour. Whoever votes "against" doesn't just shake their hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u113	You don't have to anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u114	You don't have to anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u115	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, I see there are no records. Who insists on the performance? I'm asking you to sign up for the next one. Let's go to the draft law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Labour Pay Act on natural pay. Reporter, again, Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivan Jakovic Sahan. Please, Ivan Jacobovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u116	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by a draft law amending article 23 of the Act on Pay for Work. This bill is submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as urgent. And because the bill proposes to amend article 23 to part of the limit on wages in a natural way and to set a limit on the price of goods paid for part of the wages. The need to limit wages in natural form was due to the spread in enterprises of all forms of ownership of the current wages and the repayment of natural debt at prices that far exceed the cost of the production produced on this enterprise. Employees are forced to accept such conditions of pay, even though such forms of accounting are not always desirable to them, as provided by law and appropriate ILO conventions, because workers are actually underpaid. At the same time, there is no payment to the pension fund and there is also substantial damage to the pension fund and the lack of possibility to pay pensions to pensioners. It's proposed to limit wages in kind by 50 percent, not more than 50 percent of the monthly wage. At the same time, it is suggested that the price limit for the goods paid for part of the salary is not higher than the cost. According to the developers, it will allow you to force some of the managers who use this form of pay, gradually get out of barter relations, translate the pay into cash, and which makes it inconvenient to pay wages at prices that are at cost, that is, incentives to sell the product properly paid in cash. These proposals do not conflict with the standards of the International Labour Organization convention. And we think it will also stimulate wage improvement, protect workers, first of all, agriculture, because there are 57 percent of wages in general that are made in a natural way, in terms of depreciation, and in terms of improving people's living standards. I'd like to support this bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council also suggests that it be accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u117	Any questions to the minister? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. People's MP Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u118	Ivan Ivanovich, how do you view any barter and pay off the ready-made product as a definite ban? It's funny. Well, it releases a pan factory, it's calculated with people with pots. And the tax is imposed -- we have to find, somewhere else, we have to borrow money or a pot to sell taxes to pay money because they don't accept taxes with pots. And that's why we call our country a state of paradoxes. We actually have a question of payback -- it's already a funny one. As you look at not allowing a percentage, but definitely banning payment on products, just money.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u119	Thank you for asking. Here we need to split the payment of wages in natural form, which is also provided by the relevant concepts of the International Labour Organization and the laws of Ukraine, which are desirable and common to the economy in particular in agriculture. As for what you said on the pan, it's not a payday, it's a sale of produce at the expense of a salary. And in this case, I'm completely supportive of you, and we've discussed this problem, but we think that acceptance is completely different from this form in the natural form of salary payments when it's desirable for a worker to be contrary to the international obligation of Ukraine because we ratified the relevant ILO Conventions that provide for this worker's right. And secondly, in agriculture today, this is really going to lead to an increase in debt on wages. Obviously, there will be some difficulties in this system of things. And in this case, we propose to limit these possibilities and encourage the employer to pay their wages in a natural way. However, we believe that these actions will stimulate him to reverse this form of wage payment, which actually distorts the situation and causes people to act as traders.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u120	National Deputy Noshchenko, Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u121	160 Deaf County. Dear Ivan Yakovic, I will support this bill because the issue is extremely relevant. Today, virtually every meeting in the constituency. And this is a topical issue that managers abuse and try to pay in kind, not quality products at high prices. And the question is, if we're going to protect people, or if we don't have to regulate what the employee agrees to do. Because we can't dictate how much and when in the session room. That's the first one. And in my opinion, we have to write down the exact time frame for the cost of the product. So that's not the case, given the practice of last year, when the price of wheat goes on for 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u122	Please check the microphone of the Noshchenka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u123	I understood the question, Your Honor, Mikola Petrovich. I would answer it in such a way that both the law that regulates these issues and, accordingly, the ILO Convention provide that a partial payment of wages is being made in kind, where such benefits are suitable for the personal consumption of workers, their families or they have been of some benefit to them. Such an extradition seemed to be reasonably reasonable. I mean, this is an ILO convention that we can't break. And in this context, I would like to emphasize that this is exactly what it means to agree, but the point is that a hired worker sometimes agrees without wanting to do so, because he is told: either you will not get a salary at all, or you can take at a price that is twice the cost of production, the market price. Let's say three or four bracelets of sugar. In this case, we bring our actions into line and limit the manager’s right to impose his will on a hired worker, protecting his interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u124	Thank you. National MP Mishur, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u125	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Dear Ivan Yakovich! I was listening to Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan say that the president and the government are dealing with such serious issues, although he should not sign a social partnership agreement, but I think it's a contract for better exploitation of the worker. Can't you initiate to invite him as a leader, because he always said that "I came to Parliament not only as a national MP, but as a protector of the interests of the workers and so on" to initiate such a meeting and together with them to make a comprehensive law that would protect a worker in the field of salary, because someone is given in envelopes, someone is going to knock helmets on asphalt and so on, let's say, a budget man for six months doesn't pay a teacher or a doctor there. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u126	In fact, I think that the laws adopted by the Supreme Council on this issue are enough to regulate the employment relationship between the employee and the employer. What we are doing today is trying to improve this law. And what I want to say is that we're now actively preparing a new draft of the Labour Code, and it's probably going to be called, well, a working name like that. So it's not the Code of Labour, it's the Labour Code. I think this document will be more perfect, and it will better meet the demands of time and better protect the employer. Trade unions and employers are also working on these issues. I hope that the Supreme Council, once it has received it, will also add its vision. And we're going to get a law that will fully meet the needs of time and the protection of workers in this kind of business, in wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u127	Thank you, Ivan Jacobovich. Time's up. The word for the report has the head of the Subcommittee on Social Policy and the work of Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u128	I'd like to answer the honorary colleague Mishuri first. I'm asking you not to twist my speech. I didn't say before that that I approve of what the President and the government are doing. I just said that the president made a change. And the next. There is no special contract between the unions and the government, and there is a general agreement where very harsh positions have been put up by the unions against the government. So if you don't know, come on, I'll tell you how we work. Now it's about the law. As far as law is concerned, colleagues, you and I all see when we go, for example, to Žitomirščina, to Vinčin, like on the right-hand side, well, so many toys, from animals to big dolls, we see when there are carts, pans and everything you want. True, graves are not yet exhibited that are not counted for wages. Maybe we'll get to that. So, in principle, the position of our committee and trade unions: we're against paying in kind at all. But today there is this law that allows the employer to pay in kind for a salary, more than that, to pay in kind at market price. I was twice an MP from the Winnitsk district, from the district. And the voters complained to me all the time. Sugar, the value of the market is 60 dollars, and the brothers are forced to pay 90 dollars for their wages. It's better to give this farm worker money, he'll buy some sugar. Thus, in view of the fact that the Law, which narrows down the rights of the attempt, again makes it a matter for the government to settle matters. How? It's very important. First. It is suggested that no more than 50 percent of the monthly wage will be given in kind, and now give as much as they want. And secondly, it's very principled. Giving in kind, that is to say, goods are not more of a value than they are. That is, if the value of 60 bracelets of tea or pot, or a bag of sugar, is sold to a person for 60 dollars or paid for a salary. In this way, we can at least increase our purchasing power. What is more, to limit the use of this law, which is now in force, can actually impose its conditions and make it take the goods — sugar and so forth — instead of paying the money. In this regard, the committee has considered these issues very carefully, and we have come to the point that, in principle, this law can be adopted in the first reading. Again, I stress that they pay no more than 50 percent in kind and at their own expense. But the best option is to cancel the barter that is. But for today, I've been consulting with my colleagues in Zebrovsky, with others, saying that the peasant is asking, "Give me the grain, give me the sugar, give me something else." So he's willing to accept a piece of goods and other things with money. Even if there were money, there would be no need to apologize for the goods. But in this version, I ask that this bill be supported by MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u129	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Our evening session continues for 15 minutes. If you have any questions, please sign up. Please point it on the board. Saved for speaking from places: Nightshank, Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u130	160 constituency, Glukhovsky. Please tell me, I have a question for you. You say 50 percent in your report again, but you don't use the will of the person who gets that salary. Then it should be added that at the initiative of the employer, perhaps not more than 50 percent, but if the worker is able to obtain grain, he may exercise that right. But the main question is, what is it? The project suggests that wages should be paid at prices that are not above the cost. Was it considered in your analysis on the committee that it was useless, as the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on Income Tax states that the revenue received in natural form would then be collected for others, at free market prices, which would not be for the benefit of the person who gets paid in kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u131	It's very correct for your first part of the proposal that, in fact, an employer can account for no more than 50 percent in kind, or limit it, but I agree with you that you should write "according to the consent of the person employed." So maybe you want to take 10 percent or maybe 30 percent or more? But more than 50 percent cannot be imposed on her. The second question I'm not ready to answer right now, because, really, here is the problem: the cost of production is one, and the market prices are the second. This difference between them is great. National MP Gavriluk, People's Rule Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u132	Dear colleague, I wanted to ask you a few questions. Have you ever tried being in the skin of a business manager? Do you not believe that these bills are an interference with the economic activities of economic entities? And do you not think that the policy of your committee and government in this matter should be taken in a completely different direction? Yes, it is imperative to support farmers and other producers in our country, supporting people in the first place, but in my opinion, today you are trying, you know, to address this issue through such administrative measures. Is that right?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u133	Dear colleague, I think when you went to the elections, as a candidate in the national MPs, you said, "I'll come and put it first -- it's a question of the people, it's a question of the electorate." This is the law that protects the interests of your constituents, not the skin of your business manager. I wasn't in the leader's skin, I was in the head of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine. So we don't interfere with your rights, in your functions, and we interfere with the Pay for Work Act, we make changes, and through this law we want to protect a person's work. Because what employers are doing today: giving, I say again, cars, pots or other things instead of wages is not appropriate. You see what people trade in markets, what they sell. So please, as an employer, arrange a job so that you can get a salary and buy what you want. On the contrary, we are going to meet you and allow you to pay at least 50 percent in kind. You don't want to-- let's take 100 percent of the money. Then there won't be any problems. The MPs will pass the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u134	National Deputy Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u135	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I really liked your last thesis, the speech that you said was the best thing to forbid. Now we have a huge lie about barter pay in legislation. And now we're trying to half-kill this lie. But I'll leave you half. Believe me, when it's mass, no one's going to count the cost, no one's going to count it, 50 percent or 50 percent. Our lawless people won't go to court with that company manager. And it's all going to stay as it is. So I think it should be forbidden, and it should be counted as a lie when it's not a monetary account, including in the country. And failure to pay should also be punished in criminal order. Trust me, everything's gonna be just fine. So I want us to support exactly what you said in the last sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u136	Dear colleague Assadchev, I agree with you 100%. And my position as deputy, as head of the Federation of Trades, is exactly that: you have to pay with money. But we're now looking at the proposals that the government has made and we're saying that we can look at a compromise solution here. Although I want to say today, I would like to remind you that there is a law that gives employers 100% of the total wage. Or let's really make some changes to the law, and we'll definitely cancel what I agree with. Or let's go to that decision it's halving, and it solves all the problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u137	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, for your time. Replica, please, the people's MP Mishur has a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u138	The Mishura faction of Communists. That's my plan. I think we all see how it works and how it works and how it works, the general agreement that's concluded with the government, when people don't just get wages, they don't have jobs. And that's why I'm surprised that it's the government that's passing laws that are supposed to regulate all these things, and the unions that have to worry about pay and work just confirms that the government is doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u139	Thank you. For discussion, the word is given to Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich, the faction of "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u140	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. I generally feel that this law is bad and that it cannot be adopted. In general, wages should be tariffed throughout the state and should be paid by money, that is the principle. If you look at the wages of nature, you can see two harmful trends. The first trend in agriculture is indeed often paid with grains of wages at a very low price of grain. As a result, this grain also goes to market at a low price, and so there is a distortion of prices in the market. Deformation is the price of the products that sell the population. On the other hand, on the other hand, very often wages appear to be products that are worth more than market prices. This is especially true of sugar, which has a very high price compared to international prices, and this applies to other products. It is common that different products are produced at the same company. Some products are worth less than the market price, while others are worth more than the market price of those products. And the wages are the same as the products that don't have a sale, and they have a higher price. So I think if Ivan Yakovitch insists that we should halve the previous law, where payment of wages in kind was fully allowed and now only half allowed, then I would like to see in this law that the cost of the product paid in the form of wages should be lower than the market price for this product. Then it makes sense to pay the wages with such a product. And at the end of the day, I would like to make a general comment on the pay system in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, all salaries in Ukraine are divided into two categories. One category is almost half of the nation's population gets an unpaid minimum wage, and the other half gets a salary of more than 500 grams on average. The first part of the salary is the one that's in the shadow, that's the wage paid at an untaxed minimum, that's not taking any taxes, and the second part of the salary is paid in envelopes. So I think that the normalization of wages within the state is question number one, and this law can be adopted with the only amendment if the cost of products that appear to be earnings is lower than the market price of the product in question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u141	Thank you. National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u142	Dear colleagues of the law, Your Honor Minister! First of all, I want to reassure those who were so impressed by the activity of the Blackman, this is an old colleague of mine. Don't worry, it's okay, it's age-old, it'll pass. Another problem. I want to say that those who vote in favour of this bill should be prepared to pay us half our wages under our own laws. Be ready for this, we'll take these bags home. I'm convinced that this law, in all its so-called humanitarian envelope, is something else, we're kind of going from foot to foot -- well, it's hard, let them pay anyway. Here I was talking to Santa Melnik, an agrarian who says they won't pay for anything. This law is very deceitful. I'm sure we don't have the right to accept it. Let's not forget, there's a lot of unemployment in the country today. And the person they're going to take to work is ready for anything and ready to sign any one of them at all is the top of that pay-per-view product that's being produced in my own backyard on Winnitzkin. They paid the peasants a piece of shit. Because of this, I am absolutely convinced that we should not allow this law in any way. We understand how much abuse there is in all of this. The main equivalent, the main blood of the economy in every country, whether poor or medium or rich, is the money equivalent, and it must, only it can raise our economy! I'm just asking the people's deputies in the basement on Thursday we just have no right to vote in favour of this law! He will bring great harm to our society! Who, for example, wants to make a covenant or rent land, does it need to be a law? He can make a deal to make a deal that he'll get paid there, or oil, or poppy, or manure there and so forth. I am convinced that to enact this law, to legitimize this situation that rejects our economy, rejects Ukraine back, we simply have no right with you! I thank you, and I believe you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u143	National MP, Mother, Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u144	You know, it's very good to think about laws if you write them, accept them, not personally execute them. Here the two deputies of the past have come and said, "To dry the hands of the one who will not sign this law." Dear friends, what have you adopted in these callings such laws that this salary cannot be paid? Where you've seen that we have our first payment at this time, and because of your laws, it's the last payment. You once tried to pay off a group of a few thousand men's wages? Do you know why natural payments go? This is sometimes the only way to pay off, because if the money you get is at the company, they won't get to the employee, dozens of paragraphs will force the bank to remove that money. Hence, this law that a violation, if any, is not even a pity that it should be accepted. But he's not going to answer the question. It'll solve the question, first of all, that pay should be the first payment in the country. It's the law for everyone. And second of all. There can be no discussion of what the manager or someone is to do if the state’s debt to the law is three times greater than its debt to pay. We've gathered all the enterprises in Kiev. What do you think? At the tenth performance last year, the performances were stopped. Of the ten nations, three times as guilty as this enterprise was for their people. So what's his fault? It's not my fault to protect those guilty. But let's think about how to create the conditions under which this salary could be paid. That's the first one, pay first. Ah, the others. To see what taxes on this salary are available, and can this be sustained in today’s situation? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u145	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Question completed. We'll vote on Thursday. Minister Sakhahn insists on a reprimand. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u146	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's literally short. Dear National Deputies! With regard to Igor Raphaelovich Yukhnowsky's speech, it seems to me that the addition he has made may just be a complement to the second question and, in my opinion, it will simply strengthen this law. With regard to Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski's speech, I have deep respect for his reasoning, and I understand perfectly, but Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, if we don't adopt this law, will remain 100 percent. So we're going to have a complete operation and a pattern that works today. 100 percent is just going to get the grain twice as expensive and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m1.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to emphasize once again that the discussion is over. The decision will take place on Thursday. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Questions will be considered according to the schedule of our work.
