ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:02:53]] Registered -429 There are 429 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies of Ukraine, John Mikhailovich, who was 65 years old. Let's welcome him and wish for everyone. [[Applause]] And Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich. Let's welcome Vasil Antonovich. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules today, we have a day of adoption by the Supreme Council of Decisions. Let's go over the procedure. Five minutes off procedure, please. Light up on the board, please. Mikhailo Alexiyovich Potemysko, Group of Democratic Initiatives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! In the committee assignment project, my family is on the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence. For moral reasons, I'm asking you to withdraw your candidacy, as long as I don't give my consent to this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u3	Yes, Igor Ostash.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the violation of the Supreme Council's main document of the Constitutional Rules under article 6.2. 12. Bills rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in fact, or by those who repeat them in substance, cannot be submitted to the same or the next consecutive session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is why I would like to point out that we cannot today, under the Rules, deal with the issue of the removal from office of the National Bank of Ukraine of Mr. Stelmach, so we seriously demand that this issue be removed from consideration. And I would also like to point out that today there are government members, city heads, heads of district administrations assigned to this office, but unfortunately there are no MPs. Therefore, we today demand that we first consider the question of putting them under parliamentary authority and then consider the issues that are scheduled for the day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, fine. I would like to thank National Deputy Igor Ostas for reminding me that there are government members present today. Let us welcome the newly elected government. Because today we need to consider the bills related to our 2003 budget. I think it's a normal thing to remove the powers of the national MPs who have moved into the executive branch. I think there's a proper procedure, and once the relevant documents are submitted, we'll be able to determine. Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u6	Ukrainian Republican Party, Lukyanenko Please pass the word to Matthew Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u7	Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u8	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Vladimir Mikhailovich and Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question: Please tell us what happened when we break the Rules when no new circumstances have arisen, and today we have a day-to-day question about the Head of the National Bank. The Supreme Council has already expressed its position on the appointment of the President. There are no new circumstances. Please tell us who is interested today in destroying everything else in Ukraine and the only system that is capable of reacting in any way today. That's the first one. The other one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask the Committee to give them a word on the Rules in order to explain whether these are all regulatory rules or whether we are in violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u9	I'm telling you right now, Anatoly Sergiyovich, we're not breaking up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u10	Honourable deputies, disrepute! Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are still studying the Rules when you enter such a crowded hall. I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u11	National Deputy Sas, please. I can't hear you. Step out of procedure, please, and then we'll be clear. Come on, please. How long do you need? Come on, please. A regular national MP, Sass, is speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvina Vladimir Mikhajlović of 9.12.2002, the Committee on Rules at its meeting of 11.12.2002, reviewed the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Vladimir Stelmah from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine, reintroduced by the President of Ukraine on 09.12.2002, registration number 2450, and we report on the following. On 28 November of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was reviewed by the President of Ukraine on 25 November of this year, a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Vladimir Stelmah from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine. And according to the results of the vote, the specified draft decree did not receive the required number of votes in favour. In line with part 5 of article 3.2. 1 A draft legislative act that did not receive the required majority of votes in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considered rejected. Article 6.2. The 12th, referred to by a colleague of Ostrash, the Supreme Council’s Rules, provides that the Supreme Council’s legislative proposal or bill, or those who repeat it in substance, cannot be submitted to the same or the next or subsequent session of the Supreme Council of this appointment. Thus, based on the above, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Vladimir Stelma from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine, reinstated by the President of Ukraine on 09.12.2002, cannot be considered at the same session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. If, contrary to the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a review of the above-mentioned draft regulation is to be repeated in plenary session today without the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, it is necessary to take into account that, in accordance with part two of article 3.1.1 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, decisions of the Supreme Council, apart from procedural decisions, are to be taken only on the basis of questions put into the agenda of the day meeting of the Supreme Council, except in cases established by the Rules. In the event of a violation of this requirement, the decision taken is invalid.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u14	It should be noted that the current Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provide for a general procedure for organizing the consideration of the matter and do not contain any other procedure for the consideration of personnel matters. [[Article 3.4.1]] on the release by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of officials appointed and released by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u15	Thank you. All right, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u16	The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take into account the committee’s proposal to comply with the requirements of articles 3.1.1, 3.2.1, 3.4.1, 6.2.12 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules when considering the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u17	Dear National Deputies, you have heard an explanation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm just going to make one comment that I didn't give any orders to the Standing Committee on this subject. Please have a seat. Have a seat, please. Turn off the microphone. Dear national deputies, the time spent on procedural matters is exhausted. Anything, please. Have a seat, there's an assignment. Okay, okay. What do you want? Has he spoken yet, what else do you want? Please, a line to your attention. Calm down, please. Well, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u18	In accordance with the Rules, honourable national MPs may consider any matter that is in accordance with the Rules. But in this case, the commission of the Head of the Supreme Council of the Committee was. It sounds like, "S. Buryak, heads of committees, factions and groups.".. Please make a proposal to consider the draft order in the order set out. This is about decrees 2450. The committee voted, as I announced, and the committee voted unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, please. Well, there's been a regulatory committee. The position of the Regulatory Committee is known. Let's move on, please. What else is needed? Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Sit down and then we'll announce it. Sit down. Delete whom? Ladies and gentlemen, there are two draft decisions on this matter. Just a minute. Dear national deputies, there are two. Well, you can give me a chance to say it or not. I say again, there are two draft decrees. Dear colleagues, come on. Ladies and gentlemen, I will announce, and then you will continue to speak. Well, you can calm down. I speak specifically for Sobolev. There is a draft decree made by the People's Deputy Yushchenko, Moroz and Timoshenko on the inadmissibility of this decision. Yes. Dear colleagues, this is the draft decree. Dear colleagues! There's a second draft of the decree. Two. We will be the first to put to the vote the inadmissibility of the procedure. Right? And we'll put yours if we have to. Dear National Deputies! At the invitation of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, a break of up to 10 hours is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Let's make a deal, we've just met with faction leaders, we've arranged to start with that we're all going to sit down, and then we're all going to sit down. No, one minute. Dear colleagues! No, you listen. And if it does. Dear colleagues! If necessary, I'll say, "Come to the rostrum." No question, I'll call you all. Please, let's sit down and you should come. It's only a matter of one minute. I'll tell you about the decision. Dear colleagues! That's how they talked and got to. Dear colleagues! And we came to the conclusion that this question had come to pass. Dear colleagues! The question is not so much in the right field right now, since it has become political. There is, as Victor Andriyovich Yushchenko said, a conflict of interest. So let's not have this conflict of interest in us, so that we can work civilizedly, I'm asking you, let's sit down and so on. One minute, dear colleagues, we agreed this way and this is a proposition by Stelmach Vladimir Seminovich that he wants to speak up and say his position. He'll tell you what he thinks, dear colleagues. Not written from the rostrum. I won't. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, please! We agreed if you did. Dear colleagues, if you don't listen to me. If you do not listen to your faction leaders, you may not sit in your seats, but we have arranged that you all sit in your seats. Please. Dear colleagues! I informed you about what happened during this break. Now there's one proposal that you can't give up either. In accordance with the Rules, please announce a recess for consultations. Factions: People's Democratic, Industrialists. The break is announced by 11 o’clock for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u21	Dear National Deputies! Happened during another break. Well, I'm asking you to be there. Don't push me. I'm buying a republic. There have been constructive but ineffective negotiations. The position of the sides is constant. At the same time, Vladimir Semenović Stelmach wrote a statement. A statement of that meaning, I can give you this statement: "Please release me from the position of head of the National Bank.".. Wait! I'll tell you what. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, He wrote the right statement, and it's being considered there now. In this regard, I think we need to consider the matter temporarily. And now with everyone calming down so that we can start working properly from 12.30, I'd like to ask, honourable colleagues, to take a break until 12.30, and then work hard, productively and madly on all the lists of documents that need to be considered. Yes, no objection to such an offer? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. When you're ready to work, you will. Dear colleagues, are you ready to continue or not? Dear colleagues, I've informed you, I can read you one more letter. Dear colleagues, it's not up to me. There's a President's application. According to article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I repeat my proposal to release Stelmach Vladimir Semenović from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine in connection with his application. In this regard, I am voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] ..you can talk. Ladies and gentlemen, can you hear me or not? I'll bet on it. We need to give the command to the phones. microphones. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you all calm down. You can't? Since I am here under close support and cannot continue my work, I announce a break of up to 13 hours for 10 minutes. Faction leaders, please gather with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please. Yuri Anatolyevich, you speak every day. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue our work. We had a discussion with the faction leaders. There's practically two positions. We can't find a common solution to these two positions. Then you have to be in the session room, accepted. Well, one minute, please. Dear colleagues, I would advise you to open up the book once and read it, you haven't looked at it. You must have forgotten the letters. I'm telling you again. You have to read something first, then say something, teach others. I'm telling you, remember the letters, the alphabet. Dear colleagues, two positions have come together. First. This is an appropriate submission and is an appropriate draft decision. The second position proposed by the leaders of the four factions is to defer consideration of the matter. Dear colleagues, we are faction leaders. I'll tell you again in English if you don't. Learn to listen. I'm telling you again, the offer sounded like a delay, the date wasn't exactly called, and then we'll figure it out. I'm telling you again, as the faction leaders have said, it's impossible to find a common solution. I'd like, my fellow officers, not to be in the victory-winning session hall. One more time, calm down. Calm down. When we spoke, all the faction leaders came to me that I was acting strictly in line with the Rules. That's two positions. Dear colleagues, these virgin positions will be put to the vote and voted. All of it. Oh, come on, what are you yelling at? Take your seats, we'll discuss the procedure. I'm coming out of the fact that we made a decision by the Supreme Council, and that's to be a legal decision. Do you understand? What Is Untouched? Dear colleagues! We'll have to sit down and then we'll have to talk. Take your seats, please. I can't see. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. Then vote on what decision will be supported, then on what decision. Dear colleagues! Let's keep going. Dear colleagues! Because there are two suggestions. Before we put these motions to the vote. But listen to it to the end. Obviously, there is an insistence on motives. Sign up for your motives, now. Five minutes. Yes, please light up on the board. It's a motive. Melnikov, People's Choice Group, please. Dear colleagues! Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u24	Dear Chairman! Deputies! Today, our own Ukraine will be disgraced by all the white light. We're gonna ruin the whole white light! I therefore propose to put to the vote, as is done in the entire civilized world, two views and a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies! I call attention to the Secretariat once again, and I'm just paying attention to the Turkinov People's Deputy. You just don't have to act like a man out of the street. And we agreed that we're doing it on a motivational basis. And behave yourself! Please turn on the microphone of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! I draw your attention to the fact that the matter is put into the agenda and the vote can now be asked about. Transfer. If it doesn't get the right number of votes, we have to consider the matter essentially. [[B in m in a l i. C in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m in a m ……]] In accordance with the Rules, the work is being done. And I remind you that you are in violation of the Rules. It's rough, it's harmless, it's cynical.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u27	People's MP Ivan Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u28	Ivy, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u29	Listen to the wise word!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u30	I don't know when Karpov put this in the agenda. I did not include or vote on such a question. Maybe most of them included it's a different matter. That's the first one. The other one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have foreseen, and in all countries, there is a so-called regulatory committee in parliament. When there's a situation in the hall, we don't all have to sit here this afternoon, there's a regular profiling committee, you give him a mandate now, let him look at the situation and then give him information, we'll discuss this information and we'll make a decision. Let's put it in the agenda -- let's look, let's not include -- let's wait until we turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u31	I, my distinguished colleagues, Mr. Ivane Stepanovich, am informing all the national MPs that on Monday at the Conciliation Council I have informed the national deputies of the appointment of the President. And you, Ivan Stepanovich, I think you will support me in that this is a matter of personnel and there were no objections from the national MPs. I'm for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this is not the issue today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u32	Three and a half billion questions today!Oh, my God! Three and a half billion!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u33	And the question is, Your Honor. Please don't yell. What are you yelling at? And the question is that there is another proposal made by the people's deputies that concerns the redistribution of committees. This is also related to such problems. So, honourable national MPs, come on. The procedure is over. Kravchenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u34	Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, and above all, I would like to address our voters so that the voters of Ukraine will know what is happening in the walls of Parliament. First. You must know that political bargaining is ending in posts, which means the fates of the people of Ukraine. The position of President, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, has also been included in this political transfer for the interests of certain mafia clans. Stelmacha's candidacy and his release arose because it was Stelma, for whom we, the Communists, did not vote, but I confirm that for us now we are above the principles and national interests, we are up against an affair, a three-and-a-half-billion-dollar money affair through the Gaz Ukrainian trade house. This is where the interests came together when Stemach, as a professional, gave up the affair in the interest of a particular clan. And the so-called majority is now going to serve with the blood of the people the interests of this clan. You stop, for God's sake! We will then tell you what areas are involved and what banks are included. You do not know that yet, and we have just spoken at a meeting or meeting with the faction leaders, which must now be told to the people of Ukraine for the sake of which banks and which clans this is all done. The nomination or question of Stemach has already been considered, so we, a faction of communists, acting under conditions or under the requirements of the Rules, and we propose that consideration be given to the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-12-m0.u36	Dear national deputies, indeed, this problem. Dear colleagues, we've agreed, it's been two minutes. Well, let's stick to the rules. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! That's the question. So they're all in the same conditions. Simonenko spoke for two minutes. Well, me. Calm down. Dear National Deputies! That's the question. Calm down! This issue was discussed during a meeting of factions’ leaders. We agreed to form and send a request. We'll have to, let's create an investigation commission. That's it. Dear colleagues, I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Break till 4:00.
