ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please take your jobs and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:02:40]] Registered -363 363 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council today, the next day of the government of Ukraine. Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, representatives of ministries and offices whose activities relate to the topic of government day. Dear people. What, dear colleagues, is the procedure? So by procedure, or what are the questions? From the procedure? Pavlovsky’s national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u2	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I ask that I be given two minutes to make a statement in connection with the fact that on Friday the dignity of me as a national deputy, is being compromised by the Supreme Council. So I'm asking you to give me two minutes to apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, I request your attention. According to the U.S. Government Day, this is the day that Government Day takes place, we don't listen to statements, we don't ask questions, that's all. If there's a procedure, I'm willing to give my word. Please, National Deputy Boki of the Procedural. Mikhailo Anatoliyovich, if you insist, use the procedure for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I will speak with procedure, but with special procedure. I want to take advantage of the presence here of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the members of the Government of Ukraine, as well as the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, and draw their attention to the barbarism that is taking place over the leader of our faction, the leader of the Socialist Party and his sick wife. As you know, two weeks ago he was shut off from his house at the End of Sleep, shut down literally all-gas, light, heat, water. All of it! That is, man was thrown into his original existence. All of this is viewed as political revenge. And you know very well that Alexander Alexandrovich's wife, she's bedridden, and she's already on the run, and so on. Do you understand what we're leading the country to?Oh, my God! When, excuse me, our President doesn't like any of the political opponents, they want him tired and they want to kill even members of his family. His wife, by the way, the disabled first group, that's what everyone knows. I address Anatoly Kirilovich Kinaha. Please take all measures to stop this barbarism that is being done with the famous Kuchma family. If this isn't done, we're going to start nursing and giving to the President, and we're going to start prying and giving to the government because, Anatoly Kirilovich, if this is how we deal with the political opposition, we're already at the extreme. This savagery must be put to an end.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll give you some information: yesterday, not just yesterday, Valentina Petrovna Semenyuk and I were working on this issue. Yesterday, there's going to be funding for repairs, and we're going to be on the side of the Supreme Council's affairs, and we're going to be doing control, and supporting the government to get the repairs there quickly to include heat, light, water and gas. Michael Antonovich Pavlovski, just from the procedure, please. One minute out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw attention to how the dignity and dignity of the people's deputies are ensured. On November 10th of this year, the Epicenter broadcast on channel "1+1" by Viacheslav Pekhoshik said the following, and I quote, "BUT, in my opinion, is actually self-sustaining from parliamentary work. But Alexander Turchinov’s words, in fact, mean that there is probably some basis for strengthening the suspicion that many people in Kiev have a plan that adds to the Ukrainian - American crisis of trust. By the way, it is not excluded that next week some of the opposition will have problems along the lines of the Attorney General’s Office. My sources there point directly to a logical connection that somehow unites the masters of Paul’s and Onopenek with some bribes. It is said that half a million for the seeming support of Basil Onopenek's candidacy for the presidency of the Supreme Court." From these words, I and the other TV viewers have clearly understood that I am the national deputy of the Ukraine of Pavlovsky, since there is no other Pavlovsky in the BUT Block. In my oral address to Vice-Prosecutor-General Victor Viktorovich Kudriavtsev, who has a link in the individual media, he told me that the Henprosecutor's Office is neither working nor carrying out any verification of information. That's why I want to inform my voters and all the television viewers who watched Epicenter on November 10th on channel 1+1. And we need to find out who and why we need to discredit the National Deputies and the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the procedural ones are exhausted. Dear colleagues, we have a government day today. Please, Karmazin, Tuck and all, we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity" Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Today, there is an extremely important question: The progress of the reform of the Armed Forces and what remains of the Armed Forces, where Ukraine is. And even so today we're not given the materials that came in, the answers, the English-American or the American-U.S. checks together. All the media says, "I didn't read it, but I condemn it." How can Parliament today address this issue without having written information on the matter? Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have commented on this issue on television. I would like each of the national deputies to have this information. I'm asking you to provide us with it by the end of the session today, it has a direct bearing on the security of the state, on each of us, the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u9	Thank you. I will ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide such information to a special commission of inquiry. Everything else is information that was processed by the appropriate commission, a group of experts from the United States of America, and it's written for whom this information is intended. It does not say that it is for the national MPs. For a commission of inquiry, I think we need to give it to you. We invite you to give us that opportunity. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I refer to you as the Head of the Supreme Council, to whom the time will also come -- and you will either be retired or retired, or you will be honestly retired, or perhaps a coup as in my time. But I want to support Boki for this barbaric approach to the Frost family. How can a normal state deal with the family of the Supreme Council’s Head, who has worked and worked honestly today? Is it possible for someone who knows everyone there in the Regulations to commit such iniquities? Doesn't the President understand that? Volodymyr Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u11	I try to listen carefully. Stanislav Ivanovich, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u12	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to speak with the President yourself, to remove this Spanish for which I am not directly ashamed to say such a word from the rostrum: Dagayeva, Tachakuka and everyone else, and to give order. But look how many sanatoriums you have taken, how many houses have you built. The head of the Supreme Council, who worked for four years, has been working in parliament for 10 years, and that's how his family gets bullied. Can we allow that to happen in Ukraine? Can we deal with our workmate’s family? So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm just asking you as a human being, if you understand that, please do. And I think before today's discussion of the issues that have been brought to the table in the Cabinet of Ministers, please inform us to the extent possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u13	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I'm dividing your position by 100 percent. I had a special appointment with the President last night. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to make a pleasant announcement. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Fedorovich Spak. Let us greet him, wish him health, all manner of things. Dear national MPs, government representatives, invited guests. According to our approved plan today, the reform of the Armed Forces and the implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of the requirements of effective legislation for the social protection of military personnel and their families, the state of retirement, medical, housing, transportation of military and veterans. The severity of these problems is well - known. The Supreme Council considered them at parliamentary hearings in June 1999. Since then, the Constitution has approved the basic laws of military construction, the statutes of the Armed Forces, the legislatively regulated issues of the legal regime of property and economic activity, the order of deployment of units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to other States, and the order of admission and conditions for the presence of forces of other States in Ukraine. Many other legal acts have been adopted. I mean, we have a regulatory framework, a necessary regulatory framework that ensures the viability of the Armed Forces under new political and socio-economic conditions. Some steps can also be taken to improve the social protection of military veterans. Why, in particular, the adoption of amendments to the law on the status of military veterans and their social protection contributed. These include the expansion of the ranks of individuals who are referred to military veterans. On July 4, this year, the Supreme Council amended the law on the pension provision of military personnel and members of the primary and regular staff of the internal affairs bodies. There is an increase from January 1st of the following year from 85 to 90 percent of the maximum pension for senior military personnel and members of the primary and regular staff of the internal affairs bodies, as well as for those who participated in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. Regrettably, the parliamentary recommendations approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine remain in many ways unfulfilled. In addition, the social protection system of military and veterans was seriously violated in previous years. This has greatly exacerbated the already tense socio-psychological atmosphere in the military and the families of military personnel has caused massive, I stress, massive discharges from the ranks of the Armed Forces of officers. Serious adjustments are needed for the reform and development of the Armed Forces, for other parts of the state’s military organization, and for the entire force. During the days, there was a meeting of the College of the Ministry of Defence with the participation of the President of Ukraine, members of the government and representatives of parliament. At least one third of all appeals to the Supreme Council are made by military personnel, veterans, and their organizations, the leaders of local authorities that require decisive, meaningful, and consistent action in this area. Today, we need to take a comprehensive and objective look at the whole range of problems related to army reform and the social protection of its personnel. This is expected from the State, from the power itself the defenders of the country, the Ukrainian people, for whom the army is a bloodless child, flesh from the flesh, and with which the lives and fate of millions of our fellow countrymen are somehow related. The outcome of today’s discussion will need to be strengthened by the decisions that are to be approved by the Supreme Council and accepted to the unfailing execution of all those involved. It is proposed that, according to existing practice, this is the order of today’s Government Day. Reporters will be given 15 minutes to report and one branch to answer written and oral questions. I've got a caller from the profile committee to give you 15 minutes, the rest of the time to go to the debate. At 13 p.m., 40 minutes to summarize the day of the government of Ukraine and invite the prime minister of Ukraine to speak. Is there no objection to such a rule? Let's move on to the question. I suggest we do our work without interruption at 12 o'clock. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine reports on the progress of the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. He will report and answer questions from the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Vladimir Petrovich Škidchenko. Please, Vladimir Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u14	Dear Head! Honourable National Deputies and Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the Supreme Council for the opportunity to highlight the issue of the current state of the Armed Forces and to learn about their reform and development problems. The most important laws of the legislative base, as stated by the Head of the Supreme Council, should include the laws "On the Defence of Ukraine", "On the Armed Forces of Ukraine", "On the Military Order of the Armed Forces of Ukraine." It was the persistence of the national MPs that made it possible at the legislative level to determine the financing of defence needs at least 3 percent of gross domestic product. The instructions of the President of Ukraine on the State Programme for the Reform and Development of the Armed Forces until 2005 and on the Concept of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Model 2010 define the directions and ways of further reforming the Armed Forces. By decree of the 2002 Cabinet of Ministers, 507, the estimated expenditure from the General Fund of the State Budget for Defence needs is set at 507. With the active support of the People’s Deputies by the Cabinet of Ministers, the second year in a row, the government budget provides for targeted funding for the State’s programme for the construction and development of the Armed Forces. I would especially like to note close and fruitful cooperation with the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence. Dear National Deputies! The main efforts of the Ministry of Defence in 2000-2002 focused on the progressive creation of effective Armed Forces through a comprehensive solution to the next, most important tasks. This is especially true of the improvement of the leadership system of the Armed Forces. Its main objective is to create a rational system of military administrations with a clear definition of functions and powers, and to improve the effectiveness of their work. Under the Ukrainian President's announced administrative reform, the Deputy Defence Minister's Institute has been abolished, instead of the posts of two State Secretaries, the responsibilities and tasks of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff have been clarified. All of this is enshrined in the new positions approved by the President of Ukraine on these organs. The structural reconstruction of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff's central apparatus has been initiated in order to gradually bring them to certain functions and tasks, as well as to European standards. Step - by - step steps have been taken to move to the Civil Ministry of Defence. Good conditions are being created to further strengthen democratic civilian control over the Armed Forces. Armed forces are now open to all branches of government, society, public organizations, and the media. Our meeting, by the way, is an example of this. Yet, to our deep conviction, democratic civilian control should not be limited to inspection and audit functions. Its task should also be to increase the responsibility of all public authorities for the state’s security. The current state of military construction is characterized by structural reconstruction, disposal of surplus infrastructure, arms, military technology, and property. By the end of this year, the military force will have a strength of 389,000, including 295,000 military personnel. Over the last three years, 28 authorities have cut down on parts of the supply and maintenance of more than 5,300 people, and some 3,000 units of military equipment have been removed from the fighting force. On September 1st of this year, the 43rd missile army was completed. The issue of the gradual transition to the three-species structure of the Armed Forces by 2005 has been resolved. The Ministry of Defense has completed its proposals for larger-scale transformations that are presented on the screen. It is quite obvious that after considering our proposals at the National Security and Defence Council meeting and their approval by the President of Ukraine, there will be a need for changes in the relevant laws, so according to the current legislation, the total number of Armed Forces for 2005 is 375,000, that is, 50,000 more than we are proposing. We are expected to reduce the minimum need to maintain the Armed Forces in 2004 by 254 million dollars. This will allow us to phase out by 2010, subject to the financing of the Armed Forces, according to the established projections, to bring the budget distribution of the Ministry of Defence to global proportions, namely: maintenance of a special warehouse -- 50 percent, carrying out research and research, modernization, procurement of weapons and military technology -- 25 percent, military training and its material and technical security -- 25 percent. Honorable National MPs. Often, from various sources, the Ministry of Defence is accused of refusing to implement reforms in the Armed Forces, substantially reducing their numbers. It's not true. Because we're set in such a framework that we just can't go beyond what we want. To understand this, let me give you a few figures. Yes, the normative need to reform the Armed Forces this year, with the total elimination of military structures and the implementation of all valid laws and regulations, amounts to over 1.4 billion dollars. The State budget for the reform process for this year is limited to 40 million 180,000. Of this amount, only 24 million, nearly 61 percent, have been funded to date. It's about the same thing in 2003-2005. At the same time, the General Fund budget for the following year provides only 60 million dollars. I hope you feel the difference. We are well aware that the economic capabilities of the State do not allow the normative needs of the Armed Forces to be met. But we're also counting on understanding the conditions under which the Ministry of Defense is located. Let me give you another example. Yes, the annual regulatory requirement to maintain a mechanized brigade is about 32 million dollars. It is currently funded at 16 million dollars. The need for the complete decomposition of the mechanized brigade is about 45 million dollars. Thus, maintaining a typical structure over a year costs about one and a half times less than the total elimination. The task of creating new functional components of the Armed Forces is gradually being accomplished. In doing so, priority is given to the advanced defence forces as a foregleam of the future armed forces. So far, an air force operational task force and a squadron of various naval forces have been formed. The building of a rapid response hull in the land’s troops continues. As a result of targeted funding, the resilience of advanced defence forces is gradually increasing. By the way, this year ends the first stage of their creation, at the end of which they should prepare for the tasks of 10 battalions of divisions, 7 airlines and about 20 other units. At the same time, the task of gradually increasing the resilience of advanced defence forces has not been fully carried out. This is primarily the case with the promotion of the air school of designated departments. Thus, the average flight on one pilot this year was only up to 14 hours instead of the planned 90. Of course, these figures have been affected by a lack of funding for the purchase of fuel to ensure full preparation. I would like to express my gratitude to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for deciding on the additional allocation of aviation gas to ensure the preparation of the Air Force. The issue of weapons and military equipment remains a major concern of the Armed Forces. Because of the impossibility of repairing them at the right time, modernizing them, and purchasing new samples, their resilience is steadily declining. Today, the vast majority of technically complex weapons and weapons systems have almost exhausted their resources of exploitation. So without immediate action, we can be out of combat technology in three or five years and we may be facing a problem of mass re-arms of the Armed Forces, which is already tens of billions of dollars. We have a certain expectation of improving the effectiveness of military technology, and we are relying on a national programme for the development of weapons and military technology, which has been practically completed. We are also concerned about the problem of the implementation of surplus assets and military technology. In fact, high prices do not allow it to be implemented in the internal market of the State. With each year, the technology’s resources are declining, and interest in its acquisition is also decreasing. As a result, technology becomes an additional burden on the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Large amounts of resources distract weapons and military equipment that need to be disposed of. In doing so, the security, the supply of arms and military equipment to enterprises, as well as the disposal are carried out by force and at the expense of the Ministry of Defense's working costs. No specific funding is available for the target. There's no better funding for the rear of the Armed Forces. Yes, the average amount of fuel-oil supplies was 10 to 14 percent of the minimum requirement. Food -- 60-70, property -- 23, for military transport -- 31.5 percent. A critical situation has been the provision of unmovable rear - service supplies. The problem for us is the liberation of 170 military towns, which for various reasons we cannot transfer to local municipal property. Each year, more than 30 million dollars are needed to keep them. The same is true of military airports. Of course, without the help of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence will not solve this problem on its own. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The subject of particular concern, concern for us is the issue of military and social orientation, the delay in the process of reforming the Armed Forces does not contribute to the planned redeployment of military personnel to new duty stations. Uncertainty in tomorrow’s day, the lack of further military prospects leads to an apathetic attitude toward performance, causing general dissatisfaction with military service. By failing to do so, a large number of skilled and highly qualified officers are released from the ranks of the Armed Forces for the time being. In response to the threat of deprivation of benefits, only about 2,000 officers have submitted relief reports during the last three months. Under such conditions, we may lose the foundation of the Armed Forces Corps. The level of housing needs to be taken into account in the area of social problems that have a major impact on the moral condition of the individual. By now the total number of homeless in the Armed Forces is about 50,000. Because of bureaucratic obstacles, often the operation of valid legal acts remains powerless. An example of this is the implementation by Kabmin of an investment quota of 269.4 million dollars. As a result of the tax inspection, only 102 million dollars — 38 percent — were involved in the cancellation of the aid granted to investors on 1 September of this year. The problem is that the government’s reform and development programme for the next year has a budget of 431.6 million dollars. In principle, at least that money is enough to accomplish what is planned. The negative is that from this amount, 371 million is a special fund, so we still have to make that money. There is a need to reduce the scope of the special fund and to finance the Armed Forces since 2004 exclusively at the expense of the General Fund. We look forward to understanding from the government and the Supreme Council. In this function, a special fund will provide the Ministry of Defense with funds to respond quickly to the priority and out-of-plan problems. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In the absence of time, all aspects of the activities of the Armed Forces cannot be highlighted. I would like to emphasize that the process of reforming the Armed Forces is being carried out in a planned manner. Under full funding, the Armed Forces, within the government’s projected targets, will implement their plans and will be in line with current challenges and threats in 2010. The problems I have violated in my speech can be solved with the support of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the government and the Ukrainian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, the report is closed, please ask questions. Let's do it this way: one question in writing, the next one directly from the National MP. Please, do we have a letter? Let's start with a letter. And I'd like you to sign up to ask questions. Please. On the board, please. Yes, please, in writing, and then from the national deputy of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I have 67 written questions. In harmony with the first question identified by the Head. "Does the government address the problem of the Armed Forces in the context of reforming the state's military organization, reviewing its structure, bringing together parallel structures, a radical reduction in numbers, which is increasingly taking on the signs of a police state?".. Dear comrades, a state commission has been set up in the government today under the chairmanship of the First Deputy Prime Minister to prepare proposals for reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces, as well as other armed formations. That is, a positive answer to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u17	National MP Matvienko, European Choice Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u18	National MP, Matvienko, 66 constituency. Please give the floor to the National MP Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u19	The National MP of Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u20	Samofalov, European Choice Group. So, Mr. Vadim Petrovich, in the Supreme Council of the Second Council, I was responsible for budgetary allocation of military structures. In fact, I was convinced that it was extremely insufficient to allocate always to the needs of the Armed Forces, but when they came to protect the budget of the Armed Forces, it was always a general issue. Here's the total, not enough. The total amount is not enough. Today, I have seen the 2003 budget, a little bit of the budget. Do you think there's any point in detailing the budget? Counting it from every particular regiment? Then everyone will understand that the situation is truly tragic. And perhaps, you think, there is a point to the budget of the Armed Forces to consider at a closed meeting of the Supreme Council, to be frank, to be understood by everyone, why it is necessary, for what it is necessary and what it will be if it does not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor Hennaday Grigoryovich. Well, I don't have to judge how extensive the State Budget should be. I think it's more appropriate when we talk about committees that are appropriate for the Ministry of Defense to present complete decryption and make a case for it. With regard to the consideration of security issues and the state of the Armed Forces in a closed session, I believe that there is such a need, but on a very limited circle of issues. We are now at a level of considerable openness before the law on strengthening civil control. I believe that the main tasks should be the domain of the whole society.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u22	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u23	Let me ask you a fresh written question, just asked by Solomon Yuri Petrovich. "The analysis note in the last paragraph refers to the full-scale training of Forpost-2002, which examined the status of the United Rapid Response Force. Please explain what is specifically meant by united forces — rapid response, crisis situations? With regard to rapid response forces, they are designed for two, largely two reasons. The first is changes in the nature of modern military conflicts that do not require large-scale frontal operations and the full involvement of the Armed Forces of States. The second reason is she's forced to. To date, the economy of our nation has prevented 100 percent of the Armed Forces from being fully equipped and organized for combat training by 100 percent. So we focus our efforts on the best defenses. Why United Forces? Because we're looking at the use of parts of the constant combat readiness of the land forces, the naval forces, the air force together, under the sole command, and under the sole intent. Why the Rapid Response? In peacetime, parts of the rapid response force are maintained by 95 percent of the personnel and 100 percent of the equipment and property. Thus, the level of readiness without a reserve is several hours. That's what quick reaction is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u24	Yes, the People's Deputy of Malinovsky, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u25	Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. Your Honor, there is no doubt that reforming the Armed Forces is a major task facing you today as Secretary of Defense. But, I think, and you've got it right in your report, without the social security of the reserve officers, it's practically impossible to do that. I think it's a strange situation today where the reserve officers are divided into two categories: those officers who have been released to the reserve before 1991 are provided with apartments; those who have been released later in their own way. And this is going to happen, for example, in the Chercas region. 118 officers, these are colonel officers, lieutenant colonels, and they served on the morphlot, because they commanded nuclear submarines, they don't have housing yet. And the officers who were released in 1995 - 1996 have this residence. I think there's a way to get this ratio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u26	Dear Alexi Petrovich. I fully agree with you that the difference in the level of pensions for today is socially unfair. On this issue, the Ministry of Defence made proposals to the government. I think that this month is the first step towards eliminating injustice, increasing the pension of a category of military personnel by 10 percent. In the future, the Ministry of Defense sees itself and I think it's the government's job to eliminate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u27	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u28	I use a freshly written question. Vladimir Yavorowski. "Is the use of the Yavorov region predicted by the engulfors of environmental damage? Like them. And the second. Who knows what's going on in military forestry? Where does the forest go?" In any training with the participation of NATO countries and partners, at least 3-4 preparatory conferences are held to identify all issues of Ukraine's spending on these trainings that are harmonized and implemented. To prevent negative environmental consequences, we still have old practice of creating so - called travel commissions. They look at everything that has been done by the units and offer the command to eliminate the consequences. About what happens in military forestry, they work according to approved plans. Usually, they're in the area of the polygons. This is appropriate, in my opinion, because it provides interaction with military command.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u29	National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u30	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Volodymyr Petrovich, I agree with your thesis in the main directions of reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I've known you for a long time as an experienced expert and I can trust you. At the same time, I am interested in what measures the state must take in the person of the government, in your person as the minister of defense to provide for those military personnel and their families who are liberated as a result of the reforms carried out by the Armed Forces: employment, housing, and other domestic conditions, transfer from military towns of social objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u31	Thank you, Vasil Antonovich. First. Today, the reduction of the Armed Forces is primarily due to officers who are entitled to pension insurance. There is no situation today where a large number of young officers would be offered to be released. I thank you for the concern that is echoing in your question. With regard to employment, the government has created a special government body to deal with these issues, including the involvement of foreign organizations. As far as the transfer of infrastructure to military towns is concerned, it is one of the most serious problems that affects both the employment of the liberated and the modern existence of the Armed Forces. Unfortunately, according to the legislative base today, we can hand over towns to state administrations, but we have no right to transfer them to municipal property. When transferred to municipal property, the mechanism is extremely complex, which provides for tenders. But the town is often in such places that the tender is unsuspecting. I must say that in the previous discussion of the transfer of towns, our proposals were unfortunately not found in this room. I would urge the national MPs to return to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u32	Letters, please, questions. You had Ukraine on your cruiser.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u33	Questions from the People's Deputy Kruglov. Dear Minister, please tell me what further fate of the Ukrainian military cruiser has been built without money for three years? This is a painful question for the Armed Forces. According to the task of the Armed Forces, our assessment of the military-political situation of the cruiser does not require such rank by the naval forces, because it covers all the Black Sea without leaving the port. In fact, the crew now operates there to maintain it and keep it ready for 95 percent of the ship. To date, the most real way is to build it and sell it to interested countries. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u34	Zarubinsky National Deputy, faction of the Ukrainian People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u35	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Petrovich! It seems to me that we don't need to burn our heads off when we talk about the problem of reforming our Armed Forces. If Ukraine is able to produce a surveillance system called the Ring, which costs $6 million, and when this Ring is almost panicking those who build Stella's planes at $2 billion each, and when there's a Rings, Stella is potentially a breast of scrap metal, it's, in my opinion, one of the main real reasons, not the propaganda causes of what it's called, it's something to be proud of. I have a specific question. What in the context of the reforms of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is being done to make such effective systems as the Ring more and more effective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u36	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. In fact, Ukraine still retains a large and military-economic potential, an example of which is the Colchuga complex. We're limited in government spending on new technology, weapons. But the defined priorities that make up, first and foremost, are the systems of governance, the management of the Armed Forces on a modern basis. The other one. These are weapons on new physical principles. Third is high-precision weapons. By focusing on these directions, we can preserve both potential and strengthen the capabilities of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u37	Please, a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u38	Questions from the national deputy of Kosovo. "Will the Supreme Council be brought into consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers and approved by order of the President of Ukraine of the military reform programme?" The current State Reform and Development Programme of the Armed Forces by 2005 was developed not by the Cabinet of Ministers but by an inter-ministerial working group led by the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. It was developed according to the President's decree, so it was aimed at its approval after its completion. I've already reported on the government's commission led by the First Deputy Prime Minister, so who's going to be offered or worked by this commission, I think we're going to hear from this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u39	The Rahansky People's Deputy, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u40	Reverend Volodymyr Petrovich, about two and a half thousand military towns are held on the balance of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. I have to say that you pay a lot of attention to the arrangement of these towns, because I keep working, and I have 3 military units in the district that are very large. At the same time, according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that the structure should be transferred to the municipal property of the territorial communities. In this regard, I have a question. How does the Ministry of Defence finance the infrastructure of these towns today, and why is the Cabinet of Ministers still failing to implement its decision? It may be necessary for Kabmin to establish a time limit for the transfer of severe to municipal property of the territorial communities of military towns, with the necessary funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u41	Dear Anatoly Warfolomyovich, I have already reported that today the normative base requires a tender to be passed on to municipal property, and most towns are out of large places and are not attractive. Here I would like to ask the people's deputies to respond to the Ministry's proposal to improve the legal and regulatory framework. And if the government were to define the terms, the transfer schedules for these towns, and I wanted to expect a state programme on infrastructure, it would be in the interests of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u42	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u43	It's a written question. "What is the state of military doctrine and its characteristics today?" The draft doctrine was developed, presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, discussed at the National Security and Defence Council. Now he's with the NBO's comments back to work at the Ministry of Defense. Most of the work we did, the deadline for the surrender to the Cabin was December of this year. What are some of the characteristics of the project? First. The main external and internal military threats to Ukraine's national interests have been clarified on the basis of an analysis of military and political developments. It is proposed to legalize the creation of new functional structures in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Specific strategic objectives for the use of the Armed Forces in interaction with other military formations and positions that reflect the increasing threat posed by terrorism. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u44	Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u45	Please pass on the word of Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u46	The national deputy of Alexandrovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u47	The Communist faction, the city of Harikov, Alexandrovskaya. Vladimir Petrovic, please tell me whether the Ministry of Defence is planning to give any attention to space issues in teaching at the institutions of the Ministry of Defence and research. If so, why is this subject given so little attention at Kharkiv Military University? Why are these works transferred to other educational institutions and centres, although everyone knows that Kharkiv Military University has the most personnel that are the best professionals in the industry? Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u48	Dear Alla Alexandrovna, I agree with your assessment of the University of Kharkiv, but in reforming military education we have to clarify the profile of the institution. Kharkiv Military University, its profile is anti-aircraft defense. At the same time, we have the Institute of Life in the U.S., where we also have highly experienced professionals, and the space theme in terms of teaching, we focus on the Institute of Life in the World. As far as space orders are concerned, the NCAO program has recently been approved. There is a chapter in the interests of military service. True, it is, unfortunately, insignificant in terms of funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u49	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u50	The European Integration Committee's questions are addressed to the government: "What steps are being taken towards effective civilian control of the Armed Forces and other forces?" Well, today we're looking at and we're working on two drafts of this issue. The first to be worked by the People’s Deputies, Andreszuk. And there's a project by the Ministry of Defense. I think and hope that these bills will soon be discussed where they can be discussed more specifically. With regard to the necessity of such a law, there is no doubt in the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u51	Yes, National Deputy Sokirko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u52	National MP Sokirko, please give the floor to the National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u53	National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Mr. Minister, is it not an insult to the Ukrainian Parliament that today on 12 November, when the issue of the reform of the Armed Forces is being heard, is planned to destroy the first of the thirty-one TU-22 bombers scheduled to be destroyed on the basis of an agreement to allegedly assist Ukraine in eliminating strategic nuclear weapons and preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction signed by the United States? Shouldn't it be urgent to stop this nonsense and not stop 225 X-22 rockets that have already begun to stop? They've begun to destroy. That's the first question. The second question. Of course, we MPs have stood up and stood up for our Armed Forces, and we will not even let you destroy them in this way. And we've reached the Constitutional Court's decision on benefits, where it's written, "see the unconstitutional actions of the State Budget Act." Why isn't it being implemented now, this decision, throughout the state? I have a question to ask you today, not as a minister of defense, but as a representative of the government, because today is Government Day. So, Mr. Minister, please don't insult me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u55	Questions, please make them clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u56	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, let me do it in order. On the first question, I'm not offended, but I'm glad you asked it, because society needs an explanation, and I agree with the guilt that it's not done. The destruction of 225 X-22 missiles. These are nuclear warhead missiles. There's no warhead replacement, no warhead, you know there's no warhead. So these 225 missiles are going to be destroyed with help and at the expense of the United States. There's no offense here. As far as the 31st bomber's plans are concerned. Well, I'm satisfied with that question. Of these 31st 19 bombers are down. They're written in Santa's factory. So when they're dispossessed at American expense, what's the abuse? Others need a huge repair that we don't have any money for. If we go any further, we're going to have to maintain one TT-22 regiment of 20 aircraft in the Armed Forces structure. That's where the better planes are taken, they're providing our needs. I hope I answered the first question. As for the second question. I am grateful for this, the Armed Forces, and not me, to those national deputies who have appealed to the Constitutional Court and have received appropriate clarifications. As a member of the government when discussing the draft budget, I stood in position, standing, preserving the so-called benefits to the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u57	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u58	Questions from the National Security and Defence Committee. "Why hasn't the mobilisation plan been approved so far? Now we have a Mobplan that was approved back in 1998." Well, here I also have to answer as a member of the government, because the component of the state's mobilization plan for the Armed Forces is given in defined terms. In general, the Mobplan consists of a plan to organize state administration and ensure its functioning during a special period, a second, a mobilization plan for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations, a third, a mobilisation plan for Ukraine's agriculture, a fourth, a plan for Ukraine's civil defence for a special period. Well, honourable Members, we have a state system that changes, the economy changes, the approaches. And so making the mobilisation plan of Ukraine in these conditions is a complex process. That explains, well, at the moment, it's not approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u59	People's MP Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Petrovich. On Independence Day, when you look at the area, at the number and well - dressed generals, it is a joy. And when you go to the military and you see the army soldiers, the soul cries. Tell me, and now the point is that we have more generals in Ukraine than we have in NATO together. How much does it take to keep one general, who has several soldiers, and a soldier? That's what I'm most interested in. And the second. The president has announced that we are going to Europe, which means that the military forces should also be oriented towards European structures. How long does it take to get us there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u61	As for well - dressed generals and poorly dressed soldiers. Well, when you touched the parade, soldiers were dressed on a European level. Parade is a parade, it's a celebration of the state. But the assets of the Armed Forces are provided by about 20 percent. Last year, a decision was made in connection with the limited cost of the company’s mouth, and including the division, everyone is walking in camouflaged clothes. In fact, the armed forces today are not adequately provided with the goods. With regard to the terms of Ukraine's acceptance of NATO, it's not a simple question, and probably these terms will be clarified annually depending on the situation. Today, a plan of action for "UkraineNATO" has been developed for consideration in Prague. If he is accepted, there will be deadlines for his execution. Today I find it difficult to answer about terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u62	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u63	Since 1992, a large number of material assets have been removed from the untouched stockpiles of the Armed Forces. Why are open - minded supplies not being filled at this time? What steps are being taken by the government of Ukraine? This issue was considered by the government. A program has been developed and approved for the restoration of unmovable stocks of material assets by 2010. The decree was approved two years ago. I'll be honest with you. The program is designed, but there is no targeted funding. Armed forces have to fund these measures from their budget, and we are unable to do so today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u64	Please, Bulba Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u65	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I have two questions. Mr. Minister, first question. When will the ban on military training with tactical and tactical missiles be lifted? That's the first one. And the second. With the President of Ukraine, there is, so-called, the Coordination Council on Social and Legal Protection and so forth, headed by the unsinkable Martirosian. He's a general now, he'll catch up with you soon, obviously. Does this structure need an army, and if the army is not needed, who needs it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Stepanovich! With regard to the renewal of training with rocket launchers in Ukraine. This will be possible once existing missiles are completed and equipped with means of forced disposal. Sadly, those who are armed do not have such a system. As well as refinement of equipment that conducts telemetric surveillance. It takes about two years. At present, the Armed Forces cannot do this without launching, agreements are being negotiated with the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan regarding the conditions for launching in their territories. As for the committee you mentioned, all I can say is that it has no special influence in the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u67	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u68	Democratic Initiatives. "The ability of Ukraine's military and industrial complex to ensure Ukraine's need for modern weapons and military technology." Unfortunately, we have some contradictions here. On the one hand, the scientific and scientific potential of Ukraine is very high. On the other hand, under the terms of the Soviet Union's closed-circuit production cycles in Ukraine, about 6-8 percent. This is one of the main problems. But the President's decree approves the concept of the structural reconstruction of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex, which foresees further improvement with a view to balanced development, self-produced arms production, in line with the National Programme for the Development of Weapons and Military Technology. But the works and the results of the Rings are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u69	Baburin Alexei Vasilovich, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u70	Please pass the word "Hinsburg."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u71	Please turn on the Hinsburg microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u72	Dear Volodymyr Petrovich! Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, Communist faction, 161 constituency. I have two such questions for you. First, if you ask. Now on television, they're broadcasting the destruction of air-based missiles and these long-range bombers. They're 122-M and they're commenting that housing issues will be solved. And this gives some hope to people who come and talk to me, for example, in the district, where is that? And second of all, it's moral. People are not prepared to accept the destruction of their work, which has been invested in many people. You can't do that. I'm asking you very much. There must be some kind of misunderstanding. And the second question. My district is military, it's a military industrial complex. I have such misunderstandings. 3 percent of GDP when we join NATO will have to be counted. Then we will have to somehow destroy our perhaps industry, the war industry. I would like to ask: is it wrong that I think it will give us for the army the entry of Ukraine into NATO? What are we going to get positive from this or just negative one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u73	Thank you, Olga Petrovna. I've already answered the first question, and I'll say it again. Of course, destroying all weapons is no joy or celebration for a military man, because we are military. But as for the specific destruction of K-22 missiles, only 225 of them in the Armed Forces. These missiles are nuclear-powered, there's no warhead replacement, there's no nuclear warhead. We keep them in storage, and we have to protect them, we use people, we use electricity, and so on. So the destruction of these missiles at the expense of the United States is a plus and I have no doubt. Of the 31 bombers, I've already told you, 19 have been written off, they're not to be renewed. And that's a good thing that helps us destroy them. And the other part, well, there's a very valuable repair, and we don't need that amount. As far as spending on housing is concerned, yes, we're going to do that, but they're small, there's no expectation of a large number of apartments. Your second question is, what do we get? Well, first of all, you said that 3 percent of GDP would be counted by NATO. Well, it's not like that. The members of the Supreme Council voted on a law setting out the need for state defence to target at least 3 percent of GDP in the budget. By the way, this is about 1.3 percent in the current year. We're going to reach this indicator not before 2010. And we don't count anything in NATO, we're going to invest in our Armed Forces for Ukraine, not NATO. As far as we're concerned, what we're getting, well, today is NATO's 19 countries in Europe. In a week and a half, it'll probably be 26. Most of Europe, well, went to the Alliance, so this is the way for Ukraine to be in the European security system. With regard to the Armed Forces, participation in many studies, communication, and courses allows us to be at the level of today’s armed forces in European countries, the United States. Openness is high enough for us: we are both directing for the training of officers, and a number of programs that are very useful for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u74	Volodymyr Petrovich, please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u75	"The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. How are the questions of the gradual modernization of the existing armored equipment park to support it in a combatable state resolved? What is to be done in the next year 2003?" In recent years, both the Malishev factory and the Ministry of Defense repair companies have developed ways of modernizing BTR-60, BTR-70, armoured and surveillance vehicles BRDM-2, as well as T-64 and BMP-1 tanks. State trials of the modernized BTR-3C have begun. The state-run T-64 tank test is scheduled to begin in December of this year. That is, counterfeiting is, and implementation will depend, including, on the volume of funding in the Budget 2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u76	Manchulenko Georgiy Manoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u77	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of our Ukraine. Minister, I have a few questions for you. First. New challenges and asemitric threats have emerged in the world. In this regard, do you not feel that there is a need to raise the role of intelligence, in this case of military intelligence, and to fund it properly? Next. Raising the role of high - mobile radios It's the air force, it's the Marine Corps, it's the Special Forces and it's the creation of special operations on their base, and including the anti-terrorist and anti-diversarial forces and means. And the next question is the number of the Armed Forces. Now, very often, everyone is talking about a shortcut. But there are scientifically based standards regarding the number of people, the territory, and again, taking into account those challenges and threats, there must be a certain number of the Armed Forces. Comment on that, please. And one more question. Since 92, a large number of material means of different nomenclature have been removed from the untouched stockpiles of the Armed Forces. Why are open - minded supplies not being filled at this time? What steps are being taken by the government in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u78	Dear George Manoliyovich, on the first question, I can only agree entirely with you that in today's conflicts the role of reconnaissance aircraft, parts of the Marine Corps, all parts of it, is increasing. How does the Ministry of Defense react? Well, you're well aware of our plans and schemes, and we're planning to introduce an additional force of special operations into the rapid response force. With regard to the use of the Armed Forces in counterterrorism, there is also a need to improve the legislative base. I think when we discuss a new draft of military doctrine, that's what's going to happen. With regard to the number of the Armed Forces, however, a complex analysis of modern threats, of modern challenges on the one hand, of the economic possibilities of the State on the other, leads us to believe that accelerating the reduction of the Armed Forces. I know you know very well that 10 well-trained military personnel are better than 100 unsecured and underprepared. With regard to the replenishment of unmovable stocks, this process unfortunately makes you want a better one. In one example, when the Armed Forces are providing fuel at 20 percent of the minimum problem this year, what can we do to the operational reserve? That's not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u79	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u80	"We know that after the tragedy in Sknilov, fuel was set aside from the Derzcomreserve in turn to provide training for the fleet. Is there a government concept of harmonized proportional financing for the purchase and use of technology and services to support skills in the individual? Does the Ministry of Defence agree to discuss and perhaps align such a concept with the experts of the Supreme Council and independent experts in the future? Of course, the Minibars agree. And under the conditions of improving civilian control, it's ready to go in all directions to meet. As for such a concept, it exists, but unfortunately it exists as a wish. In the report, I said that by 2010, we would be able to make a budget structure for the Ministry of Defence: 50 percent for the maintenance of a special warehouse, 25 percent for the development and purchase of new technology and weapons, and 25 percent for military training and material and technical equipment. Only in this distribution, well, the Armed Forces will be provided with appropriate modern weapons.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u81	Cloud Stepan Ilkovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u82	Dear Mr. Minister. It is known that there is no military unit in the army that is entirely Ukrainian. This is especially true of the officer’s corps. And this is a very dangerous indicator of lack of patriotic parenting. Of course, such a state of parental patriotic labor is difficult to count on to carry out combat tasks. I'd like to ask you what do you think you're doing in terms of personnel to fundamentally change this very dangerous situation that has arisen in our Armed Forces?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u83	Thank you, Stepan Ilkovich. I agree with your concern, this is an important and principled question. But let us not completely agree that we do not have a national language. All the statutes, all the instructions, they're in national language. All orders, from the Secretary of Defense to the commander of the individual battalion, in his native language. I'm willing to give you the opportunity to visit any military part of the territory of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And you won't see Russian text on the walls and the lights and stuff. As far as I'm concerned, I see your reaction, the problem is, there's a problem in communication, the use of Russian, is, unfortunately, and in classes, it is, I'm speaking frankly. The issue was considered by a college of the Ministry of Defence a month and a half ago, and it was considered critically and severely. You said the personnel plan was predictable. The decision of the college reads in particular, "When testing an officer's warehouse, take into account the rule of the state language." During the 12th year of independence, we can no longer accept the fact that a person does not speak a language. I'm here with you as a full-fledged and solidarity college of the Ministry of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u84	Please have a written question, Vladimir Petrovich. Don't bother. Written question, Volodymyr Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u85	Allow me to respond to the impertinence. We are serving in Ukraine, we are citizens of Ukraine and without a national language we do not see existence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u86	The question is in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u87	Questions. What steps are being taken by the Ministry of Defence to continue the technical capability of missile weapons that are practically beyond what is supposed to be? This is a very pressing problem for the Armed Forces. In fact, both operational and tactical missiles and air defence missiles have exhausted 80-90 percent of their technical capability. All these weapons were created in the Soviet Union. And today, the main direction for the continuation of the resource is cooperation with the Russian Federation's design office. Because without the permission of the general designer, we don't have the right to make any kind of work and upgrade. This work is now being carried out both through the Armed Forces of the Ministry of Defence and through the direct contacts of the defence ministers of Russia and Ukraine. As I reported, within two or three years this problem will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u88	Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich, please. Is Lucenko in the hall? Please, Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u89	Buiko, Communist Party of Ukraine, Communist faction. Dear comrade general of the army! I have two questions for you. First. What is the real state of health of the young replenishment that is arriving in Ukraine’s Armed Forces, and does it satisfy the needs of Ukraine’s Armed Forces? And the second question. Since 1992, a large number of material means of various nomenclature have been removed from the untouched stockpiles of the Armed Forces. Why are open - minded supplies not being filled at this time? And what steps are being taken by the government of Ukraine in this regard? Thank you for your future response.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u90	Dear George Volodymyrovich! Regarding the health status of the conscript. In fact, every six months we find that it is getting worse. One of the reasons there's a lot of reasons, and I think they're clear, but basically the medical reason is that there's not most of the childhood vaccinations that have been done before. So now we have cases of parotit infections, pigs, as they were called, and other childhood diseases that were called. With regard to health, the link between ecologically hazardous regions and the health status of conscripts in all regions is considered. This is both the Donetsk region and the Dnipropetrovska region, and the Kyiv region. A review of the appeal this spring shows that about 12 percent of the applicants ’ health has deteriorated. This problem can only be solved by a general improvement in the economic situation of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u91	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u92	I'm sorry, I strongly ask you to repeat the second question. I've answered that twice. When the current fuel needs, uniforms, 15-20 percent technology can simply not be put into an intact reserve. Although this is, let's say, a threat to national security.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u93	Vladimir Petrovich, a very large request for a more concise answer, please. There's little time left. A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u94	"How is Ukraine's cooperation with NATO in the military assessed today?" It is well appreciated. Work has been going on since 1994. Materially, this cooperation is beneficial to the Armed Forces. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u95	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna. Please turn on the Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u96	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Petrovich! The Court of Auditors did a background check on the Ministry of Defense and your respective department in Justice in 2001. She named major misdemeanors regarding the unreasonable use of funds, the implementation of property in the form of unfinished construction, the inefficiency and the use of funds not intended. Tell me, please, as Minister, what you have done to eliminate the violations that have been noted in this regard. That's the first question. And the second. According to the law on the characteristics of the privatization of unfinished construction, 185 sites were brought into the privatization of objects under the Ministry of Defence. For two years, no list of privatized objects is included in the session room. This year alone, as many as two objects were provided. Why was such a difficult and unfulfilled law, and what has been done by you personally to enforce privatization laws, taking into account the fact that unfinished construction is being done today in the form of property? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u97	With regard to the second question, the Ministry of Defence has no experience in privatizing state-owned enterprises. Thus, two companies were offered to work on this method after permission. Regrettably, we have not received such a permit or had any experience. As for the first question, I'm sorry, I didn't hear the name of the organization you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u98	Please turn on the Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u99	The account room was checked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u100	Just the name of the organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u101	checked with the Ministry of Defence and Crossroads for the realisation of property and the implementation of objects in the Ministry of Defence’s administration and the inefficient use of funds. This material was properly directed to the Ministry and you had to respond to an appropriate observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u102	That is, it applies entirely to the Ministry of Defence, and these questions will need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u103	I certainly knew that, and I reacted. But what is Easter I don't know. After the reaction. The Chief of Housing and Construction of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lieutenant General Mishcherekov, worked at the Audit and Audit Office of the Ministry of Defence, headed by General Dragan. A number of violations have been confirmed. Materials that need to be responded to by legal authorities transferred to the prosecutor’s office have been ordered by the Defence Minister to punish officials who have allowed it. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u104	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u105	Well, some have spoken and some have spoken, so I have to list. "Deputy Democratic Initiative Group." The overall characteristics and effectiveness of social protection programmes for parents and family members who died in the peacetime of military personnel and disabled persons whose disability occurred during military service." These issues are regulated by the Ukrainian Law on Legal and Social Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. Well, I have extensive guidance on this Law, but I'd like to see another aspect of it. The Armed Forces do not understand when laws for the social protection of military personnel are passed, and then when the budget is approved, a number of laws or articles are simply rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u106	One last question. Jobist Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u107	Dear reporter! Deputies! I ask you to pay attention to the post of Commander-in-Chief. They're letting go. This means a real level of representation and a real level of interest in solving the issues of the state's defence. My question is. The housing program, housing construction, and the Ministry of Defense are now in the process of deciding to move in, buy a second-market apartment. Does this not mean that the money that has been invested in an abandoned home will in fact be frozen and the military will not receive the housing that is planned? Wouldn't it be better to build on the plans that are already in place and then start buying centralized housing?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u108	Thank you. A little clarification. The Ministry of Defense does not offer to give up construction and buy secondary housing. But there is an understanding in government. That's the direction we'd like to look at. Well, I didn't work in Goldilocks that long ago. There is a secondary dwelling, which is twice as cheap as the new housing. And rejecting such an opportunity is not appropriate. As for the need to complete everything that started before the construction, I fully agree, it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Petrovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u111	Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the requirements of current legislation by the Government of Ukraine and the measures it is taking to strengthen the social protection of military personnel and members of their families, the state of retirement, medical, housing, transportation of military pensioners and military veterans. Reported U.S. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, Oliynik Alexander Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u112	Thank you. The honourable members of the Presidency, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the distinguished members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the issue of the agenda that is being considered today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no doubt as has already been mentioned in the report and the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, are relevant not only for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, their further radical reform, the resolution of the social problems of military personnel, but also for society as a whole. Because we are all citizens of Ukraine We want to be sure that during special periods of military action and technological catastrophes, military personnel will be ready to perform professional tasks and have modern weapons and military technology and appropriate skills. On the other hand, by blessing their children for their part in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, parents want to be convinced that young people will not get involved in well - known military problems but will take over military affairs under the guidance of experienced and responsible officers. And all of them, from soldier to general, must remain under the protection of the state, having the fullness of the rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. I'm going to say, without a doubt, that the negative trends and problems in the Armed Forces have increased considerably in recent years. An example, as mentioned in the report, is the flow of personnel, the real potential for loss of human capacity, the decline in youth’s desire to serve in the Armed Forces, social concerns, and tragic events. And that's why not only in over-funded and resource-efficient military activity, but in further underfunding the social benefits and guarantees of military personnel aimed at ensuring their well-being, both during and during military service. The main and only source of military personnel is financial security because they are not allowed to receive other income by law. Objective data strongly indicates that soldiers, contract sergeants, flagposts, and even young officers on the income of one member of the family have found themselves outside the poverty line and will be able to obtain an apartment only 12 or 14 years later. Armed forces workers also have an average wage of up to 35 per cent for other military personnel who do not have the required amount of the pay fund. Therefore, with the aim of strengthening the social protection of military personnel, the increase in their financial security to the level of military personnel of other military forces of the State, which has been under the age of two years, was issued on 23 February 2002 by Presidential Decree 173 on strengthening the social protection of military personnel and members of the military and primary internal affairs bodies. This legal act has abolished the 40 per cent allowance for service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which is now paid, and the 100 per cent allowance imposed on troops of the Navy since 1 July of this year, and the entire military force of Ukraine since 1 January 2003. The implementation of this decree will allow an increase of 60 percent per month in the financial security of each military officer and, as has already been said, increase it to the level of financial security for military personnel of other military formations. Unfortunately, however, only 390 dollars are planned for the 2003 State Budget to implement the President’s decree, with a need for 630 million dollars. That's 61 percent, which really creates a problem for the President's decree. In addition, the introduction of military taxes makes the situation more difficult. This will reduce the level of financial security by an average of 15 to 20 percent. In view of the need to ensure payment of cash assistance to the current maintenance fund with an average of 1.4 to the current maintenance fund, it can now be argued that the reductions outlined by the Ukrainian Defence Minister, the number of the Armed Forces in 2003, without increasing funding, are virtually impossible. Therefore, it is necessary to initiate organizational measures to reform the Armed Forces, which are linked to the reduction of military personnel, by increasing the fund for the maintenance of military personnel and the fund for the salaries of military personnel of 200 million dollars. In another case, reform is simply impossible and will be delayed for 1 year, and in the next year, 2004, it will start with even worse conditions and will require even more financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian People's Republic, I urge you to support these necessary conditions for the implementation of the President's Order, to increase the funds and salaries of the Armed Forces in the second reading of the budget and to allow not only planning but also real reform of our army. With regard to the social protection of the military. In accordance with Ukraine's laws on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, on social and legal protection of military personnel and members of their families, on the status of veterans of the military service of internal affairs and on their social protection, defined categories of military personnel and members of their families entitled to the following benefits: 50 per cent reduction in salaries for housing and utilities, use of telephones, free passage by urban passengers, suburban and inter-urban transport for military officials and veterans. Free travel to the place of vacation and in the direction of military personnel and their families, except military servicemen. Powdered sanitary treatment and free purchase of drugs, free dental flossing. Other benefits have been suspended. So free travel on vacation, as well as the receiving of military personnel, except for military service, food rations or their desire for financial compensation instead of rations and monetary compensation, has been suspended by the Ukrainian Law on certain measures for the economy of budgetary resources. I'd like to point out that, actually today, military and military veterans use only one benefit to the full, that's a 50 percent discount on housing and utilities. However, due to the partial reimbursement of funds from local budgets to the military township, there is a huge debt to energy and gas - efficient organizations. Constant restrictions on heat and other utilities and, as a result, total lack of funds for the current repair and disposal of emergency situations. This situation is particularly exacerbated at the beginning of the heating period. This leads to accounts blocking and increasing social tension. In view of the fact that many military units are on the same power stations, local energy, regardless of anything, is shutting down the power lines even from the parts that carry the battle lines. And compensation for the expenditure recorded from local budgets takes place on a residual basis. The biggest debt is the local budgets of Lvivska 5.2 million dollars, Odessa - 2.7 million dollars, Hmelnica - 2.3 million dollars, Žitomirska and Kirovograd. In fact, only 20,000 of the 800,000 military personnel and their families are actually using the PDA because of their limited funding. Yes, the Ministry of Defence needs 267 million dollars a year for the benefits of sanitation, but the State Budget for 2002 provides only 70 million dollars. In doing so, all funds must come from a special fund, both for military personnel and for all categories of employees. The Ministry of Defence’s sanatoriums should therefore earn these costs at the expense of economic activity. As a result, this year only 20 percent of the military and other ploughers were resting because funding a sanatorium from other sources of a special fund is not possible in the Ministry of Defence. According to Ukrainian legislation, the military and medical institutions of the Ministry of Defence must provide medical care to 1 million 317,000 Ukrainian citizens, including 310,000 military personnel, more than 680,000 members of their families who exercise that right, and 327,000 veterans of war and military service. An expanded network of military-medical facilities allows this to be done. But if the Ministry of Defence is required to do so, 270 million dollars is allocated by the State budget for 2002 to only 18 million dollars, and to date, 12 million dollars are actually funded. This, of course, makes it impossible to maintain the proper health of military personnel. In addition, the Ministry of Defence receives numerous appeals and complaints from war veterans and military officials regarding the failure to provide them with full medical services. I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian national deputies to this urgent problem. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, which has a huge burden on its shoulders of medical care for a defined category of Ukrainian citizens, is unable to resolve it on its own, is in dire need of additional funds. Our parents, who defended the independence of the Fatherland, are certainly worthy of such expenses. Another of the most acute problems associated with military service is housing problems and the creation of adequate housing conditions. Today, there are 48.8 thousand homeless soldiers in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, of whom 3.7 thousand have been released from military service. To address this important problem, the President of Ukraine has developed and approved a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers to provide housing for military personnel and members of their families, which is scheduled to build and transfer 54,000 apartments from the planned for 2000-2002, 16.5,000 apartments were actually received under the housing of 8.5 thousand apartments, which is 52 per cent of the planned. For 2003, the programme provides for the construction and acquisition of 8.8 thousand apartments. That takes 572 million dollars. Ukraine’s State Budget project provides 285 million units, allowing for about 4,000 apartments. There is a lack of housing for the military at large. is accounted for. Interest on corporate income tax. Of the stated amount of subsidies, the share of housing for military personnel is 62.9 million dollars, equivalent to the cost of 721 apartments. In fact, only 195 apartments were received, accounting for about 27 percent. Regrettably, areas such as Kyivska, Volinska, Žitomirska, Zakarpatska, Lvivska, Poltavska, Chernigivska, Ravenska, Sumska, Hmelnicka, Hersonska, and the city of Sevastopol have not been handed over to the military. We see a way out of this situation in a more efficient use of funds, so the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine is working on proposals for second-market housing and the order of long-term credit. In particular, we foresee amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families on the possibility of compensating both credit and interest for its use. This will help to reduce social tension, especially in remote garrisons, reduce the number of homeless military personnel, as well as military personnel released to reserve or retirement in housing. Dear National Deputies! The second reading of the Supreme Council is accompanied by a draft State Budget Act for 2003, which provides for the allocation of expenditure on the construction and acquisition of housing to protected budget articles. Please have your support. I would like to say that thanks to your acceptance, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the laws, the actions of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the payment of pensions is made in full and in full. The introduction by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 4 July 2002 of amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Military Staff of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons" improved the pension scheme for military personnel, extended it to persons entitled to a pension. The maximum pension has been increased by 5 percent, with a limit of 90 percent of the corresponding sums of money, for which the military is grateful to the Ukrainian National Deputies. In addition, there are two of the most painful and acute problems, the first of which is the size of military pensions, which on average are 222 bracelets today. Secondly, this is the existence of imbalances in the size of retired military personnel released from military service in various years. This problem resulted from the adoption of a series of normative instruments to increase the financial security of military personnel through the introduction of various allowances and the implementation of a mechanism for calculating pensions. One reason that does not allow the full implementation of the guarantees declared by the State is, of course, the imperfections of the funding mechanism in general. With the aim of eliminating this problem and similar reasons, the Cabinet of Ministers approved in September 2002 a strategy for replacing the aid system with an address aid to the population. In our view, the gradual replacement of the benefits should be closely linked to the simultaneous provision of equal compensation and monetary equivalent to military personnel without diminishing the content and scope of existing rights and guarantees. In doing so, compensation procedures for war veterans and military service should be simplified as much as possible. Respectful national deputies, analysis of the implementation of current legislation and measures to strengthen the social protection of military personnel and their families, as well as the state of pension, medical, housing, and military pensioners and veterans, allow for further conclusions. First, the causes of existing social problems lie in the lack of funding for social programs and imperfect mechanisms. Secondly, the social status of military personnel, military pensioners and their families is significantly affected by the level of legislative and regulatory provision for the resolution of social problems, compliance and compliance with legal standards. The general proposals on these issues are added. Thank you for your attention and look forward to your understanding and assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, please sign up for oral questions. Meanwhile, Alexander Mikolaiovich, you may begin to answer written questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u114	Thank you. The social protection of the military received 97 questions earlier today. First question. "The overall characteristics and effectiveness of social protection programmes for parents and family members who died in the peacetime of military personnel and disabled persons whose disability occurred during military service." The issue of social protection for parents.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u115	Please explain who signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u116	and members of families killed in peacetime by soldiers and disabled persons are regulated by the Law on the Legal and Social Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families. This law provides, first of all, a 50 percent discount on housing, utility services in all forms of property, a 50 percent discount on intercity transport. And there are about 108 thousand parents and family members of dead military personnel in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence health facilities. The Ministry of Defence also has about 64,000 disabled people in health care facilities, whose disability occurred during military service.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u117	Samofal Gennady Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u118	European Choice Group, Samofalov. Alexander Nikolajevic, please tell us, according to the 2001 budget, when only 20 million troops were allocated housing, when 15 million were allocated this year, for a total of 200. - Five million, I think today is the main hope of the Ministry of Defence for investing in military housing. This is an investment programme for military personnel. Please tell me, what amounts are now approved under the contracts, what amounts have been earned and how many housing have been built on these amounts today?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u119	Thank you for asking. For the current year, the Ministry of Defence is expected to limit investment by 269 million. Money plus $5 million. Funding for housing construction under the General Fund and 10 million for a special fund. According to the Ministry of Defence, about 52 percent of the contractors have been employed for 10 months, enabling them to provide about 4,000. With a place to live. For various subjective reasons, we are confident that, unfortunately, we will not be able to absorb the full amount of investment that is planned for this year because there are many obstacles to real life today when businesses do not include these investments that they send or finance for housing. Out of the funding provided by the General Fund, $5 million has been funded to date, unfortunately, by one and a half million. As far as the special fund is concerned, it is also being implemented in a limited amount. As for the coming year, a total of 274 million is planned for the general fund, a total of 284, 10 million are planned. for a special fund. All of this is planned through a global fund with a protected article. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u120	It's a written question. Alexander Mikolaiovich, is there a written question?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u121	"Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u122	No, no, no, one minute. Is there a written question, Alexander Mikolaiovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u123	There is a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u124	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u125	"What is the current mechanism for the application of Cabinet Order No. 452 of 98 on the organization of additional types of financial security for military personnel, bearing in mind that Presidential Decree No. 923 of 96 on the financial security of military personnel referred to in this Order has ceased to be valid?" Mechanism for applying the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 06.04. 98 "For the organization of additional types of financial security for military personnel" is active, since paragraph 6 of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 04.10. 96 It is envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should organize the list, size and order of payments for special conditions of service for the qualification and other additional types of financial security that have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u126	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u127	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I want to touch on a subject that is constantly being addressed by the military in my reports. You know that in Ukraine today, the issue of compensation for the material and moral damage to the families of military personnel who died in peacetime in their service. For a long time, there is no Afghanistan, our children are not fighting in Chechnya, they are serving only in Ukraine, and they are constantly multiplying those who died in peacetime. The first question is, What is being done by the government, Kabmin, to drastically reduce the number of soldiers killed in peacetime? And second, what is the position of the Ministry, the Kabmin on changes and additions to the war veteran status law, on the social and legal protection of military personnel, such as the 100 per cent funding of funerals, the establishment of the same pension allowance and family benefits for the deceased, the real increase in the meager allowances for the loss of a breadwinner, etc.? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u128	Thank you for asking. I agree with you that it's relevant. In my view, in order to make it smaller, unfortunately, those who have died in the course of one or the other fighting exercises have to have a sufficient level of security in order to ensure that both soldiers and officers have the appropriate skills and training. To that end, we always make real budgetary inquiries to the government and together to the Supreme Council. But perhaps there are problems that the state cannot, unfortunately, ensure a proper level of action on combat training. With regard to your second question, the level of funding for the expenditure on these issues today increases little each year. For the coming year, up to 10 percent of the funding for these problems and the questions you have asked has been put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u129	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u130	With a view to strengthening the protection of members of the families of military personnel, why the government plans to suspend the second sentence of part two of article 118 of the Ukrainian Law on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families in Part of the Wage, the husband of the military officer of the hospital’s letter at a temporary loss of employment of a percentage of the official’s salary regardless of the length of the job. Ukraine's draft State Budget Act 2003, which was submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for first reading, article 56 of the Act provided for the suspension of the second sentence of part two of article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on Social, Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families for 2003. In the draft law submitted to the Supreme Council for second reading, this paragraph of article 56 has been deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u131	Bespalov Oleg Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u132	Dear Gennady Andreevich, distinguished Anatoly Kirilovich, distinguished deputies. The way the country is financing the Armed Forces today is in general a disgrace to us. And the figures that are being reported today, how much we have underfunded and how much we have not taken action, this is basically about how we are protected. That's why our planes are killing our civilians and our viewers, and that's why we're leaving our homes and that's why we're being treated around the world. It is because of how we feel about capacity, when neither doctrine has been developed, when a concept is not developed that is in line with the current situation, that is how we are treated. I have a question for you next. The fact that funds are not enough is quite obvious. And believe me, you won't get them anytime soon, because for the budget we voted for on the first reading, you won't see anything new. We spend more money on internal forces, finding our inner enemy than we do on defense. That's the question, Alexander Nikolaevich. What non-standard methods to eliminate this plight in the Armed Forces, especially in the ranks, are the Ministry of Defence going to take?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u133	The Defense Minister’s report stated that today the Ministry of Defence in that college, which recently took place, is taking steps to reduce the number radically, especially with regard to the reduction of maintenance costs in the entire armed forces. And the percentage of these maintenance measures is now more than 90 percent. That's why we're planning to cut the percentage to approximately 68-65 percent in the next three years in order to release these funds from the money support and back-up funds to raise, first, social protection, and second, perhaps most importantly, to further finance military efficiency and upgrade military technology and weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u134	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u135	What measures did the government foresee for the period until 2005 in the framework of the State guarantee to military personnel of material and other size that stimulate the interest of Ukrainian citizens in the military service? I would like to point out that the President of Ukraine has issued a directive of 29 October 2002, which sets out the task of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by 1 January 2003 to develop and approve a project of a comprehensive targeted programme to ensure the stability of material and other security improvements that stimulate the interest of Ukrainian citizens in military service. One more question that has just come to pass. Do you know that the pilots who took part in the scenic show were untrained during the flight, and what were they asking for fuel for a training flight the day before the tragedy? No command was given. I would like to say that the issue of fuel security, it has been answered several times today by the Minister of Defense of Ukraine that it is very acute, but thanks to the decisions of the Supreme Council regarding the release from the state reserve of 30,000 tons of fuel and the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, which also allocate 30,000 tons of fuel today at the expense of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's debt to the Ministry of Defence in previous years, I think this will significantly improve the provision of fuel to the Armed Forces and allow us to solve the problems to some extent that exist today in the preparation of pilots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u136	Manchulenko Georgiy Manuliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u137	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter! The first question is about providing military personnel with housing and that whole army of homeless officers that are here today. We have repeatedly implemented the State Budget Act on the Income Taxation of Companies, which invests in construction of homes for military personnel. I think it's time to tackle this problem in a major way and maybe give up this model, and buy service housing for military personnel and give credit, pay off interest on loans for those who have to buy this apartment, whether it's a reserve officer or already one who's retired. How quickly will this problem be settled at the legislative level? And the second question concerns both rest and the treatment of Ukrainian military personnel and the allocation of adequate funds. To be able to serve properly, we need to have normal health. How will this matter be settled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u138	Thank you for asking. About your first question. I've already talked about the amounts of budgetary funding that are being allocated in the next fiscal year at the expense of the general budget of the State budget of 274 million. These costs by destination can be allocated to housing and, secondly, to the purchase of housing in the secondary market. I think this is a question that we're going to study pragmatically once again and we're going to be able to build the buildings that are already under construction that are now in existence in general contractors who are working on housing construction in the Ministry of Defense, and then we're going to spend all of our money at the request of the military to buy housing in the secondary market. Regarding the loan of military personnel and the construction of housing and housing, unfortunately, the existing legislation does not provide for the repayment of interest on the use of military loans. That's why we've developed changes and additions to the legislative framework so that in the coming years, from the beginning of the 2003 budget year, the military could compensate for the State's credit at the expense of its use.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u139	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u140	Questions. "How does the government plan to implement article 12, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families regarding the granting of apartment and utility benefits?" I answered that question in my report. I think it's being regulated today. The only thing that needs to be done is to have sufficient subsidies at the expense of local budgets so that the benefits and subsidies granted to all those citizens living in our towns will be reimbursed at the proper time. With regard to the coming year, article 53 of the draft State Budget Act proposes that all these expenses be financed in the coming year through the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Unfortunately, I can say today that so far there are no amounts in the spending of the Ministry of Defence yet planned in our budget for the coming year. I think that these issues will have to be settled with us when we consider the draft budget for the next year on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u141	Nadajko Anatoly Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u142	Please pass the word Nosenko Mikoli Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u143	Thank you. Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Dear Alexander Mikhailovich, the media commented on the creation of a police force in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please tell me, what are the reasons for the creation of such an organ, and what will be the cost? This may have to do with the social protection of military personnel. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u144	In fact, the Armed Forces are now in the process of creating a law - order service that is created on the basis of an approved law. This is a process that has been initiated to create this service that will deal with all the crimes that are unfortunately among the armed forces today. And the experience of the armies of foreign countries has convinced us as well, and we are absolutely convinced that this will be only for the benefit of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and no substantial cost at the expense of the articles providing social protection for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u145	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u146	What is the average monetary size of various categories of military personnel in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the average income per family member? In answer to this question, I want to give examples such as the commander, the company, the captain, who spent 10 years in the service, earning a monthly allowance of 533 bracelets per member of a family of about three. If you take a flag, the tenth highest level with a service of 15 years, it receives a monthly income of 431 bracelets per member of the family of three, for example, 143 bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u147	Remenjuk Aleksei Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u148	Please give the floor to the National MP, Anatoly Matviennek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u149	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please give me the answer to two questions. You're talking about social protection, please tell me, what is it that explains that the problems of social protection of all the armed forces are now as a subset? Even compared to other strong structures, it's a few times less attitude between the government and the President in terms of guarantees of social protection. For example. The funds that the families of those who have died for the military are 8,000, and for the police co-workers, the BSS, the prosecutor's office is 50,000-60,000. How can you explain that? What is this state policy? And the second question. If you're advising the President and he's obviously speaking after your recommendations, how can you explain that the President claims that there will be a double increase in the 2003 military budget this year? How do we explain that the President claims that our armies are already dangerous to our own people? And the third. How do you explain that the President said that 1 in 4 officers is a criminal? What kind of politics is that? As Secretary of State, you can explain to the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u150	In answer to your questions, Your Honor Anatoly Sergiyovich, I can only say about the measures being taken today by the Ministry of Defence to address those problems of social protection of the military and to increase the state of general funding of the Armed Forces. Indeed, the National Security and Defence Council, which took place two days before the tragic scaffolding events, decided to substantially increase the funding of all the Ministry of Defence. But unfortunately, there are other figures in the draft budget that I think will be a little bit adjusted in the near future, and still, for cash maintenance, according to the President's decree, which all military personnel are waiting for today, there will be enough funds to secure their level of cash by 60 percent. As far as social protection is concerned, I've already said that we have developed a whole range of legislative proposals that will soon be introduced into both the Cabinet of Ministers' decisions and changes to the relevant laws, and this will also allow for improvements in the state of social security. I answered all the other questions in my report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u151	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u152	The question is: Do I believe that our army is now ready to protect, let God love, the independence of our Ukraine? I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u153	Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u154	Nicolanca, the Socialist Party. The socialist party has a clear military doctrine, and the issue of social protection is extremely powerful. But there is no time. I'm two specific questions. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I am absolutely interested in your opinion and the government regarding the situation that has arisen with housing in Ukraine at all, and we believe that a national coordination centre for the adaptation of military personnel could be involved to receive funds and influence the distribution of housing. But in this regard, I would like to ask for accommodations for military personnel, for example. in Sevastopol. That in Sevastopol you can't build at least a small family, so these boys, 10 to 15 years old, who graduated from military school, can't get this place. Russia's building next door. At least we built this dorm for these captains and lieutenants. And the second. What is your position that we have a regiment commander retired before 01.0195 will receive a pension less than a company chief who will be released from January 1st of this year? We must also take care of those who had retired before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u155	Thank you for asking. I share your concern, and, in fact, the problems that are at the home of our military personnel in Sevastopol, we're asking this question, I think we're settling in the near future, in the coming year, when we're looking at these issues of housing in the regions. With regard to the second question, in order to settle all pensions, it is necessary today and to make them equal today, it is necessary to have an additional amount in the State budget of about 1 billion 470 million dollars. The first amount has already been set up for the coming year, it is 147 million dollars, and 10 percent, as has been said today, will allow these problems to be partially solved at the first stage. If there is another amount in the State Budget, it will otherwise allow these matters to be resolved. In the coming years, the Cabinet of Ministers is also providing a level playing field, and for the coming year 2004, 200 million dollars are proposed to solve these problems. I mean, I think these problems will eventually find a real solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u156	Alexander Mikolaiovich, are there other written questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u157	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u158	Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u159	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski Jolkovsky district, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". First of all, a small note to you, Mr. Secretary of State: name the MPs who asked you questions because it seems that you have asked yourself written questions. And secondly, don't segregate the question. You answer one, you avoid the other. But now there are two specific questions. One, the minister I have honored, has so much to say in answer to this question: there is the huge, largest Yavorov region in Europe that has been inherited from us. He came to us tragically, for thousands of people were deported, evicted, and so forth. And today we exploit it, and thank God. There is this question in the people of my district, it's in the territory of my district: Is there an agreement between the Nazis and our command on the environmental damage that is necessarily being done? If they enter into a covenant, are they used, and how are they used? And the second question. Napoleon, and he knew about military matters, said, "50 percent of the military's strength is patriotism." It's my personal right as a person, I'm in patriotism today, I'm in nationalism and patriotism, I'm very doubtful. It's a big question, we'll talk about it. I have a specific question as the head of the Writer Association. We are now ready to deploy the military parts of one and a half thousand, a thousand Ukrainian writers who, for example, can talk to soldiers, eat porridge with them. Are you ready for this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u160	Ready. Dear Vladimir Alexandrovich, I apologize for not really answering all your questions that have come to me in writing. Because, well, all I did was answer the questions that I was able to read for myself and understand what they were all about. I'm sorry, I answered your question frankly. As for who asked the questions, there is a list. I'll take that into account in the answer. As for your questions about the Javorov region. Damage is compensated for in financing. Therefore, further use simply requires consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u161	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, would it be enough to make a mess of it if your writers took part?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u162	I answered the question that we are ready to cooperate, and the porridge will suffice.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u163	Anisimov, please, Viacheslav Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u164	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u165	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich Dear reporter, you know, I know and know a huge number of Ukrainian citizens, which is one very acute social problem -- the problem of retirement for people who retired a little earlier in the late 1980s -- in the early 1960s. It's not just a big difference, but very often it's just a pension gap. I do hope that that decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is accepted, will start to work and eventually this problem will be removed. But what you think is how long this period will last, because we have experience, let's say, solving this problem under the Pension Insurance Act, when four increases over the period from December 2000 to August 2001, i.e. within 8 months this problem was solved. So I'm asking questions about possible levers to speed up the solution to this problem, and how do you rate it in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u166	Dear Peter Stepanovich, answering your question. I want to say that according to the calculations that are planned to settle this problem in the coming years, it's scheduled for about five years. If there are more opportunities in the budget to offer and accept and allocate funds to solve this problem, it is usually necessary to speed it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u167	Please, Turkov. Is he gone? Alexyuk. You don't? Malinovsky Alexei Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u168	Thank you. Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. Mr. Reporter, here I am looking at the dynamics of the release of reserve officers. And it's planned to take into account reports of over 6,000 layoffs. Do you have an analysis of the reports, the officers? Is that a junior officer or a senior officer? That's the first question. The second question. When a part of it dissolves and there's probably a situation where the officer served 17-18 years, and he's actually getting fired. How are they going to be socially guaranteed his or her pension, or how are they going to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u169	The Minister of Defense, in answering this question, has already pointed out that in fact today, officers who have sufficient service to retire are being released from the armed forces. There are virtually no officers who are under 20 years of age. If an officer reaches the age of 20 today, he is already entitled to a pension, and the pension is regulated as 50 percent of his salary or as a whole. And then there's a progressive stimulus system.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u170	Simonov Vladimir Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u171	Simonov, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! I have such small two questions to ask you. First. How do the problems of retraining and employing military personnel who have been released or retired are solved? And the second question. What is the mechanism for payment of insurance payments under compulsory government insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u172	Thank you for asking. For example, in this year, more than 6,000 military personnel were employed by members of the armed forces who were released in previous years. These are different forms, starting with the creation of jobs in those enterprises that are now subordinated to the Ministry of Defense, and completing them with a retraining system, including a study of foreign language, which allows them to then be more assured of employment in certain positions. As far as insurance payments are concerned, the problems are huge. Today, including you, honourable deputies, asking questions raised this question about their level. I think we can do that, and to the extreme extent, we already have legislation in place, and we're going to sort it out a little bit, and we're going to solve it in the next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u173	Omelchenko Grigori Omelyanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u174	Omelchenko Grigory, Ukrainian National Deputy, Head of the Association of Officers of Ukraine Please tell me that, according to the President of Ukraine's assessment of the state of the Armed Forces, those massive facts of corruption, when the President of every fourth officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces calls a thief, giving such an assessment, I have questions of this nature. There are mass examples coming from the Ukrainian Officers ’ Association, the Committee on Combating Corruption, organized by Crime, when dozens of Ukrainian patriotic officers taking part in the armed forces are released from the armed forces. My name is Colonel Mikola Aseluk, Colonel Peter Nedzelski and many others. And wherever these officers are going, who are illegally released, they cannot reach the truth. And the Ministry of Defense simply declines to write-offs on parliamentary motions, on parliamentary motions. Can you personally, under your control, consider the illegal release of such officers and answer them?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u175	Please. To that end, I am ready to cooperate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u176	Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u177	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I have a question for you. First of all, here's the analysis note and the report of the Minister of Defence, and yours says that in 10 years of reforming the Armed Forces, we have led them to bankruptcy. None of the positions that had been planned at least here had been implemented. It's a break. Second. You know the term "The State that cannot feed its army will feed another's army." And that's the question. Tell me, in your opinion, what reinforcements are needed now and how long can the Ukrainian army be able to protect its country? Because that's what you gave me, and it's impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u178	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u179	Thank you. In answer to your questions, I would like to point out that the actual amount of funding that is currently in the Ukrainian Armed Forces is too meager and does not allow a major solution to military training or upgrades to military technology and weapons. Taking into account the reform programme, which can actually be updated if the level of this funding is roughly increased, at least twice, as all previous calculations show. As for the real situation, it is really difficult, and no one today speaks for it, without exaggerating that all these problems that are accumulated are very simple and easy to solve. It is enough to say that the Ministry of Defence’s debt, expected for January 1st of the coming year, will amount to about 600 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u180	Lechenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u181	Vladimir Leschchenko, and the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, the pension is paid to former military officials. But after 1991, when the Soviet Union was destroyed, there are a number of Ukrainian officers who served outside our republic and returned to Ukraine and took up much lower positions than they did there to serve the required term before retiring. Now they suffer from independent reasons. This needs to be corrected. How do you feel about my question that I have raised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u182	Thank you. I take a positive view of this problem. I already told you today that a month ago the appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, which partially allows this issue to be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u183	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u184	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you two questions. The first is, of course, the problems of my district, and these are two military towns in Kalinov and Red. There it is in one, in Red, an alienation from the army of property and selling it to the city of Town. And in Calin, tens of tens of officers, who were left homeless, applied to equip military buildings to do so. In the living room. And this issue has not been resolved in the last five years, probably. I would like to hear your answer to the question: Why? And the second. I was contacted by former members of the organization headed by UNAUNSO, who are still under military persecution. And I can call you names, dates, months and so on just because they're part of this organization and they haven't had any problems with having a professional service. Does the army continue to persecute all the dissidents or representatives of other political parties than those who now govern the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u185	In answer to your question, I'd like to say that I don't know why this is happening on the examples you're giving, this is the situation. I'm asking you to turn around and we're ready to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u186	Male Omelyan Nikonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u187	I have repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Defense with requests for the construction of a 30-bedroom building in the city of Jaskov, where there is a small military section of the air force. But today, 30 years later, there was no apartment in Zhaskow that was received by a military officer. And this year, I went back to the quartering department, and I haven't received an answer for today. Will this small town and this small military area be assisted in the construction of the house, since the building built is about 70 percent and is now being stretched out?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u188	Thank you for asking. I promise you to consider it, and I ask you to look personally at these questions that we have considered with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u189	Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u190	Please pass the word to Gregory Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u191	Turn on the Omelchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u192	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, relatively practically, does not have your answer. The dozens lie in parliamentary inquiries and appeals, beginning when he was Minister of Defense Alexander Kuzmuk, and today’s Defence Minister Alexander Škidchenko, on the illegal release from the Armed Forces of Ukraine of Colonel Mikoli Seluk and others. Questions of a different nature: do you know what's going on in the Ministry of Defense's military intelligence, where there's an irresponsible leadership attitude? Military intelligence into the prosperity of abuses and other negative things that should not be in this service at all, military intelligence is essentially broken down. Dozens of professionals have been released. If you don't know, set me up, and I'll talk to you about this, not as a national MP, but as a colonel of the Ukrainian Security Service, because military intelligence is practically destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u193	Thank you for asking. The point is that my functions do not include subordination and the task of intelligence. So I can't directly answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u194	Mihovich Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u195	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, in the Uzhgorod region and in other regions of our area, no basic payments are paid, which are required under the law and the status of war veterans, and the social protection of military personnel. The local authorities refer to anything, but the legal basis is, the line in the budget is appropriate. What's the reason why you think you can get out of this situation anyway?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u196	I think so. That the only valid way to deal with this problem will be by our personal cooperation with you in their consideration, because generalization cannot produce recipes that would allow the unified issues to be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u197	Timishenko, I can't see in the hall. Istenko, please, Volodymyr Mikolayovich. Petrov Viktor Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u198	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, Company of Ukraine, Petrov. There's a military medical center in Winnice City. When the military hospital was closed, everyone was transferred to the security center, all war veterans and veterans of the Armed Forces. At present, the lack of funding raises the question that war veterans and the armed forces at the centre will not be serviced. That's what's causing the tension in the city. First of all, I ask that you keep this matter in mind and not allow the Veterans Act to be enforced in the town of Vinnice. And the question is, how much does the Ministry of Defence take into account the veterans of the Armed Forces and the veterans of the war, and what is planned to take care of these people?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u199	I answered that question and said that, for today, there are 1 million 370,000 people in the Ministry of Accounting, for example, to provide various services of a medical nature. Of these, some 800,000 are military personnel and their families, and the rest are an indemnity contingent, former military personnel, veterans of the Great Homeland War, participants in hostilities, disabled people who need it in our welfare facilities. As for our first question, I noticed it, I'll take control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u200	Petrenko Volodymyr Sergijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u201	Dear Alexander Nikolaevich, why is Ukraine not in compliance with the CIS leaders' agreement on equivalent levels of military pensions throughout the former USSR? That's the first question. And the second question is, why is it that soldiers are given a pension depending on the length of their dismissal from the Armed Forces until the year 2000 and after the year 2000?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u202	The first question, according to him, is, in fact, a great many recent appeals are coming to the Ministry of Defence. I think this question will be settled in the near future as well. As for the different levels of pension insurance, the fact is that in the last five years, the increase in the fund of military maintenance has been due to additional payments, but due to the increase in salaries and so forth, this imbalance has been created.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u203	Alexander Mikolaiovich, thank you, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u205	The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich, will report. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government. In our committee's view, when we look at the government's report on the issues under discussion, the most important thing is whether we have been approached by the measures that have been taken here, and the work done here is large, to minimize it in no way, before the main task is to have in the country, as a result of reforms, mobile, optimal in number, armed with modern technology, professionally prepared, fully provided and yet not too burdensome for society, armed forces capable of fulfilling the constitutional duty, ensuring the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine, to cut off a possible aggressor. Regrettably, the analysis does not provide a positive answer. More than that, the problems that have long accumulated in the Armed Forces have become so acute in recent years that they pose a threat to Ukraine’s national interests, its defences, and its national security. First of all, dangerous scales and paces are being acquired by the degradation of the military capabilities of the Armed Forces. According to the Ministry of Defense, more than 60 percent of the weapons and technology that are now in the military, including more than half of the fighter aircraft, air defence complexes, two thirds of the artillery weapons, virtually all battleships are in operation for more than 15 years, and at any time can come out of order. New weapons and military technology are virtually unreachable. The Ukrainian armed forces are equipped with the main weapons of the third generation, while the NATO 5th and 6th armies. If the situation does not change, after 2005, almost 20 major types of weapons will produce their own technical resources. There may be a limit beyond which the Ukrainian Armed Forces will lose their fighting. And this is because the country's scientists, designers, designers, defense industry teams are able to create and produce the world's best aircraft, armored, missile-arthillery, navigational weapons, high-precision weapons, anti-aircraft, control and communications. Although the current level of budget funding for the defence and industrial complex, especially research and practical development, in strategically important ways to maintain the security and competitiveness of the directions, can deprive our country of this advantage. In addition, there are virtually no strategic reserves, especially fuel. It seems that someone needs to get rid of his time of nuclear weapons, alone with very unforgivable problems, not to have proper material security at his disposal and conventional weapons. It's different. Literally, the foundation of the Armed Forces, its human potential, is being destroyed. Regrettably, if you don't say, the material situation of the main military force, a third of the families that are not provided with housing, the stubborn efforts of today's government, which in these matters continues the line of its predecessor, the Cabinet of Ministers, Viktor Yashchenk, to restrict or deprive military personnel, war veterans and workers, the internationalist soldiers, of violating the Constitution of Social Guarantees, established by valid laws, implemented in recent years and proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, further action in this direction has resulted in huge, recent, I would say, a wave of force of officers. There are now more than 2,000 reports from the Ministry of Defense on the release from military service. And by the beginning of the year, four and a half thousand officers had been released, while it was predicted that during the year they would be released a little more than 100, 104 for accuracy. During the six months of the year, a total of 132 officers were released, and only for October 137. During the first nine months of this year, 500 officers of the Ukrainian Security Service were released. By October, 320 reports had arrived. Among those who are released, many older officers — the most experienced personnel — have spent a great deal of money in preparation. If this process is not stopped and it affects a specific area such as intelligence, the armed forces are threatened with losing in the coming years of the officer’s corps. Let's face it, part of the blame for this situation is for the Supreme Council, because the laws that discriminate against the military officials were approved right here under the government's orders at all costs to accept the State Budget. At what cost, the loss, now everyone sees. Less and less educated and physically healthy young people are coming into the army at the time of the appeal, mostly from poor rural families. The Ukrainian army has long become a peasant laborer. In accordance with the President's approval, the programme is being moved to a contractual army. But as it turns out, judge for yourself. The monthly maintenance of the sergeant-sergeant is only 291 bracelets, the mechanics office is 243 bracelets at an officially defined subsistence minimum of 365 bracelets. Is it not clear that in such a situation and a complete transition to a contractual system, which some consider to be little more than a panacea than any other problem, there is nothing to offer? I'm not talking about pilots, tankers, drivers being deprived of their training and thus losing their professional skills and disqualification. I cannot help but say that the presence in the military environment of serious problems and hardships, recent tragic events in the military, the campaign to discredit the Armed Forces has caused the community to cease to see military service as an honorable constitutional duty, and the profession of man in pursuits is losing its prestige and respect. Personally, as a citizen of Ukraine, I view this as a tragedy for the state, averting which binding government, the President, the Supreme Council. Third. Ukraine has stockpiled an enormous number of obsolete munitions that need immediate processing and disposal. Yet, because of the meagerness of the funds allocated to the Ministry of Defence, this is done at such a pace that it poses a serious danger to the consequences that are difficult to predict. The situation may become even more difficult as a result of the subsequent disbandment of many military forces. A list of critical problems in the military could continue. All I'm going to say is that this has been said, although perhaps in such an alarming form at parliamentary hearings in June 1999. Regrettably, the government’s recommendations of hearings approved by the Supreme Council were virtually ignored. Since then, the situation has not only deteriorated, the deterioration has reached a critical limit, and Ukraine has threatened the loss of armed forces. What's the matter? The main reason for the committee is that the exercise of constitutional powers following the implementation of measures to ensure the security of national security in the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers did not take a proper place. Colleagues know how keen these issues were every time the National Budget of Ukraine was approved when specific bills were considered. Yet the constructive suggestions of our committee, the people’s deputies, were generally rejected. The funding of the Armed Forces is less than half of what is needed. The requirements of the Ukrainian Defence Act, the President's decrees are ignored and there is no reaction. The level of budget allocations allows, at best, to maintain a special composition, that is, to ensure the physical existence of the Armed Forces, more or less decent, and not always food, the provision of goods for soldiers. But this undermines the entire system of government programs, plans, military reform measures. World practice is considered optimal when approximately half of the military budget is directed towards maintaining a special strength of the Armed Forces. In his preparation, about a fourth and so much for the implementation of military and technical policy. In Ukraine this ratio is quite different. Almost 90 percent go to maintenance, 7 to 8 percent to prepare, and about 2 percent to re-arm the troops. In absolute terms, the cost of implementing measures to upgrade and maintain military technology and weapons, to train military personnel, to train military science is meager. With such approaches, there is no need to expect the rapid conversion of the Ukrainian army to one that meets the current requirements. There can be no reason for concern, and that extremely dangerous processes in defence construction in Ukraine are taking place at a time when our neighbours are sharply increasing the costs of war and the Western states are essentially being set aside from Ukraine by a new "iron curtain". Here are some numbers. In Ukraine, there is almost 5 times less budget than in Russia for the needs of the army than in Poland and Hungary; 13 times less than in Turkey. The Federal Republic of Germany, France, Britain, and other European countries are not to be talked about. NATO recruits Poland, Czech Republic and Hungary, with a total of 120,000 square kilometres less territory, a population of 59 million in the Armed Forces of 276,000 people, in Ukraine of 390 thousand, are targeting military targets of 5.5 billion dollars a year, while Ukraine is about 700 million dollars a year, taking into account pension for Army pensioners. [[in Ukraine, as is known, 48 million]] The conclusion is that the government’s view of defence problems, the needs of the Armed Forces must be radically changed, or that Ukraine may lose one of the most important attributes of statehood — an army capable of protecting its sovereignty and integrity, the peaceful work of our people. What does the committee say must be done immediately? First. As soon as possible, taking into account the new geopolitical environment, the new challenges and threats, the real state of the state and the Armed Forces, the reform programs, the structure, the number, the timeline and the scale of the cuts, the time frame for the transition to a contractual basis. Take radical measures to speed up the army's resupply with modern military technology and weapons. This problem, in our view, needs to be dealt with in a complex manner with the reform of other military organizations, and I stress this, the whole force sphere that's become hypertrophobic and becomes too burdensome for the state with insufficient efficiency. The Supreme Council should adopt new foundations for Ukraine's national security, updated military and defence doctrine, a number of new laws, and make adjustments to previous legal acts. Our committee has a plan for this work, but this is a matter for the entire Supreme Council. The other one. Despite all the difficulties, it is necessary to radically change the budget for the following year’s approach to financial security, the military reform program. At the same time, take decisive steps to eradicate the illegal and inefficient use of budgetary resources, to ensure the implementation of such a tender policy, which would make it impossible to “screw” military organizations of different kinds of firms, firms, other structures that, like ticks, suck up public funds, as evidenced by the verification materials carried out by the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. Reform is complex and multifaceted. I cannot help but say that, we have cities such as the Starocostins of the Hmelničin, whose existence and function are practically fully linked to the activity of the dispersed military forces. What fate awaits the people there? And these are tens of thousands of military members of the family in the event of the disbandment of military forces! Who thinks so? Who will decide the fate of former military towns, bases, arsenals, shelters, airports? Third. It is necessary to expedite the approval of the State’s weapons development and military technology programme, which has been unduly delayed. Four. Ukraine’s mobilisation plan must be developed and approved immediately, ensuring the creation of strategic reserves needed for the guaranteed defence. These issues are now being resolved according to a mobilisation plan approved back in 1986. Strategic reserves are virtually unfulfilled. Fifth. We need to stop the anti-constitutional attack on the social and legal guarantees of the country's defenders. In the next two or three years, we need to take the edge off with the provision of housing for the military, do everything we can to restore the prestige of the military service. I can honestly say that today the situation in the Armed Forces has a lot to do with the decades of military self-reliance, their awareness of their duty to the Fatherland, professionalism, if you want, to be patient with our people, but this resource can be lost in the way that we are now dealing with defence problems. I don't want to scare anyone, but I have to say, the moral-psychological environment in the military and veteran environment is explosive. Not counting it, playing with fire -- it's unacceptable if you don't say more. Six. In connection with the transition to a contractual system for the recruitment of the Armed Forces, it is necessary to develop and carry out a statewide programme of training for young people to fulfil their constitutional obligation to protect the homeland. The main thrusts of this work are defined in the Concept of Advocacy and Military Patriotic Education, approved recently by the decree of the President of Ukraine. And one more thing. It is necessary to expedite the consideration and adoption of the Law on Democratic Civilian Control over the State’s military organization and law enforcement agencies. Of course, honourable colleagues, all of this will be done if the state really needs modern combat forces, reliable, guaranteed defence and security, if we don't want Ukraine to become a protectorate of any other states or blocs, and such a threat is real. It is worth thinking about how the strategic partner of Ukraine, claiming to be a crisis of confidence in the Ukrainian-American relations, exerting pressure on the situation around the issue of the Kolchouga radar complexes, playing a farce about the format of Ukraine's participation in the empty NATO meetings, while at the same time intensifying contacts on the military line, seeking to uncover our state-owned commercial secret in the field of new technologies, cooperation with other countries, is pushing for the implementation under its careful supervision of the so-called fundamental defence analysis, the aim of which, according to the NATO generals, would be to determine the size and number of armed forces that would correspond to the available resources, i.e. to weaken them further. By resorting to sanctions without establishing a crime, the United States does not regret tens of millions of dollars in further disarmament of Ukraine, the destruction of X-22 missiles and their carriers, our backfirers. By depriving our country of bombardment, the pophos call it the decapitation of a war dragon. In fact, it is nothing more than forcing our country to strip in the defensive. What have we come to see in this regard? The text of one of the Ukrainian weekly’s non - left - facing material, published last Saturday, is eloquent. I quote, "In Ukraine, there seems to be an increasing number of people who understand that we cannot pursue a self-sustaining and independent policy, which in the situation that has arisen, Ukraine needs or needs to lie in the middle of American politics, as most Eastern European countries have done, or to seek a more powerful advocate. " And then, "If we don't forget about European integration, if we don't, we're going to have to deal with Americans." In short, we have come to express a famous parliamentary classic. And it's all under the strong slogans of establishing independence and nation-building. Let me get this over with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u207	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Thank you. Let's move on to the question. Hinsburg Olzi Petrovney. Next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u208	Honourable National MPs, Honourable Chief, Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist factions. On this important rostrum and speaking of such a complex issue as the Armed Forces of our Ukraine, I would like to say the main thing is that today the Armed Forces of our Ukraine are not interested in anyone in our country. And the reason why our Armed Forces have become in such a difficult state depends on the head of our state -- the President -- is the government, but I have come to the conclusion that if the Supreme Council had not supported the President's policy of destroying our Armed Forces, that would not have happened. And you can't say today that only one person or the Cabinet of Ministers is to blame. We are all to blame here in this room because we either have good will or under pressure to support the policies that are being pursued in our country. I would like to begin my speech by addressing the members of the Armed Forces of the Sustina, who have addressed me as a deputy and my colleagues, Colonel Gordienko, Padal, Karachenko and Chalov. They ask: "In the days of State celebrations, especially on the days of victory, words of gratitude, respect and love, we are given enough from all levels of power. However, the pensioners of the Ministry of Defence who had been dismissed from the army until 2000 had not been added or indexed since June 2000. As a result, our real income fell by 40 per cent. Staff officers had begun to list various supplements, including for confidentiality, special conditions of service and so on, which had begun to take into account only those officers who had been on reserve only after 2000. As a result, officers serving in equivalent positions, military posts and with the same rank of service in the army, who had been dismissed since 2000, received a pension of about 40 per cent more. These unfounded actions are ignored by the Tashkent Agreement of Heads of State of the CIS and are also in grave violation of articles 22, 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine. We are planning to increase our pension by 10 per cent, not all of us. Honourable MPs, it's not cynic abuse, humiliation, it's only enough for valor and corvalo. And so on." I, my esteemed comrades, have come to this rostrum to say more basic questions. Air-based missiles, long-range bombers TU-22-M, which are being cut today, are being removed from our weapons, cannot be serviced, there are problems to be financed. I have a question, I ask myself a question and I find an answer. I wonder why we took the officers' clubs in our Armed Forces? The Women's Club of Officers, which was occupied by women, were set up to work, circled, and provided educational work. Where we have been today, which has provided jobs, has also provided food for many cities. But the thing is, they were leased and the money went where? Who can answer? I also wanted to say that in preparing for the speech, I wanted to touch not only the soul of the deputies present but the electorate who listen to me. See: Žukov, Suvorov, Kožedub, Vatutin, Chernyahovsky. [[I'm calling in the name of the great commanders.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u209	Excuse me, how much longer will it take?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u210	One moment, please. Yaremenko, Konev. I call the distinguished soldiers who have raised their army in their name to such a level as to be respected and loved by all the people. I want to recall today the Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, who also raised his army in five years to a certain level. And that is also the responsibility of this person. I'd like to suggest what the alternative is today. This adoption of the budget should be in the interest of our army. And the second. To raise the rank and authority of the army, we need to write books about the army, call them heroes. We remember the movie when we had Ivan Brovkin. We have to make movies like this with you today. And that also raises the authority of our army. I hope and believe that the personnel are sufficient in the army, and the political and willful will will will be sufficient for the deputies to pay attention and address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u211	Olga Petrovna, you can't do that. You're taking time from your colleagues! Please, Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovitch. Next up is Sherschun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u212	Slippery. A faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u213	Follow the rules, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u214	With regard to the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, it is very clear. It is in the same direction as the radical reforms of the President. Therefore, both the whole country and the Armed Forces have been brought to such a state that not only have they not been able to protect the Family but they have also become dangerous to it. Only NATO is pleased with the prospect of a professional hired army. The hired army will protect, not the interests of our State and its people, but the employer. Someone has long since warmed up under NATO's umbrella and now, through reform, is dragging the whole of Ukraine there, regardless of its national interests. At the same time, by inciting, deploying and selling the material and moral potential of the legacy of the Soviet army, our country has a company of discrimination and genocide against those who have created and strengthened it, carrying on its burdens by sacrificing their health and sometimes their lives. How can it be explained that, as Olga Ginsburg has already said, Ukraine does not actually implement the Tashkent Agreement of Heads of State of the CIS of 15 May 1992, which states in paragraph 1 that the level of military and family pensions established by the legislation of CIS States Parties cannot be lower than that established previously by the legislation and other regulations of the former USSR. We have pensioners of the Armed Forces receiving pensions eight to ten times less than they received in the Soviet Union. In 1999, the President's decrees raised salaries and recalculated pensions to all forces other than the Ministry of Defence. A monthly allowance for service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces was introduced to the Ministry of Defence and there was no recalculation of pensions for veterans. Why do pensioners, veterans of the Ministry of Defence receive 40 per cent less pensions for a period of three years than the BSP, the SVD and the MSS, and when will they be compensated for this material and moral damage? As a result of various tricks and financial manipulations for some secrecy, special conditions and the like, members of the military who had been dismissed before 1992 received pensions of 30 to 50 per cent less than those which had been dismissed in 2000. The pension gap has increased in two since 2003. It is not the first time that decrees have been issued on the so-called phased increase in salaries and pensions for military personnel. As a result, the pilots find themselves in special conditions. It is difficult for officials to make calculations and gradually increase everything and not divide them into whites and blacks. The same increase was made in the form of an allowance, and it is clear that veteran pensions would not be recalculated. In all areas, there are the administrations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights, the Social Security Service and pensioners. The pensioners of the Ministry of Defence were once again impaired. In particular, military clinics and hospitals do not exist in all district centres.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u215	Vladimir Petrovich, how long does it take?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u216	I'm done. Where the veterans of the Armed Forces could be served. In my view, there is a need for the social and pension security of the military to intervene in the Supreme Council, to establish a special commission, to deal with all these departmental contrives, and to adopt a law that would put an end to the abuse of the older generation of the defenders of the Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u217	The word is given to Shershun Mikola Haritonovich. Next Carmazine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not always necessary to imitate women; they too are wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u218	Mikola Shershun, Plainish, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Sorry, but we only mention the army when it's a disaster, and we're starting to demand from the army that it don't pose a threat to the civilian population. But let us keep in mind that it is impossible to use a weapon if you only see it in a picture or imagine it in a story. The cause of evil is here. Let me give you a few examples of the entire army. In the military parts located in the Plains region, there has been virtually no activity in combat vehicles in a number of years, the infrastructure of one of the airlines provides for the normal car show, the military arena of republican importance is practically a public pasture, and the greatest pride of the local military is the first time in 10 years of brigade maneuvers to be carried out, by the way, at least once a year. At the same time, we are once again offered to save a quarter of a million dollars a year in the army. To do this, the army has to become 24,000 smaller, with 900 basic weapons being removed. What kind of economy are we talking about if today a soldier spends as much as 17 dollars per month? It's 13 times less than, let's say, in Poland, and everyone with serious faces is talking about reforming the Armed Forces into a professional army. Who's gonna go to military work on a contract if the police major gets more colonels in the army? Nobody. The real state of affairs with contractors testifies to this. The queue is among those who want to serve in the Ukrainian bomb squad in Lebanon. Because that's where the soldiers get their $550 a month. This is the actual level of pay for a military job that dictates life itself. This is why experts flee the army. The Armed Forces are doing better than the best -- those who, thanks to their education, have no problem finding civilian work. For what can we expect of a nation that does not fulfill their social obligations? Food rations, food rations, and the right to travel free of charge to the place of vacation have disappeared. I'm not talking about 50 percent utility benefits anymore. How can people who do not have housing benefit from this benefit? For example, there are nearly 500 military specialists in the Rivne garrison without their own roof, of whom a third of the team is headed by the commander and his deputies, and the families of the lieutenants who live in the dormitories have to pay for a cot and a place for which the benefits are not foreseen. I am deeply convinced and I urge you, my dear colleagues, that if you introduce a tax on profits for the military today, you can completely cancel housing benefits, reduce pensions and benefits for sanatorium treatment, the Ukrainian army may be left without a special composition. I want to see my colleagues. I'm done. The army is a necessary tool for the sovereignty of the state, which is to be financed. True, I think it's worth strengthening and controlling, including by the Supreme Council, the use of military funds, as well as the resources they earn, providing a variety of services. The same MPs who have determined that they will support the cuts and restrictions on the financing of military expenditures call for ancient wisdom to say that "he who does not feed his own army feeds a stranger." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u219	Your Honor, I'm going to have to turn off the microphone if you're going to go over the rules. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. The next Gerasimov. Follow the rules, Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear government! Dear people of Ukraine! The Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 17, stipulates that the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity, its economic and information security are the most important functions of the State in the affairs of the entire Ukrainian people, and part 5 of this article states that the State provides social protection for Ukrainian citizens who are serving in the Armed Forces and other military formations, as well as members of their families. What the government has done, we've all heard from you. We saw what was in the analytics and materials, as we were given. Unfortunately, only the first page, accompanied by the Prime Minister, Anatoly Kinach. We, the national deputies, wanted to see the Prime Minister in the rostrum today as the head of the government. It's very bad, Anatoly Kirilovich, that you didn't want to come forward, that the President didn't want to come.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u221	It's way ahead of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u222	You didn't want to do it and you didn't want to do it. In 11 years of independence, we haven't bought any airplanes. Ten tanks of their own modern production are armed. No matter what year of independence there is, whether it's a plane or a tank, we cut what's not ours, and we start doing it the day Parliament, its own Parliament, starts looking at our own state. But if some poor congresswoman came, you'd send him the routes to the President's Administration, and Chief Secretary Medvedchuk would be cruising in front of him how and what's going on. And there's no one here to show up before their own parliament, and no one wants to. I believe that what we have been given, I stress, is only one letter signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, another goes without signature, other materials. This is the recognition of bankruptcy, unfortunately, of the whole state on behalf of the government. Why are we doing this? It's all clear now. And the Party of Protectors of the Homeland doesn't feel guilty about the state of affairs in the Armed Forces. A party of country defenders can't take that kind of blame because they were asking this question in '97 and they were sequencing all the questions she was saying, you just didn't want to hear us. And here we talked about the smart adoption of a new Ukrainian doctrine that would protect against any aggressor. We're talking here about a sequential reduction, and we're talking about democratic control. You're proposing today, think about it, in your proposals to pass laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What about parliament’s opposition to the adoption of the law? But he's already passed this law. The Commander didn't want to sign it. And you're proposing it here today. You're proposing and saying that there's some funding going on today. 1998 - 17 percent, 1999 - 17, 2000 - 23 percent, 2001 - 36 percent. Tell me, please, we've achieved, we're 50 deputies, 55 who are here, we've reached a decision of the Constitutional Court, so you're not doing it!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u223	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u224	I'm finishing up, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u225	That's a lot of stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u226	I'm done. Dear friends, how come I'm turning to the government? There is a decision of the Constitutional Court, it is criminally responsible for failing to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. And what did you do? You don't do it brutally! And today, I don't see the Minister of Finance here, and I don't think he's interested in that. And here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u227	You say four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u228	And that's why we have citizens from all over the region talking about stealing, about corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u229	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u230	I'm done. If only the destruction of the armed forces would end. I'm definitely against the missiles being destroyed, the planes and I are being destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u231	Turn off the microphone, please. Helpful. Yuri Anatoliyovich was probably not present at the beginning of our session when we decided that the Prime Minister would speak in sum. The word is Gerasimov, the next is Andreszuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u232	Dear Gennady Andreevich! Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! Deputies! Ancient philosophers have rightly warned that if you want to live in peace, to prepare for war, the state of readiness and mobilization of the State and its armed forces must be at the forefront of the leaders of the Ukrainian legislative and executive authorities. In considering the draft budget for Ukraine for 2003, it is not difficult to draw some conclusions that the problems of protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State, in particular the state of development and the increased military and mobilization readiness of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, are mildly of concern. At least the budget allocated to the Armed Forces for this year testifies to this. It has reached only about 8.5 per cent. How can we explain that? And it's been 10 months. Where did the rest of the millions go? What are the more important goals? Therefore, the recent emergency in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which indicates a lack of high-level military training, is perhaps to some extent legitimate, since the financing of the Armed Forces in recent years does not allow for planned and practical training of troops. Therefore, Air Force pilots do not fly, sailors do not go to sea, tankers do not drive tanks, nor do they fire, nor can other specialists do their skills. All of this is referred to as insufficient field, maritime and air training of personnel. I am no longer saying that there are no funds to order new weapons and the development of the latest technologies of the funds allocated to the armed forces are insufficient to pay for food and wages. I think we should just thank the Ministry of Defence and the commanders of the compound parts that are somehow distorted in this situation. I believe that the Supreme Council is under an obligation to intervene in the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Funds should be allocated as much as is required to maintain the ever-increasing military mobilization readiness. And it would probably be nice to think about putting more of the family’s defenders on. It refers to the composition of the military and the sergeants. The form they're wearing right now is only for field classes. And it's not for permanent wear. Of course, it was true that Genius Napoleon, who said that he did not want to feed his army, would feed another man. Therefore, the adoption of the budget, which is primarily devoted to the content of other ministries and agencies at the expense of the financing of the Armed Forces, cannot be allowed. In addition, consideration should be given to the leadership of the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers for the real care of veterans who have been dismissed from military service, particularly their housing. Today, more than 30,000 dismissed soldiers from the military service without housing. How do these families live, how do the defenders of the Family live? And no one thinks about it. I think that it is necessary to strongly abandon the current pension discrimination that officers have been dismissed before and after 1994. The difference is very significant. We have to divide them and others. Anatoly Kirilovich, we've spoken to you at the meeting, we need to make a decisive correction to this case, we need to level the pensions of those who were fired earlier and those who were fired later. Finally, serious attention must be paid to the physical training of the young contingent. Dear comrades, young people come into the army completely unprepared. This should be done and entrusted to the authorities concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u233	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, thank you. The word is given to Andresyuk Boris Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have recently begun to forget something about the fact that the army and the military organization of the state should be, indeed, national. Moreover, the number of military formations and special services gives individual politicians reason to talk about the formation of a military state in Ukraine. To stop this kind of conversation, the Supreme Council, together with the President of Ukraine, has to work with the executive authority to optimize the structure of the state's military organization, because the armed conflicts of the late 20th century require a comprehensive and objective review of all national security, especially its military component, if we do not want to remain "tank Don Kyotos" in the era of space mills. We need to change the ideology of our defensive doctrine, to maintain our defenses, not by a number, but by quality. At the same time, it is necessary to deprive the Armed Forces of their inherent functions. I mean the need to transfer liberated military towns to local authorities. By the way, their reconstruction would have helped to solve the problem of housing for officers. Unfortunately, the army’s army corps continues to remain one of the most socially vulnerable categories of the population. This is evidenced by the fact that over the past three months, nearly two thousand staff officers have been released, including many senior officers. This process is beginning to become dangerous. What is involved in the process of decommissioning Ukraine’s military elite? The answer to that question is simple: everything is traditionally money - resistant. According to the Supreme Council of the Law, a reserve officer could count on substantial financial assistance, accounting for 50 percent of the monthly maintenance of an officer for each full year of service. These funds were a real social aid because they enabled the employment of former officers, their social adjustment to civilian life, and helped solve the housing problem. However, Victor Yushchenk’s government had issued a decree that changed the social protection mechanism. According to her, an officer who had been released to the reserve could have calculated a maximum of 5 official salaries, much less than before. Sadly, today’s government wants to use this practice as a weapon. In this case, our nation may be virtually without an officer’s middle and senior staff. And the only way to talk about the country's defenceability is to talk about it theoretically. Our faction has consistently supported the Cabinet of Ministers in terms of budgetary cost optimization. But we don't think it's possible to do it at the expense of social protection funds. The faction of SDPU(o) will consistently and inevitably defend the interests of the military and their families. In an unstable external political situation, security should be at the centre of the attention of all legislators. The idea of creating a modern and effective army can and should be consolidating to the various political forces that stand in the patriotic positions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u235	Thank you. The word is given by Kuzmuku Alexandre Ivanovich. Next Domansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Republic, the distinguished Ukrainian government, the distinguished members of the College of Defense! In 1999, I informed the Ukrainian Parliament about the current state of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the main directions of reform and their exploration. What's changed? The following has changed. And I'd like to pay attention to that. The vast majority of the speakers have called the Armed Forces "our Ukrainian Armed Forces" and have become less of an object of political speculation. What's gotten worse? During this time, we have developed science-based state-based military reform programs. We have adopted better laws in the world that regulate the activities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. They came to us, they were copied, they were developed. We don't do them all ourselves. Today, the Minister of Defense of Ukraine has honestly and openly reported on the current state of the Armed Forces, their problems of reform and development. The overall state of most weapons has already reached a critical limit, and some samples have exceeded it. There's practically no emergency supplies. A large number of weapons have been stockpiled, ammunition that needs to be disposed of. Their further preservation poses a real threat to the lives of citizens. A significant and tragic number of social problems have been accumulated that have not been solved in years. I think you agree with me that there are reasons to conclude. Armed forces are in such a state, ignoring and delaying their problems will result in a complete loss of self - worth and constitutional responsibility in the coming years. So the question of resources, funding is not a desire, it's an understanding of why it's going to happen. The 2003 budget indicates that only the Ministry of Defence is responsible for reform. Another chronic error is being made -- budget only for expectations, but budget not for development. In order to remedy the situation more quickly, it is necessary, at least during the 2003-2005 period, to provide guaranteed and rhythmic funding for needs. Otherwise, four or five years from now, we're going to have to rebuild the resilience of the troops and forces, buy new technology, train up 50 times as much money as we do now. In addition, I believe it is necessary to support the Ministry of Defence's proposal to fund the needs of the Armed Forces solely at the expense of the General Fund, the right to manage the funds of the Special Fund under appropriate control to provide the Ministry of Defence with an early response to the primary and non-planned problems. Over the last few years, we've been talking about creating civilian control over the Armed Forces, one of which is parliamentary control. Today we have the opportunity to apply it. There is no indifference to the future of our nation in this room. That's why I'm talking to my colleagues. Let's support the Armed Forces so they don't repeat the disaster, so the army can give the people their respect. I want to stop at one more problem. During the years of independence, only the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces are subject to reduction. At the same time, other military formations grow year after year. other ministries and departments that create their armies. This has led to duplication of functions, money laundering, and the formation of a numbered army of officials who carry pursuits and rank. Should we not look for the necessary funds? So I'm going to give you a historical analogy. The United States began this in 1968. Poland started in 1990, Russia in 2000, and in 1905 the archival data was demoralized by a non-performing army. And the emperor gave the 300 scientists an offer. The year studied the situation and these proposals only 3: To enhance the reputation of the protector of the country in the eyes of society, to increase the salaries of the officers and the resources of the army, and to capture the pursuits and various titles of officials of other authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u237	Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich. Next up is Jurkovsky. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u238	Dear participants in today's meeting! After 10 years of reforming the Armed Forces, our President has just had to realize that the Armed Forces are in critical condition. The President made this conclusion by speaking to the panel of the Ministry of Defence a week ago. But I'm surprised at why today, speaking, the rapporteurs, the solicitors, all those who spoke and said: they destroyed the Armed Forces. That's not it, that's not it. What about the names of those responsible? Where's the Chief Commander? Where are the prime ministers sitting here in this room? A wastebasket that didn't even put a piece of equipment on it? Where is Yushchenko, who has blocked and selected benefits for all the soldiers and members of their families? Where's Comrade Kinah's team today? I understand they're good guys, but they're from the Armed Forces as we are from Africa. They're afraid of these armed forces. Comrades! I've been on the committee for five years, and I'm going to give you an example. Every year, the Supreme Council met four or five times. Didn't we tell the Secretary of Defense and Kuchma that the pilots weren't flying, that there would be Sknilov? Didn't they say the tankers didn't shoot? Didn't we say that utilities cut off electricity and gas? Hadn't they asked for urgent measures to solve all problems with the housing of officers? An officer's family receives kopecks for each family member. What is the minimum of living? Cops! Many officers cannot send their children to school because there's nothing to buy shoes for, nothing to buy notebooks for. We can talk about other matters today. What is the reason for this condition? You'll call me a country that, with independence, would receive a strategic missile army, four air armies, over 5,000 tanks, I'm not talking about nuclear weapons tactical, tactical and other. Why? Because he was chosen by the leadership of the country and those leaders of the Armed Forces by mistake, they took the wrong path to maintain deterrence in the form of strategic missiles and other different forces, they followed the path of disbanding the army. I want to, given that we're in time. make a proposal. First. There will be no reform until a special organization is established, a committee headed by a Deputy Prime Minister, freed from all cases, must include a Deputy Minister of Social Security, a Deputy Minister of Education and others, who should only be involved in the reform of the Armed Forces or tell you to reduce them. I believe that the Supreme Council should adopt a special law on the reduction of the Armed Forces. No official has the right to withdraw from the law, an officer resigns from the law, to grant him a benefit, an officer resigns, he has to receive an apartment allowance, i.e. a special law should be passed without which the case would not go away. And once again, we see the attitude today, we are discussing the issue of the Armed Forces, the Supreme Commander, there is no Secretary of the Security Council, the Head of the Supreme Council, and he has indicated his participation in this matter and has gone incomprehensible. If that's the attitude of these officers, I'm sorry, the army won't be able to move from a dead end. One more. And how does it feel, given that comrade Kinach is here, we have failed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u239	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u240	I'm done. We failed to make an army order of 30,000 kerosene and now give me VAT, 20 per cent of the contract to conclude that you're going to buy kerosene, and so on. And last of all, comrades. There are many letters, because reforming the armed forces is not just an army, they are cities where 60 per cent of the military lives, they are military cities. It is a group or not a commission, but a committee to deal with and address these issues in an integrated manner, only then can we resolve these issues and resolve them. And by closing my statement, I will say that as long as the leadership of the country treats the army this way, we will not move this issue from a dead point.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u241	Rudkovsky Dmitry Alexanderovich, please. I would like to inform the national deputies that the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, went to Poland today with an official visit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u242	Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! The issue that is being considered today cannot leave everyone in this room indifferent, but also all Ukrainian citizens, because it is the ability of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to ensure the exercise of the functions of protecting the sovereignty and independence of our country. So today, I would like to draw the attention of a distinguished audience to whether or not the State has given its armed forces at least the minimum that meets the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine that they need in life to carry out their duties? Today, there is a question of the level of financial security below which the armed forces cannot exist at all. I'm not going to give the total numbers, they're set out in the draft budget submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers for second reading, but I'm just going to stop at a few questions that need to be addressed and can be resolved. The first is that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is excluded from the draft budget approved by the Supreme Council in its first reading, 150 million dollars needed to implement the Presidential Decree on raising financial security. Military officials look forward to its implementation, since today’s provision has not increased for four years. Today, our military officer gets three times less than Russian, six times less than, for example, Latvia, not to mention others. The introduction of a 100 - percent allowance instead of the current 40 - percent bonus does not allow us to catch up with the level of money provided by our neighbors, although it will improve the lives of military personnel. But instead of providing the budget for this increase, there is a provision in the budget for article 53, which deprives the military of social guarantees for the reduction of housing and utilities, without any compensation. There are attempts to go further and introduce a further profit tax on military personnel, and this can be completely nullified by the decree of the President of Ukraine. The second question. As a result of the annual underfunding, the Ministry of Defence has become the main debtor, with an debt of almost 600 million. That's right. The financial accounts of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine were repeatedly blocked by the decision of the courts of commerce, which poses a direct threat to the security of our state. So I appeal to the government that these issues must be foreseen in the budget and that the debt owed by the Ukrainian Armed Forces should be repaid. Otherwise they won't exist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion and information provided by the Rules is over. Before you go to the summary of the Government Day, allow me to give the floor to the head of the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to analyse the state of affairs in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and to prepare appropriate proposals, the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Alexiyovich Zinchenko. Please, Alexander Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u244	Honorable national MPs, government, guests, and invited ones, during the discussion of the government report, there was a meaningful, frank, and sometimes harsh conversation. In all differences of opinion, the feeling of responsibility for the fate of the Armed Forces prevailed. We are all convinced that the situation is serious and requires urgent radical action. So from the High Council committee that prepared these parliamentary hearings, I will try to summarize briefly the position of almost all speakers. First, existing problems require a comprehensive approach to solving them, and it concerns not only the Armed Forces, but the entire military organization of the state. Reforming its own Armed Forces is only an integral part of military reform, in which all branches of government, government, transportation, APC, academic and scientific industries are involved, apart from the army and the fleet. Partial, cosmetic, as it were, decisions will be made. We need to make sure that we choose a clear, transparent, scientifically sound, and therefore a predictable military doctrine. If we set out the four main elements of military reform, the profound transformation of the state's military organization management system, the reform of the Armed Forces assembly system, the change in the recruitment system and the development of the special forces, the principle of changing the weapons security system, we have to conclude that we have all managed to do very little. We were more likely to hold back the situation than we were able to move on to creation and development. The result of sufficient chaotic activity in the field of military construction often comes down to purely organizational action. But at the same time, I would like to support the efforts of the Ministry of Defence to manage the situation of extremely difficult material and technical security, to create conditions to ensure the security of the Armed Forces, and to use this parliamentary rostrum by speaking to all commanders, officers, flagmen, swordsmen who work to ensure the security of the state. Secondly, it is clear that without adequate financial and material security, we will not be able to reform the army and the entire force sphere, to solve the acute social problems that have accumulated in the military environment. Both the government and the Supreme Council committee need to work on the 2003 budget in all financial difficulties and difficulties to find the best right solution. Unfortunately, this cannot be done in the current budget. Thirdly, we must all realize that without taking radical measures to protect the social security of military personnel, military veterans, pensioners, we will not be able to avoid the dangers of society. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine needs to consider immediately all issues related to the solution of social problems arising from the reduction of the military force, the release of military infrastructure, and special attention to those cities and settlements where the military forces are stationed. There is a particular need for the government to take precautions to prevent an explosive situation. We expect that a government commission for the reform and development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, created by the President of Ukraine, will prepare large-scale proposals, including the thoughts expressed today in this room. One of the most pressing problems is the disposal of outdated weapons and military equipment, the deployment of weapons, surplus technology, property released in connection with the downsizing of the Armed Forces. Solving this problem requires qualitatively new complex approaches, a solution that will provide additional funding for the implementation of the military’s first priority tasks. The chronic financing deficit of the Armed Forces forces forces forces the search for nontraditional sources. We need to be very careful about privatizing military trade, supporting farms, other non-professional organizations that need to be cut off from the military budget. In doing so, we should consider that we have both negative experience and abuse in carrying out similar measures in the past. Over the past few years, it has been difficult to implement state defence orders, especially in the direction of conducting scientific research and research and development work to modernize existing ones and produce new weapons and military technology for the needs of the army, which also has a negative impact on its reform. Moreover, this could lead to the loss of the scientific potential of the industrial complex, the destruction of its production, and the technological base, which cannot be allowed. The Cabinet of Ministers needs to accelerate the approval of the weapons and military technology development programme by 2010 and to increase the costs of defence, as well as to take comprehensive measures to restore to the full the unsustainable supply of material resources necessary to guarantee the country’s defence needs, adequate military and mobilization training. And the next. If we recognize that military reform in Ukraine is to lead to the formation of an army, not a totalitarian, but a democratic state, which is respected by a people that is powerful to an economy that is now secure and open to society, it will not be possible to limit itself to the transformation of the Armed Forces and other forces. In such a large and important state, there is no need for effective civil control. Civil control is required for the implementation of the military budget, using the military forces for military purposes, for the volume and quality of weapons production and military technology, for the military and the fleet. And citizens, tax payers, have to know where and what a lot of financial resources are spent on, whether the numerical structure of the power units corresponds to the existing defensive tasks and whether they are enforceable for the economy. The object of civil control must be anything that is not restricted by law and is not a military secret. That is the kind of control that should prevent corruption, bad conscience, and irresponsibility. Unfortunately, this direction is clearly not enough. And last of all, about what happened after the hearing. The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, primarily a professional one, together with government structures, the Ministry of Defence, other ministries and departments, are tasked with preparing a package of proposals for legislative measures to reform the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The Supreme Council has to make full use of all available controls provided for by legislation. From the issues discussed here today, draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been introduced. We will consider them in their proper order. If there is a government of ministers, national deputies, there is a note, a proposal, a request. Thank you to all who have taken part in the preparation of these parliamentary hearings, have made their proposals, and we count on the same work in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u245	Honourable National Deputies, as provided by the "On the Day of the Government of Ukraine", are invited to the summation by the Prime Minister of Ukraine Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u246	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to express the Government's gratitude to the Supreme Council, the people's deputies who have been critical and understanding about the problems of the Armed Forces, on which article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine relies on a high task of ensuring the defence of Ukraine, protecting its sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability. It must be noted that the security and national security of the State is a problematic and sensitive sphere on all sides: political, economic, financial and diplomatic. The government believes, and I am pleased to note that this has been practical today both in the reports and in the speeches in the Supreme Council, it is clearly and in detail argued that the implementation of defence reforms should be based on fundamental principles: the economic capacity of the State, the efficiency of the use of appropriate resources to defend the need and the unconditional, civil, democratic control of the sphere. And this should be understood and carried out by all the structures of government. According to my strong belief, the process of reforming the Armed Forces is a state-wide matter. It should be in an organic relationship with the process of stabilizing the economy, increasing its rate of growth under careful, unbiased civilian control. These profound systemic issues can only be solved by deepening the interaction of a constructive, professional branch of authority. For example, I would like to point out that the fact that Ukraine is significantly lagging behind other states in the formation of sound economic rules, the non-adopted Tax Code, the unfinished pension reform is all that has a very negative impact on both reform and the development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So given the suggestions that have been made today, I would like to emphasize in particular the proposals made by professional, reasoned ones. The government considers the following trends to be a priority in cooperation with the Supreme Council. First of all, it certainly needs to clarify the overall structure and size of the special composition of the Armed Forces, the number of weapons and military equipment, the military authorities, and so on. This includes the administration’s equipment. By the way, the President of Ukraine pointed to this at an expanded meeting of the Department of Defense College on November 5th this year. A rational level of defence spending needs to be determined, both for 2003 and for the following years. Conduct an optimisation of the organizational structure of the military authorities, starting with the central apparatus of the Ministry of Defence to the Corps. Include in predicted minimization and improvement. These issues are to be settled by the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ukrainian laws, the President's decrees. Once again, we need to take into account the proposals that are now set out in the parliamentary hearings to review the allocation of the State budget for 2003 in order to focus on improving the preparation of advanced defence forces, optimizing the structure and size of the Armed Forces. That is, to reinforce the component, the intelligence of the Armed Forces, the change in the required weight, which applies to consumption without any deterioration in the right conditions. Organize and conduct a proper level of defense. This issue is of fundamental importance to Ukraine in terms of the implementation of national objectives, tactics and strategies for military reform, in view of the very complex and dynamic processes that are taking place in the world around Ukraine. We certainly need to pay attention to issues that affect the efficiency of the use of material resources, including the efficiency of the Ministry of Defence's economic activities. First of all, study the economic efficiency of the Ministry of Defence's enterprises of repair, construction, agriculture and others and determine the further relevance of maintaining them in the structure of the Ministry of Defence. It is certainly necessary to bring into line with the current legislation the activities of the Armed Forces, the closure of unwarranted expenditures from the State budget, abuses and corruption, such as those that do not suit the interests of ensuring the security of the State. The state property released as a result of the downsizing of the armed forces must be realised and leased only by authorized authorities in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. We need to point out that there is a very serious trend that also affects Ukraine's security and, in general, the use of that scientific and technological potential that is still in our country, it is a military-industrial complex that must be brought into line with the needs and scope of military orders, certainly taking into account the development of international cooperation in the development of new models of military technology, the scope of the structure and the export of arms. The government's order for the near future needs to be made to take into account the state's actual capabilities, to predict where only conservation is, and first of all to improve technology, especially for the production of modern weapons and military technology, and, of course, to meet the requirements of competitiveness. We need to improve the mobilisation reserve system, and here I fully support those critical remarks that have been recorded in this room today, military technology and other material resources in a special period, to identify the state's mobilisation capabilities in modern economic conditions and the need for mobilization capabilities. I would like to point out that the failure to resolve this issue to date significantly reduces the competitiveness of huge numbers of Ukrainian enterprises, and this issue needs to be addressed as a priority. Stocks of technical and material resources will be brought into line with the level of resources targeted at the targets, with a consistent increase in economic opportunities of the State and the need for Ukraine's defence capabilities. Of course, the solution to social issues is of great importance. I am absolutely confident that the reform of the Armed Forces should be carried out against the background of a dynamic improvement in the social security of military personnel and their families. We need, and I have the hope of constructive and fruitful cooperation with the Supreme Council, of working out a legislative framework on the social standards of the provision of military personnel, so that this sharp topic is not a hostage to short-term political conditions, and people have the prospect of planning their lives. These standards should be set as an integral part of the annual government’s financial and budgetary policy and provide for the necessary pensions for military personnel who have been released or retired and who are certainly to be brought to the only standards in force in Ukraine. I fully support the proposals and proposals on the need to speed up the adoption of Ukraine's draft law on democratic civilian control of military formations and law enforcement. This will allow for the introduction of principles of an international code of conduct on democratic civil control in the area of defence and law enforcement. In our view, it is necessary to review the relevant legal instruments to ensure that they conform to the concept of national security of Ukraine, the new edition of the military doctrine and the mandatory financial and economic analysis of projects. I am sure that all legislation relating to the military sphere must be economically sound. The preparation of a very important document is being completed, referring to a national programme for the development of weapons and military technology. We are planning to consider a draft national programme at the National Security and Defence Council meeting in Ukraine, on the basis of December, and we ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the first place, to consider the project of the National Military Development Programme as a basis for defence and appropriate scientific, technical research and specific activities. Honorable national MPs, honourable colleagues, support the criticism expressed today and the suggestions on the need for direct concrete measures to ensure social security and a substantial improvement in the environment of military personnel, military pensioners, and their families. I want to inform you that today I fully support the National Deputy General of the Gerasimov Army. The Cabinet of Ministers is taking the first step on the issue of the very serious problem of the pension gap of the military who have retired in various years. I inform you that on October 25, 2002, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decree of 1576 on measures to increase the level of pension insurance for military personnel, primary and military personnel and took the first step towards increasing the previously appointed categories of military personnel. And we're going to deepen this work, because it's based on principles of social justice, including social justice. I would like to assure the distinguished national MPs and answer the question raised in one statement that the government will ensure the implementation of the changes made to the law of Ukraine, which provide for substantial steps towards the retirement of military personnel, persons of the primary and military internal affairs bodies and others who have a bearing on this. Amendments to the Law from July 4, 2002. Of course, we will step up our jobs, and I believe that we have every opportunity to implement fully the President's decree of 23 February 2002 on strengthening the social protection of military personnel and members of the military and primary forces, which provides for payment of monthly allowances of 100 percent of the financial security. Once again, the decree number 173 of February 23, 2002 will certainly be followed. And this has been highlighted on a number of occasions and in the course of the presentations, I want to inform you about the policy and strategy of government action. That the government will not allow the improved state support system for military personnel, the improved social tax system, and the benefits of violating the material and social status of the relevant categories of our citizens. And for the purpose of social protection of military personnel, we propose, and we will continue to work on the draft budget, in accordance with an article of the draft State Budget Act 2003, to preserve state support for housing, transportation and sanitation. But at the same time, take a step to ensure that this state support is targeted in a concrete way without diminishing the social guarantees of the citizens concerned. Dear national MPs, colleagues. I am absolutely confident that today those problems that have a strong enough impact on all aspects of Ukraine's national security and the lives of its citizens can be solved only on the basis of, first and foremost, consensus with power, political stability and the creation of the necessary conditions for the development of Ukraine's economy as a basis for improving citizens' lives, improving their well-being. I am confident that with the joint efforts of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, we will be able to save the necessary conditions for the creation of modern, mobile, sufficiently secure, with guaranteed social standards of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you very much, on behalf of the Government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputies for understanding the situation in the defence field, specifically, provides a clear opportunity to deepen cooperation and achieve the corresponding results that both society and the state expect of us. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-12-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, in summarizing our frank conversation, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that we, as legislators, are responsible for the further fate of our Armed Forces. Based on the problems identified in the presentations, it is appropriate to develop and implement a new system for the mobilization of the Armed Forces. Solve the issue of the maintenance of weapons and military equipment in arsenals and on the basis of operational commands and the use of military personnel reserves. Breaking and enacting a law that will regulate the formation of a military budget, much of what has been said today. Take a deep look at all the suggestions made by the speakers in this session hall and determine how they are implemented. We have a time-qualified and responsible draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on these issues. We know that soldiers and officers, regardless of today’s problems, are doing their duty worthily. Let us express our heartfelt gratitude to all, all who serve in the military, those who have chosen the profession to protect the Fatherland. The Government Day has been completed in this regard. Thank you all for taking part in the discussion. We're still working on committees this week. Good luck.
