ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council! Please take your seats in the Plenary Hall. Dear National Deputies! Allow me, on behalf of all those present in this room, to extend a warm welcome to the national deputies of Ukraine who have been elected to the elections that have taken place, to wish them a constructive and, above all, effective work. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In accordance with the Constitution, I invite you to the rostrum of the oldest elected Ukrainian national deputy, Jaroslav, Joseph Stecko, to read the text of the oath. Today on Mrs. Stacko's birthday, let me welcome her on your behalf and hand her flowers. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I ask the Ukrainian national deputies to stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u2	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all compatriots."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that yesterday was an unwelcome, bitter message about the death of a well-known Ukrainian football coach, deserved to be loved by all the Ukrainians of Valeri Lobanowski. Please honor his memory with a moment of silence. A moment of silence. Thank you. Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! It takes two hours for the ceremony to sign the text of the oath by the people’s deputies. [[So the Preparatory MP Group proposes]] The signing act takes place in the third floor towers. Those who want to take pictures will be able to take pictures of who they want with whom they want and to order pictures that will be posted on the stand. After signing the text of the oath you make it on the second floor at the registration tables, you get ballot cards and register for the first plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will begin at 12 o'clock in this room. A break of 12 hours is announced for this procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u4	Dear national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council! Let me inform you of the outcome of the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian people’s deputies of the fourth convocation. According to the election results, the Central Election Commission issued temporary certificates to 447 Ukrainian national deputies. They took an oath, took office as Ukrainian national deputy for the fourth summons and registered for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 443 national deputies, three absent for important reasons: Borgich Alexander Ivanovich - sick, Zaklunna Mironenko Valery Gabrielna - sick, Udovenko Gennady Josephovich - in a foreign assignment. Got the text of the oath, but still hasn't returned one MP, I think he'll come back. [[That's where they were looking for the MP.]] In accordance with article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fourth call is complete and may proceed to work. Thus, the authorization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the third call from this point on ceases. In accordance with article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, the first rank of civil servant was assigned to Ukraine’s National Deputies under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] On the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine, I invite the oldest of the people's deputies of Ukraine, Jaroslav Joseph Stecko, to come up to the rostrum and open the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u5	Dear national deputies and guests! First of all, I would like to welcome all the newly elected deputies to the highest representative body of our state. When we became national deputies, we took on a high responsibility to meet the Ukrainian people’s expectations of a better fate, a better life. I hope that we will be able to justify the confidence of the electorate and to make full use of the authority given to us for the good of the Ukrainian nation. People with different political views are represented among the people of the peoples, so political opposition in the Supreme Council is inevitable, and it is natural for the parliaments of all nations, I hope that this opposition will remain within civilized boundaries. I am confident that in my decisions, the Supreme Council will be governed, not by personal or corporate interests, but primarily by the interests of the Ukrainian State. And I want to believe that love for Ukraine will be a factor that unites all of us. I sincerely wish the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine fruitful work. Glory to Ukraine! The first plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, held on March 31, 2002, declared open. [[Applause]] Sounds like the State Hymn of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the recommendations of the Preparatory MP Group, I invite the head of the Preparatory MP group Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich to continue the plenary meeting. [[Applause]] Conducting the meeting of the chairman of the Preparatory Deputy Group
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. As already reported by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the previous call, Ivan Stepanovich Plush, the Preparatory Deputy Group has instructed me to hold meetings prior to the election of the Presidency of the session. Let me inform the Ukrainian National Deputies that in the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, members of the Central Electoral Commission, the People's Deputies of Ukraine, the leaders of the judiciary, the central authorities of Ukraine, representatives of political parties, civil and religious organizations, the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Chief of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the heads of district councils and public administrations, the city heads of Kiev and Sevastopol. [[Applause]] There are also heads of diplomatic representation in Ukraine, representatives of the media. Dear National Deputies! In Article 3.2. 1 The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations stipulate that voting on decisions taken by the Supreme Council usually takes place once a week on Thursday. And you and I need to solve the issue, probably without waiting for Thursday. Therefore, the Preparatory Group recommends that we make a decision that we will be moving away from this position for a period of time, that decisions be made only on Thursday. [[The project is given to you]] The draft regulation proposes that, in order to implement the agenda, the priority tasks for consideration of the first session of the Supreme Council should be taken up by the time the committees of the Supreme Council are formed from all the issues that we will be asking here, discussed, taken immediately after the discussion. Do you understand the offer, Your Honor? Then please take a look at the text of the draft decree made by the Preparatory MP. I don't think there's any need to discuss this project. Nobody insists? No, it's not. There's no objection to the project? None. Then please ask the National Deputies to prepare for a card vote. This is going to be our first vote, I'm asking colleagues who know how this is done, if possible, to help those colleagues who are going to press the buttons for the first time. Please be prepared. Many of us, dear colleagues, are going to do this for the first time, so you'll understand your excitement, but believe me, soon we'll be tens, hundreds, thousands of times pressing the buttons, so everything will become normal. Please put to the vote a draft Order on how to make decisions from the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. If there's no objection, I'll put it to a vote right on both the ground and the whole. Is there no objection? Then please make up your mind. Vote. "For" - 386. Dear colleagues, thank you for this result - 386 national deputies supported the decision. Please explain the factions. Oh, no? My dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm told that, as yet, we're not structured, we're part of the factions formally for the time being. Dear colleagues, we must now choose a temporary Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For proposals on behalf of the Preparatory MP Group, Stanislav Mikolaiovich Nikolayenka, secretary of the Preparatory Group for the National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u8	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Electoral District 187, Herson District]] Dear national deputies, guests, invited! On behalf of the members of the Preparatory Group, I propose to select a temporary Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The total number of members of the Counting Commission is 21 people's deputies, defined on the basis of the proportion set by the working group: of the 20 deputies, 1 representative on the Counting Commission. Let me introduce you to the composition of the commission that is being proposed. From the constituency block of the political parties "Vektor Yuschenka Block "Our Ukraine": Asadchev Valeriy Mihajlovich, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, Kostinjuk Bogdan Ivanovich, Manchulenko Georgiy Manoliyovich, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich and Taras Viacheslavovich Černovil. From the Communist Party of Ukraine: Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, Mishur Valeriy Dmitrovich, Chicanov Sergey Vladimirovich. From the electoral bloc of political parties, "For the One Ukraine!": Alexander Ivanovich Borzich, Ivanov Sergey Anatoliyovich, Kalichenko Igor Viktorovich, Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich, Majo Vitaliy Ivanovich, Mirimsky Lev Juliusovich, Ryabikin Pavel Borisovich, Fomenko Katerina Alexandrovna and Sergei Volodymyrovich Shevchuk. From the Socialist Party of Ukraine - Grzezhev Anatoly Dmitrovich From the constituency block of the political parties, "The constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko" is Constantine Mercuryovich Sitnik. From the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, Ryabika Vladimir Leonidovich. [[united]] The draft regulation is listed on page 8 in the documents given to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u9	Thank you, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, are there questions to be answered? Yes, I can see your hands, so please sign up. Please explain. Thirteen national deputies were enrolled. Dear colleagues, would you mind if we took five minutes to ask questions? There's no objection. If I'm not mistaken, the first one was Klukkowski. I don't have anything on my screen. Please, the representative of Klukkowski has the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u10	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you. Victor Yushchenka's electoral block "Our Ukraine", the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear reporter! The Preparatory Group proposed a ratio of 1 member of the Committee of Counties from 20 Ukrainian national deputies. Please indicate how many numbers are confirmed by the representation of the electoral blocs and parties, and on what basis so many of them go to the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u11	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, thank you for asking. You and I have discussed this in detail in the working group, we are both members of the Preparatory MP group. And since I'm informing all the people's deputies, at the time of the listing, only three political forces that went to the Supreme Council -- the Socialist Party, the Communist Party, and the election bloc of Yulia Timoshenko -- have submitted a name from which they're proposing deputies to the Counting Commission, we've clearly defined three. The rest sent letters indicating the number of their factions, so a proportion was established according to these letters. It was not personally named, but the working group, in order not to get into a dead end of the session and not to open up a discussion here about a matter that is very important, but not in principle, has arranged to come up with such a proposal. And they made proposals to the leaders of the political forces who went to the Supreme Council on the basis of their proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do those who sign up for the question insist? Yeah, okay. Please, Deputy Pinzenic. Following him is the deputy of the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u13	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I don't think anyone would have any questions if the chairman or Stanislaw Nikolayenko had announced the number of applications submitted to one faction or another, because this raises questions. How can we vote without knowing how many people represent a political power?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u14	In fact, your question is right. The working group held a similar discussion of this issue, and we asked all political leaders by May 7 not only to provide data on the number of deputies who join the faction but also to name them. Unfortunately, I repeat, only three political powers have made clear who these people are, the other data did not. The regulations provide for the formation of political factions a little later, and today we will form them. So the task force, given all the circumstances, offered this order. Maybe Adam Ivanovich will tell me that some other political forces have given me data, but at the time I went out to the rostrum, I didn't know about it, so from what we had, we formed this composition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Deputy Headate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u16	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The MP's faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. On behalf of the faction, I support the candidature of our faction, but at the same time, the honourable chairman, taking advantage of the opportunity that this is the first opportunity to sign up for the presentation of the procedure, I would like to thank you for presenting all those present today in this session room, particularly the entire composition of representatives of the Ukrainian people, who have formed their senior representative body and the only legislative body of the State for the next four years. I am grateful that the Cabinet of Ministers here is practically in full stock, just like the diplomatic corps and the judiciary. But I don't understand, Mr. Chairman, from the point of view of the order of conduct and procedure, why there is no head of the Ukrainian State at this meeting who ignored the will of the Ukrainian people. If he is not sick and is not on leave, I feel that this is a disgrace to the Ukrainian people, whose authorized representatives are present in the hall today. This behavior of the head of state is unworthy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u17	The next MP asks a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u18	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 216, Kiev]] Thank you. "Our Ukraine." Mr. Stanislaw, I would still suggest that we get out of this situation very easily. According to the order of the day, we have questions about the formation and registration of MP factions. Now let's put it up, form factions, and then see if the quotas that are divided correctly are fractional, and form a numerical commission. That would be wise, and no one would have any questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u19	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! The point is that this issue was also discussed by the working group. But since the Supreme Council Rules clearly define the issues that we have to consider first, and the first question there is the establishment of the Counting Commission, because any decision, even what is taken by the balloting, can be challenged by the Counting Commission and so on, and we can make other decisions, the working group has come to the conclusion that it will first create the Counting Commission and then decide what you have proposed. Sergey Anatolyovich, I think if your faction were to make lists, we'd move faster. Neither did you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u20	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! We're going to vote now. The only thing I want to say is, let's not worry. Note that you and I are choosing a temporary Commission of Counties. So if we go to the question of the formation of MP factions and groups, we form them, we officially publish them, and we see that any faction hasn't used its quotas, and we have to add them, we're going to add you. If we see that one faction has taken over the quota and has to be reduced, we're going to shrink. That's the first one. The other one. Right now, we need to select a temporary Counting Commission, because that's a regular rule: the temporary Counting Commission is first chosen. Anything can happen to the "Race" system, and something is already happening, you see, I'm asking you to show me who signed up, not on the monitor. Therefore, a provisional Commission of Counties is needed to make decisions. If necessary, we can make adjustments at any time. Dear colleagues! The only thing I would like to take into account is that Ivan Stepanovich has informed you that, in connection with the disease, the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Borzih has not taken an oath; he is not a National Deputy at this time; therefore, instead of the National Deputy of Borzih colleagues, he is proposed by Draag Vasil Ivanovich. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] . They're offering from the block "For the One Ukraine!".. Please, with these proposals, the draft Ordinance on the Temporary Counting Commission will be put to the vote first. Vote. "For" - 244. Thank you. 244 national deputies voted in favour. Decision taken. There is a proposal to vote in favour of the draft decree as a whole. Is there no objection? Then I put to the vote the entire draft Order on the Temporary Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. "For" - 252. Decision taken. The next question that we should consider with you concerns the composition of the Presidency of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On behalf of the Preparatory Group with suggestions from this issue, the coordinator of the Preparatory Group for the National MP of Ukraine, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, will be speaking. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u21	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! At the request of the Preparatory Group, I am submitting to your consideration a proposal for the composition of the First Session Bureau. The preparatory parliamentary group, taking into account the unanimous opinion of the leaders of all six political parties and party blocs, proposes, in time for the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, to entrust the holding of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the fourth call of the Presidency in the composition of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Martinyuka Adama Ivanovich is the head of the Preparatory Group, Musyaks Viktor Lavrentiovich and Konovluk Valerija Ilić, the group's deputy heads and Nikolainka Stanislav Mikolaiovich, the secretary of the Preparatory Group. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue is given to you in the collection on page 10. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u22	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. Will there be questions for the reporter? There's a question. I see the hands raised by only one political force. Then please identify who is Turkish or Pavlovsky. Yes, Turkey or Pavlovsky and Immortal, and we will vote. Please, who? A Turk? Turn on the microphone of the Turkinov MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u23	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Julia Timoshenko's faction. Dear colleagues! First, the reporter provided unreliable information. This decision was not taken unanimously. Second, the decision was completely different at first. It was suggested that six representatives of the political parties and the blocs who had won the elections should have joined the Bureau. The last day this decision was changed, and I repeat, this decision was not made unanimously. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that the Presidency should not only hold meetings, it should hold consultations, especially when it comes to the election of the Governing Council. To avoid the fact that there is one faction sitting in the hall, which consists of faction leaders, and at the site of the Presidium, another Presidium, there is a proposal to select the Presidency in the same way as the six national deputies, who are representatives or leaders of factions who have already formed in the Supreme Council. By the way, the faction composition corresponds to the parties and the blocs that won the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u24	Deputies! As members of the group, we were informed of such a decision, of such an agreement with the leaders of political parties and blocs. A preparatory parliamentary group has made suggestions for your consideration. You, dear fellows, are to resolve the matter of the composition of the Bureau. And there's one more thing I'd like to add. More than six leaders of political parties and blocs can coordinate. The work carried out in the Preparatory MP’s group during the time leading up to the opening of the session showed that the function was quite effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u25	Literally in order of information. Of the 49 national deputies of the Preparatory MPs who took part in the meeting yesterday, 45 national deputies voted in favour of the proposal to speak with the People’s Deputies. MP Immortal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u26	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear George Korniyovich! Dear colleagues! So it happens that in one case we refer to the Rules, and in another we refer to tradition. Our rules were prepared for the majority model, and representatives of the Counting Commission, as you recall, were chosen from regional delegations. [[This is for Stanislav Mikolaiovich, and for all of us.]] On a proportional system, this model cannot be accepted. That's the first question. The other one. The question of the Presidency is not settled by any document, but more powerful than any normative base that we still wish to write is tradition. The tradition of the Supreme Council is that meetings before the election of the Head and the deputies are always led by leaders of factions or regional delegations. So we ask the faction to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u27	Dear Roman Petrovich! You didn't add anything to what your predecessor said. I'm just going to say that to resolve this issue to the Supreme Council, which decision the Supreme Council will take, that's what it will be. A proposal has been submitted for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u28	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, don't worry, everything will be resolved now. A draft decision prepared and introduced by the Preparatory MP will now be put to the vote. We don't have another draft regulation. That's the first one. The other one. I'm informing the people's deputies that we're only making decisions about draft decisions that are handed down and that are, as it were, in the hall. That's why we're now putting to the vote the draft decree made by the Preparatory MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] Which one of the reasons for the vote? Deputy Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u29	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Yes, indeed, the first decision made by the working group to review the factions’ meetings was that the temporary Presidency would be composed of factions that had been formed by the Supreme Council. But in the course of the discussion, considering that some aspects of political pressure or influence of a presiding officer would have to be removed, the possibility of some dispute over who is in charge of a particular meeting, considering that the working group that we have formed has already begun to consolidate the composition of the Supreme Council and to work productively, working on some or other decisions, the faction leaders have actually agreed and have asked the working group once again to review the decision. I call on everyone: let's get right now and let's give the working group that's been preparing the draft documents that are in the material, knows what proposals have been made, to have this, so let's say, part of the plenary meetings -- to elect the leadership of the Supreme Council, and we're going to take away all the political issues because they were chosen by our own representatives at the meeting of the working group. I am addressing the leaders of all factions, as well as the national deputies, and I am asking you to support the proposal of the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! I ask you to take the draft decision proposed by the Preparatory MP. The draft Decision on the composition of the Bureau shall be put to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Let's not argue. With motive? Let's make this happen: until we have formed factions, with your permission, I'll give you a word of reasons to vote on the representatives of each of the six political parties and the blocs that have overcome the four - percent barrier and would like to speak for reasons. What other political forces insist on making a statement of motives, please raise your hands. As long as I see the representatives of our Ukraine. Please identify who's from our Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! The Immortal asked questions, and now before the vote, we express our reasons for voting. As long as the representatives of our Ukraine are identified, because three hands are raised, who will speak out of motive, I see they have expressed the desire of the Social Democrats. Please turn on the microphone of the Medvedchuk MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u31	Ukrainian national deputy (mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Ukraine’s Social Democratic Party (United States) Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to stress and support the Chairman's observation that one draft ruling that can be discussed and that can be voted on is now presented for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Other draft regulations and proposals, including those made by experienced parliamentarians in this room, are not available. So, Adam Ivanovich, I propose to support the decision that was voted by the majority at the Preparatory MP Group meeting on organizational matters to identify and move on in the way that the Preparatory MP Group has defined and placed in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u32	Thank you. From "Our Ukraine" is the word of the National Deputy Ostrash. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u33	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 127, Lviv region]] Dear fellow national MPs! We cannot begin our work by breaking laws and democratic principles. We've already voted in practically favour of Go Great -- we've formed a reckoning commission for the Dead Souls. I think it was a huge mistake of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now on that point. Article 2.2.8 makes it very clear that the Presidency of the session is created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People’s Deputies on the basis of a proportional representation from various parties. So in this case, it's from factions. And one more thing. Dear Adam Ivanovich! You're trying to usurp the right of the task force to offer us solutions. The mandate of the People's Deputies is confirmed only now. So we couldn't make written proposals about a project. That's why I'm proposing, and that's fair, now take into account the proposals made by the people's deputies, expressed in a voice. And we have to vote for them. In particular, our faction also proposes that six leaders of the MPs be included in the Bureau. Please keep that in mind and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u34	Thank you. Deputy Karpov is from the block of "For the One Ukraine!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u35	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! I would like to quote to the end the article that Ostrich referred to. And it goes on to say, "and also taking into account their agreement to derogate from this representation." Proportional or consonant. We have now reached an agreement to deviate from such a proportional representation. So I ask you to put this question to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u36	Thank you. There's only one political power left to speak to -- it's from Julia Timoshenko's block. Please determine which one of you: Head or Onopenko? Please turn on the Head Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u37	Dear Lord Chairman! I want to make a statement to the two national deputies of Medvedczuk and Karpov. As for the fact that there are no other draft regulations. Dear Victor Volodymyrovich, you have just taken an oath and gained authority. How much time does it take to prepare a draft decree for the faction to agree, to submit it to the registration sector and to submit it to the session room? Was it real within the faction's time to do it when we just started the session? What the Preparatory MP Group did was its formal task, and we agreed that a working group could, when MPs have authority, prepare this draft regulation now. The fact that there is no draft decision does not mean that we cannot make changes or proposals. That's the first one. Second, what Karpov said is an agreed option. If one or two factions disagree, can it be thought that this is an agreed option? Agreeable on the basis of a vote or a majority, or agreed upon by all. The two factions make their specific proposals on proportional representation, and we ask you to follow the democratic principle, not centralism, but the democratic principle of proportional representation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please calm down. No one's going to usurp power here, that's the first. Secondly, it's going to be decided democratically by pressing buttons, and if any of the proposals are going to get the required number of votes, it's going to be accepted. Everything will be put to the vote. Therefore, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on behalf of the Preparatory MP Group, is now being put to the vote to elect the presidency of the First Session of the Supreme Council of People's Deputies of Konovaluk, Martinyuk, Musiyak, Nikolayenka. Please make up your mind. We're voting on the ground. "For" - 259. A decision on the basis of a decision has been taken. There is a proposal to vote in general. Please make up your mind. "For" - 258. Decision taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, the Presidency has been elected. The elected members of the People's Deputies' Presidency, I ask you to take up your jobs. In connection with the election of the Bureau, certain technical issues need to be addressed. I'll call it a 15-minute break. After the recess, we'll resume the session at 1:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to take up your jobs. We'll continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. By the decision of the Bureau that we have chosen, I have been entrusted with the meeting. Now you and I, dear colleagues, need to consider the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth time before the election of the Committees. On behalf of the Preparatory Group, the word is given to the coordinator of the subgroup of the Ukrainian National Deputy Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Please, Georgi Korniyovich. And I'd like to invite you to make an appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! Allow me to report the proposals of the Preparatory Group on the order of the day’s first session of the Supreme Council until the parliamentary committees are elected. These suggestions are presented in this booklet on pages 11 and 12. These are priority, urgent, including installation, questions related to the organization of the work of our session, the order of meetings and voting, the formation and registration of parliamentary factions, the election of the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the identification of the census, the functional orientation, the numerical composition and the direction of committees, the selection of their heads, the first substitutes for the session, and the identification of the work of the session. Since the draft ruling on this issue is available to the national deputies, I will be limited to a few explanatory remarks. The proposed draft agenda is basically in line with the requirements of Article 2.2. 6 Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine At the same time, the Rules provide for a list of issues for a first-line review, taking into account the relevant provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. You honourable colleagues may have pointed out that the project does not, inter alia, provide for the selection and hearing of the report of the mandate commission, for the decision-making of the report is because the functions of verifying the authority of the national deputies of Ukraine after the adoption of the Constitution and the relevant laws are now placed on the Central Election Commission. The question of the formation and registration of parliamentary factions is proposed immediately after the question of the minimum number of MPs has been resolved and the amendments made to article 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council Rules have been made. This should be done in view of the fact that consideration of and approval of all issues, as we have seen, depends largely on the factions themselves. That's why factions have to be formed. We have to decide on the procedure for voting on the Supreme Council, First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, because there are some disagreements in the Rules of the Supreme Council on this issue. So this question needs to be included in the list, just like the question of how to make decisions from the first priority issues of the first session that we have already considered. The Supreme Council regulation, which was approved in 1994, before the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine, provided for hearing and discussing a report by the President of Ukraine on the socioeconomic situation in Ukraine. The Constitution, adopted in 1996, establishes that the Supreme Council hears without discussion, emphasis, honourable colleagues, without discussing the Ukrainian President's message on Ukraine's internal and external status. [[paragraph 8 of Part One, Article 85]] We are, of course, guided by the rules of the Constitution. At the first session of the Supreme Council of the past call, the President delivered a message on the first day of her work. Today, the President has asked the Supreme Council to provide for the hearing of his message after the election of the Supreme Council: the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is reflected in the proposals of the Preparatory Group. After the election of the Supreme Council leadership, the heads of Parliament's committees, the first deputies of committee heads, the selection of the composition of committees, we need to approve a list of issues for the day's consideration for the further period until the end of the first session. All of this is provided for in a draft Supreme Council ruling that you have. A preparatory parliamentary group is requesting support for this project. Of course, fellow workers, fast - moving life can raise sharp questions that will require an immediate response from the Supreme Council. In each case, the Supreme Council will decide on their consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there questions for the rapporteur? I can see two hands. Then, if they don't insist anymore, we'll give the word without writing it down. Please, Immortal. Follow him, Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u42	Victor Yushchenka's electoral block "Our Ukraine." Dear George Korniyovich, regarding the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, his First Deputy and Deputy, as I know, in the course of the consultations, it was proposed that this vote should take place in a package. In the daytime, these questions stand out as separate. So the proposal is either to write the "election of the leadership of the Supreme Council" and then decide, as the House votes, whether or not to vote, or you have to write it down as agreed. That's the first one. And the second. Our faction proposes to remove the draft Order amending article 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u43	Dear Romane Petrovich, with regard to the final proposal for the deletion of the draft Order amending article 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council Rules, this issue was discussed at a meeting of the Preparatory Deputy Group in quite detail and for a long time. But the Preparatory Group, by a majority, spoke for the matter to be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. Of course, the Supreme Council will decide. It's about the first question. On the day-to-day basis, I think it's the right thing for us to decide both the question of the Head of the Supreme Council and the question of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. So what we're going to do about this is we're going to solve this with a package, it's different, it's technology, we're going to decide how we're going to deal with it and how we're going to make a decision. And in the daytime it must be recorded as recorded in the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, Pavlovsky. After him, it's freezing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u45	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Thank you. Julia Timoshenko's faction. Dear George Korniyovich, have I rightly understood that this session is called upon to bring up the questions that we have already been asked, which were accepted in the first reading of the previous session, and which should be further worked out? Is it possible that the most important bills that determine the development strategy that factions and national MPs have proposed, in particular the principles of internal and foreign policy, the principles of national interests, or strategic bills, should be included in the agenda?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u46	Now I'm going to report on the first priority issues, until the election of the Supreme Council leadership and the formation of committees. There, as you've pointed out, is also the last item -- the order of the day session of the Supreme Council for a further period. That's what I said. We've been given a preliminary list of issues that have already been decided on in the first, second reading. It's probably half a hundred laws from the President's veto. This is all there is, but it does not limit the right of the people's deputies to bring into the order of the day any questions they consider necessary. And the ones you called and the ones that are in other factions. This will be decided in this room by a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u47	Please, Frost Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u48	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. I support Roman Immortal's proposal to remove the day-to-day issue of amendment to article 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council's Rules on the quantification of fractions. The point is that in 1998 I made a proposal to predict this rule -- 14 members of the faction. This proposal came out of the logic of the Electoral Law, when the faction may have 13-14 people by overcoming a four - percent barrier and using a multiple that exists at one time or another. The number 19 proposed today is nothing more than the satisfaction of the political interests of certain structures, contrary to the political interests of other structures. It seems to me that in setting up documents, decisions should be made on the basis of legal and legal logic. That is why, in order not to hold a discussion on this subject, I would like to support the Immortal proposal and remove this issue from the agenda, it is regulated by the Rules, and it is not appropriate to start a session of Parliament with the amendment of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u49	I'd like to say that for that matter. At a meeting of the Preparatory Group, my friends and I voted in favour of the proposal you made, but it did not pass. For justice's sake, I want to say that we can't make a convincing legal argument, not a figure of 14, not a figure of 19, or a figure of 19. I personally believe that we should support what you are proposing. But the Preparatory Parliamentary Group has put forward such a project. We'll make a decision by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u50	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, are there willing to share in this discussion? Although, in article 2.2, 6 The regulation states that under normal circumstances the matter is not discussed or even approved. But it's not exactly "ordinary" circumstances, because here we're proposing changes to the Rules. There are no willing to take part in the discussion, so we will now vote like this. I'm going to put to the vote on the basis of a draft ruling prepared by the Preparatory Parliamentary Group, and then we're going to decide with you about the proposals made by the various political parties. Understand? Therefore, honourable colleagues, please prepare for the vote. It is based on the vote, I stress, on the basis of the draft Supreme Council Order on the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth time before the Committees are elected. Please make up your mind. "For" - 282. Thank you. 282 votes for. The draft has been adopted as a basis. Please, did we have one amendment, or would there be any more comments on the project that we accepted as a basis? Please, I'll name those who raised their hand, but don't raise them again, so we don't have any later on what we're going to be writing down. Please, from the faction of Julia Tymoshenko's block, who? The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! We support the proposal to vote in general for the agenda by deleting the item relating to the amendment to article 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council Rules. There was an argument. This proposal is supported, I think, by the people's deputies who have made alternative projects for changes to the Rules. As respectable colleagues, when we begin discussing the changes to the Rules, we will have two days to deal only with the matter. And we also support Mr. Immortal's proposal to unite the election of the Head of the Supreme Council and the First Deputy to the sole point of choosing the Supreme Council leadership. And that's exactly the kind of amendment that we're proposing to vote on the project as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u52	Thank you. Karnauh Mikola Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u53	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 152, Poltava region]] Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! We maintain the order of the day, but with the exception of the question of the formation of MP factions. Ukraine's Socialist Party has supported a large number of voters, and people expect us to implement our program. In the absence of democratic processes, factions will be destroyed here. So we insist that this issue be considered after the factions are formed. And we're against making changes to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u54	Thank you. We're going to vote now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let us deal with you like this. I asked to raise the hands of those who would like to make suggestions. Two hands were raised. I never saw my hands again. Now Hands Are Still Raised I will now be able to speak to the coordinator of the subgroup that dealt with these issues in the Preparatory Group. Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! I have to say what I had to say during the interview. This issue was initiated by representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine. It was referred thematically to our subgroup, and it was discussed chronologically according to their design. We returned to him and made decisions. The arguments: 4 percent is not 14, is 9 people; 14 is a bonus in the Supreme Council of Ukraine calling in 1998. As a result, the discussion came to a conclusion and was proposed by the subgroup, and then by the working group that made the decision, write this formula down -- 19 -- with the least number of deputies elected by the lists of parties over 4 percent. In this convocation, it's 19. There was a suggestion to write this formula as a change to the Rules. And in the next Rules to be adopted by the Supreme Council, the universal formula that the minimum number of members of the parties that have overcome the four - percent barrier is determined by the number of members of the smallest fraction of the party that has overcome the barrier. This is how the question was considered. He's been returned several times, and our subgroup, and then the Preparatory MP group, they're proposing in this mode that we look at the issue and figure it out. I think we should leave it in order of day, especially since there is already an alternative draft decision. And by voting, we're going to determine whether we support it or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u56	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues! We will now vote on the proposals. I just want to make this clear. People’s deputy Karnauh spoke of excluding the day’s issue of MP factions and groups. It has nothing to do with what we're talking about. This is about removing the day-to-day issue of making changes to the Rules. And the question of the formation of MP factions and groups only relates to the formation of one or the other MP factions and groups. The chairman of the meeting should report this, and nothing else, as it were. So we should now consider and vote on the proposal to remove the day-to-day issue of the draft Ordinance amending article 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. For reasons of vote. Please, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u57	It's a faction of socialists. Once again, according to the procedure, Adam Ivanovich, you know very well when the issue of the agenda is voted on, then the amendments are voted first and then in general. The amendment has the following meaning: to vote in general without this paragraph. Yes, please, and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u58	Alexander Alexanderovich, we have already voted on the draft regulation as a basis, we are now voting for amendments to this project. After we have voted on the amendments, we will put to the vote as a whole. Please, Tachenko. For reasons of vote. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u59	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! I think we are wasting time on the issue that was clearly defined and approved in the 1998 Rules. This rule has been defiled during the coup of Plusch, Medvedczuk, Kravczuk, Gavrish, and others, and today we have the inadequacies that we bring to the consideration of the session of the Supreme Council. So I would like to ask that in order for Parliament to work from the first day in accordance with the law, we must reject everything and renew the Rules, which were approved and worked until January 2000. [[a Rules are the internal law of Parliament]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u60	Thank you. Let's be clear. I am voting on the proposal made by a number of political parties and blocs to remove the issue from the proposed agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I repeat: we have just voted with 282 votes in favour of adopting the draft decree as a basis. We accepted it. Suggestions made. We now vote on each proposal separately. After we vote separately, given the results of the proposals, we will vote on the project as a whole. With motive? Who? Pavlovsky? He's in charge. With a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u61	Dear Chairman! Our faction has made a proposal, and we ask that it be put to the vote in our formulation: to approve the draft decision as a whole, except for the fifth sentence above, except for the paragraph concerning the draft decree amending article 4.2.1 of the Rules. Approve in general except for this item!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u62	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich, but there were not only your suggestions, there were other suggestions concerning other points. So if we now vote on your proposal, we'll stop the way to vote on other proposals. Therefore, each of the proposals put forward will be voted on separately. I am voting on the proposal to remove from the agenda the draft Ordinance amending article 4.2.1 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. "For" - 224. The decision is not taken. Dear fellows, there was another suggestion about this: Be careful! - that we should immediately vote that the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be united on one issue. There was such an offer. Please make up your mind. "For" - 399. The decision is made. The question of the election of the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council in our day - to - day order will be united. Thus, honourable colleagues, taking into account those proposals that we have already voted on, will now vote on the approval of the draft decree as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Your Honor, please don't shout. Anyone who has comments on the reasons for the vote, who wants to make a vote, please sign up. Please fill out the list. Thank you. Dear colleagues! You see, there are 44 national MPs. If you don't mind, let's give one vote at a time from each of the six political parties and blocks. [[On Desire]] Is there no objection? Then, with your permission, I'll look at the monitor and call the names. I see who from which political party. If someone wants to pass the word on to someone else, please pass it on. Is it accepted? Then please, Turkov, follow him - Chubarov. [[Julia Timoshenko block]] [[Our Ukraine block]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u63	Dear Chairman! Do we not understand why the proposals of the national deputies are being ignored? There was a specific proposal that I, Mr. Glaucoma, made. It was intended to adopt the agenda in general, with the exception of a draft Order amending article 4.2.1 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was a specific proposal, and you didn't put it to the vote. We insist that you put this motion to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u64	Chubarov, behind him is Melniczuk. [[Our Ukraine block]] [[Socialist Party]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u65	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine"]] Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to the People's Deputy Immortal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u66	Please turn on the Immortal microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u67	"Our Ukraine." Honorable Adam Ivanovich, according to the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the proposal that excludes all others in the event of a positive vote is the first to vote. So Alexander Aleksandrovitch ’ proposal was to put the vote first, because if it was accepted, everyone else would be excluded. That's why we're proposing to vote on this proposal. Our Ukraine block will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u68	Thank you. Melniczuk. [[Socialist Party]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u69	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Chairman, I ask you to give the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u70	Please turn on the Freezing microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I repeat my proposal, which should have been put to the vote. We didn't propose to remove this item from the project. We suggested voting on the project as a whole except for this item, which is a procedurally different question. And one more thing. I have already suggested that the question of the formation of a quantity of factions is both legal and political. [[and Mikola Karnauh confirmed it as well]] And so you can't vote for factions, because then you don't know who to make deals with, who to convince and who to have with, let's say so, the matter is solved. But since we have not yet completed the political structure, it would obviously be legitimate to establish the agenda without interfering with the regulatory rules, and I therefore insist once again on the vote on the proposal to maintain the draft regulation as a whole, except for the paragraph concerning amendments to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues! From the procedure, representatives of all the political forces on the monitor spoke. So they're unrecorded. I will now give my word to those who still wish to speak from the political forces. Three made it. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u73	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Your Honor! Dear colleagues! Indeed, at the meeting of the Preparatory Group subgroup, our colleague, Michur Valérie Dmitrovitch, proposed that the number of members of one faction or another should be increased to 19. We went out, I want to explain, first of all, to put an end to the practice of cloning, multiplying the MP factions and the groups that were in the parliament of the last assembly. You will recall that instead of eight factions of eight political forces that overcame a four - percent robbery in previous elections, there were 14 factions and MPs at the end of the work of the Supreme Council of the past. But at the meeting of the party leaders that we held on May 8th, we, the Communist Party of Ukraine, the national MPs from it, supported the proposal of the Socialists to leave a valid norm of the Rules, i.e. the number of factions - 14 people. That is why we support the proposal to leave a valid rule of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u74	Carp, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! In fact, we are discussing this in a meaningful way. I think that if we talked about it and made the right decision, we would have been able to figure out a long time ago -- there are 14 or 19 factions left. And yet the subgroup that suggested this, and the working group think that we should leave it in order of day, discuss this issue and determine how to vote. [[In fact, we've already begun to discuss it.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u76	Thank you. No one insists on social democrats. Then Assadchev, and we'll determine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u77	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I'm very grateful that you know what political power I belong to, but we still don't have the political power yet and we don't know exactly who it belongs to. If you are making a record, you should write it down. And if you do not make a record, give your word as you think it is necessary. And now, essentially. You gave the floor to vote. I'm speaking out of motive. So there are two choices: either we are voting on this agenda right now, as we have it written down, because there is no proposal to delete the draft decree amending the Rules, or we are voting in the version proposed by Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz. I propose to vote in his version, because yet 224 votes are a fairly solid number of votes of the national MPs. And what I want to say is that in this order of things, I don't see where it's going to be, and I don't see if there's going to be a report from the Counting Commission. Maybe this commission isn't necessary, but we did it, and we need it to structure and report it somehow. I think it's time to find somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u78	Thank you. Thus, communication took place. Now let's put the proposal to the vote. I will be the first to put to the vote a proposal that has been made by representatives of the Socialist Party, national MPs from the Communist Party and MPs who do not belong to any political forces of the Assadchev represents the city of Kiev. Who, in order to adopt a draft decision in general, with the deletion of a paragraph that relates to the amendment to article 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, please vote. "For" - 240. 240 national deputies voted in favour. Thus, the Order on the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fourth Appeal for the Period Before the Election of the Committees is adopted in general with the deletion of the item “Project Order amending article 4.2.1 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” and the merger of the items “The Election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, “The Defence of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that we removed from the agenda the question of the draft decree amending article 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we do not consider the matter. Since no political party has submitted the necessary documents to the Bureau before this time, and first they need to be submitted to the Personnel Management, and then the Personnel Management should inform you that the formed ones or other MP factions and groups, we now have no opportunity to inform you about the factions and groups that have been created. Therefore, the Bureau will inform on this issue when a faction and a group of deputies will be formed. On what question, Roman Petrovich? Faction formation? Please, Immortal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u79	The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! You can see how difficult it is now to understand the voting process because of the fact that the factions have not been registered. Let me show you some math. We voted 256 votes for one of the questions. Before that, the membership of the Counting Commission was voted on. Subtract from 256 66 communists, you'll get 190 for JEDU! Plus Social Democrats, because we didn't vote. Divide it in half, and it turns out that we've entered the Counting Commission from the "To Yed" block. There are two representatives who, in principle, have no proportionate grounds. So that's the offer. Today, by the end of the day, factions in the Personnel Administration are registered, it seems that the documentation is for the registration and voting tomorrow in the roll-out mode. Thank you for your attention, and I'd like you to support me, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'll say it again. When we brought the issue of the formation and registration of parliamentary factions and groups into the agenda of the Preparatory Deputies Group, it was again established, in accordance with the Rules, that the purpose of the discussion was to inform the Bureau of the formation of parliamentary factions and groups. Since no MPs and groups have been formed at this time, we will deal with this issue and inform when it is ready. That's the first one. The other one. I support Roman Petrovich's proposal, and I inform you that, in fact, we insisted on asking for the original lists of MP factions and groups by May 14 first. [[And there was a letter so directed to the leaders of political parties and blocks]] I think that according to the Rules, each faction will determine, report, and then we will inform you. This question is not being considered right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's figure out what we're going to talk about. The question of the formation of MP factions and groups is not addressed because there are no MP factions and groups. If there is a need to comment on the matter, please write down. Please explain. Thirty-four national deputies were enrolled. With your permission, we'll take five minutes to get out of the procedure. Let's try to write it down right now. Volenec. Behind him is the Incorruptible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u81	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u82	Please turn on the Tymoshenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u83	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to welcome members of all the factions formed by parties and blocks that went as an alternative to power -- and this is the Communist Party, our Ukraine, the Socialist Party and the bloc that I lead -- with the fact that we, for the first time, voted for ourselves, have won 240 votes. Actually, this is the majority that people were expecting. [[Applause]] The other one. I want to put an end to all the misinformation that's going on about the factions -- no coercion, no intimidation. So I can continue to refute the chairman's statement that factions have not yet been formed. The factions are formed, you just have to accept the documents and announce these things. And on behalf of our faction, I want to support Roman the Immortal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u84	Thank you. Insomnia. After him, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u85	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 223, Kiev]] Please pass the word to Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u86	Please turn on the Assadchev microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u87	Thank you. It seems to me that right now the question of order of the day is that we have to interrupt or end our day meeting and now we're doing factions registration. It seems to me that further work will be very structured and will go in a normal parliamentary direction. So I support Roman Immortal's proposal, and I think we all need to support it, and today's plenary session ends at 2:00. And then we're going to do the registration of the official factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, Pavlovsky. Follow him, Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u89	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko's block. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that most of the documents have already been filed, so I suggest you don't drag on this question, and now there's going to be a big break, by 4:00 p.m. to prepare all the documents and at 4:00 p.m. to announce the composition of the MP factions. [[We gave them up yesterday.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, Lucenka. After him, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u91	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Deputies! Dear Chairman! I have an offer to announce a break, to release "For Jedu!" Have lunch and check in. And all the other factions, actually democratic, have already been formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u92	Please, Kirilenko. After him, Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u93	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear colleagues! I don't understand then who's against forming the MP factions now and continuing to work in the form of a structured parliament today? If there are no other suggestions, I suggest we proceed with this procedure to form MP factions. If there are other proposals, some MPs or factions feel that they have not yet formed their MP faction and offered some pauses for themselves, I would ask the representatives of such factions to speak up and explain their position. [[Maybe it's "For Ukraine's One!"or perhaps another]] Because so far the situation seems like everyone's ready to publish the faction's personal composition and start a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u94	Please, Kirilchuk. After him, the Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u95	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Perhaps you have felt that the administration of the regions has moved to the Supreme Council Hall. And they probably don't provide data on the number of deputies just factions that haven't completed the contract. I think they have the results and they can immediately submit these materials to the Bureau. We demand that we do it no later than an hour later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u96	Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! I support the proposals of our colleagues who have suggested that we make urgent material on the composition of the factions. I confirm that our faction of the Julia Timoshenko bloc leaked these materials yesterday. They're not secret, and I'm convinced that other factions democratically elected to the Supreme Council have the opportunity to submit it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there has been an exchange of thoughts. Victor Volodymyrovich, I'll give you my word, but as an exception, we don't have factions yet. Please, Medvedchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u99	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for the exception. Social-Democratic Party. [[united]] Dear colleagues! Like everyone in this room, I must be very positive about the idea of having dinner. But I'm not going to talk about the correct truths right now, which is why we came to this hall and to the Supreme Council of this calling. I'd like to remind everyone, including once again I'm addressing experienced parliamentarians. We have the Rules. Article 4.2.1, part five, states that the parliamentary groups are formed at the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to discuss the issue of the election of the Head of the Supreme Council, the creation of the organs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[fractions]] This is the issue in the agenda, which has just been approved by the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is preceded by questions about the organization of the work of the first session, the manner in which the work of the first session is presented, a report by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the third call. Let us work according to the Rules! All other proposals should be taken to the extent that they meet the rules of the current Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Before you know it, I'd like to inform the people's deputies. The question of the formation of parliamentary factions and groups was the subject of consideration by the Preparatory MP. And the Preparatory Deputies Group recommends and will make such a project as we continue to implement the agenda of our session and take a look at the organization of the work of the first session, in addition to which we propose the MP factions and groups to form in the non-plenary period, that is, without announcing an appropriate break. That's one thing. The other one. Honorable national MPs, factions and groups can be formed today only after national MPs have become national deputies. We made and signed an oath, became national deputies, and were granted the right to form MP factions and groups. Third. Each of the leaders of political parties and blocs received the necessary package of documents, forming MP factions and groups. Here's the procedure. Formed documents after factions are handed over to the Personnel Administration. The Human Resources Management prepares the necessary documents for distribution to the National Deputies: the composition of the faction, who is authorized to represent it, provides information to the presiding officer, and the presiding officer informs that this kind of MP faction has been created, in this number, the authorized representatives of this faction are such. Here's the procedure. And most importantly, the MP factions and groups, as required by the Rules, are necessary, indeed, when we approach the decision-making of the Supreme Council. If there are no MP factions and groups, we cannot deal with this issue at all in accordance with the Rules. Part of the people's deputies suggested that we take a break from the Supreme Council meeting and start forming MP factions and groups. [[And it's normal, it's regular.]] But let's make a deal then: if we're going to support the break proposal, we have to set the duration of this break, because we're going to have to take a two-hour break. I mean, I'd like us now, dear colleagues, if we accept the right proposal, to exchange thoughts, firstly, or to announce a break for the formation of MP factions and groups, and secondly, for what period to announce this break. Please sign up. Please explain. There were 52 national deputies. There's an offer to give the word once again in principle to one representative of six political parties and blocks. Is there no objection? Is there a rule? Okay, if you insist, let's do it. Please, Sandler. After him, Kravchenko. It takes five minutes to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u101	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] I give the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u102	Turn on Stoyan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u103	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. I've made an unusual point -- the faction of our Ukraine, because the faction of our Ukraine is formed, like the other factions formed, there's nothing to draw, everyone who's chosen by the lists of parties, the blocks, has factions. I suggest you take a break for 16 hours and file factions for registration, do not pull, and continue to work according to the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u104	Please, Kravchenka. Behind him is Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u105	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u106	Turn on Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u107	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Of course, you and I need to understand that if we announce a break now, nothing will be resolved. But the regulatory rule allows us to discuss all matters in a calm manner until we consider the election of the Head, the First Deputy, and the Deputy. I'd like to propose, starting at 16 hours, that we continue to discuss the projects that the working group has been working on. [[now and so on, the break foreseen by the Rules will be announced]] And when we come to the question of choosing the Head, the First Deputy and Deputy, then we will have to take a break in accordance with the Rules. So I propose, Adam Ivanovich, that after 16 hours we start discussing the projects that the working group is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, Solomon. Behind him is Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u109	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Most of us recently watched a movie called "August 44." There's such a very appropriate definition of "the moment of truth." The moment of truth has come, and we must make the right decision. And we have to start making this decision no later than 16 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, Baranowski. After him, Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u111	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. The Socialist faction supports the proposal to announce a break under the Rules by 16 hours and to assign the leaders of political parties and blocs to form the respective factions by 16 hours and then to work normally.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, Grigorovitch. Behind her is Buiko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u113	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u114	Please turn on the Klukkowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u115	The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear fellow MPs! Today, by its decisions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has twice borne witness to the fact that factions exist. The first time we've chosen a temporary Counting Commission, and the second time we've adopted a day-to-day order, which includes an announcement on the registration of factions. [[The draft decree on this has fixed representation from factions]] What is written in the Rules determines the time limit, not the time when it should be. That moment is determined by our order of the day. I have an offer. It's still gonna be a break. At 4:00 p.m., the plenary meeting is scheduled to begin with the faction announcements that have been made, and all other deputies are automatically non-fractional. And that's why we have to follow the agenda adopted by the Supreme Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u116	Thank you. So I realized that it was a non-fractional applause, that there would be a lot of them. Please, Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u117	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] I ask you to pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u118	Turn on the mic of Matthew Valentin Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u119	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I'm surprised, first of all, that this is where the members of the Preparatory MP group who discussed this issue yesterday and voted in favour of the decision that you and I have already made on the order of our day's work for today's plenary day. So once again, I return you to part five of article 4.2.1 of the Rules, which states that if MPs and factions are not formed to decide on the issue of the election of the Supreme Council’s leadership, then the chairman of the meeting announces the adjournment. Let's not go rogue, announce a lunch break, and then at 16 o'clock we'll continue our work in a constructive way, that is, we'll consider the issue of our approved agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! We spent five minutes in the field of communication. So far we're not putting anything to the vote when there's a vote, I'm going to ask you to sign up for the statement on the grounds of the vote. That's what this is about. Part five of article 4.2.1 of the Rules was mentioned here. There is a statement that information about the MP factions and groups is provided to the Secretariat no later than 16 hours before the meeting, at which it will be announced. [[And we're talking about the Secretariat of Human Resources Management, which is the Department of the Secretariat.]] If you and I are going to make arrangements to form factions during the break, the Secretariat will have 16 hours in accordance with our Rules. So no sooner than 16 hours, and not sooner than tomorrow morning's meeting, we'll be able to announce it. These are technical questions. Come on, your honors, if you don't mind, let's do it this way. We are now voting a procedural appeal to the leaders of political parties and blocs, in which, on behalf of the session, we will address the leaders of political parties and political party constituencies by 16 hours today to submit the necessary documents for the formation of factions and groups to the Secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will continue to act in accordance with the Rules. If there is no objection, I ask you to vote a procedural appeal to the leaders of political parties and blocs on request: by 16 p.m. today, submit the relevant documents to the Personnel Management. Please be supportive. "For" - 282. Thank you. 282 national MPs have spoken for us to address the leaders of political parties and blocs on behalf of the Supreme Council session. Dear colleagues! Given that there is no time to prepare such a written statement, let us consider that such a reference to the leaders of political parties and blocs has come, and I would ask them to implement it. Under the Rules, a break of up to 16 hours is announced.
