ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-07-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. Ladies and gentlemen, there were 380 national deputies registered in the hall. I'll have the factions, please. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. We continue our consideration of the issues that have been identified for a period prior to the establishment of the committees. We stopped at the election of the heads and first deputies of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you that consultations have continued yesterday and today between the leaders of the factions and those deputies who wanted to participate in these meetings. Practically, the distribution of committees, head offices, and first substitute heads has been resolved. But at the suggestion of faction leaders, factions need to be held in order to settle these issues. Then, honourable national deputies, before we announce the recess, I would like to say that today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich and Steckova Taras Stepanovich. Let us welcome them and wish them all the best. The faction meeting will be adjourned until 12:30 p.m. Please also ensure that all national deputies are present, since at 12.30 p.m. a vote will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-07-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the situation surrounding the formation of the draft decree. Specific names have already been made on the proposals of the factions of the Communist Party, the Socialist Party, the Social Democratic Party and the "One Ukraine" bloc. [[united]] Now, as you can see, we have two factions to offer: Julia Timoshenko's and our Ukraine's. Faction leaders say it takes 10 to 15 minutes. You know, the people's honourable deputies that we have on Friday until 2:00 p.m. You can continue without a vote for 15 minutes. And if the session was to continue, it would have to be voted on in the morning. Yes, perhaps honourable national MPs, I'd like your permission to continue the consultation process for, uh, 15-20 minutes. And when the time is right, we will consult. Is there no objection? I am truly grateful to you. Let's not just open the debate, please! I'm asking you to have a conversation between factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-07-m0.u3	Honorable National MPs. The factions continue to consult. So please, this consultation is about to end, and the document will be printed. The point is, you can continue for 15 minutes without a vote. Please, let's wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-07-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the document is formed, all faction leaders are signed. And now it's on registration and it's going to be multiplied. It takes about 15-20 minutes to do that. I'm asking you, Your Honor, the faction leaders have arranged for us all to have discussions here in this room right now, after this document has been handed out, so that we can look at it and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-07-m0.u5	Dear National Deputies! Please come into the session room, we'll continue our work. Dear National Deputies! We are continuing our consideration of the election of the heads of the First Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call, the establishment of a special supervisory commission on matters of privatization, the election of the head and the first deputy head of this commission and the appointment of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have in your hands a bill of decree number 1174, which is consistent with the faction leaders and accordingly with you. In accordance with the Rules for the Election of Heads of Permanent Commissions of the Supreme Council, honourable national deputies are listed on the list as a whole without being discussed by a roll-call vote. For reasons of vote, please register. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote! Please turn on the "Race" system, please make up your mind about this decision. Please vote. [[14:49:23]] For 235 For -235, please give by factions. Decision taken. I welcome on behalf of each and every one of you, the Supreme Council, the heads and the first deputies of the committee heads. Honorable national MPs need time in connection with the need to establish the composition of the committees. The faction leaders are offering a break until Tuesday at 16 p.m. I ask the heads of committees, the first deputy heads of the committee to carry out the appropriate work on the formation of a quantitative and personal composition of the committees. Thank you. The meeting shall be closed.
