ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies are invited to take up jobs and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There are 347 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues! On September 11, 2001, a terrorist act in the United States killed thousands of innocent people, including our fellow countrymen. On the anniversary of this tragedy, I ask you to honor the memory of the fallen by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues! I propose that you now consider and accept two documents: the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the anniversary of the events of September 11, 2001 in the United States, as well as the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a memorial board in New York City identifying the names of Ukrainian citizens who were victims of the tragedy of September 11, 2001. [[This is a project of two national deputies and two committees.]] [[In the context of building a common memory complex for the dead]] This project is also given to you, and it's on your hands. Dear colleagues! I ask you to vote for us to accept these two documents now. Is there no objection? This is draft Decree 2151 and draft Decree 2135. Please vote. Out of procedure, please, National Deputy Semenyuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u2	Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In order of the day’s first question is the announcement of parliamentary requests, statements, and messages.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u3	That's understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u4	I'm asking you to ask this question first, and I'd like to ask you one more request. Yesterday, at a meeting of the commission, we decided that before the report of the State Property Fund, we would vote on the commission of the Court of Auditors to carry out appropriate checks. I'm asking you to give me your word at the time of the announcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u5	Okay. Dear colleagues! I'd like to do it this way: finish this question, and then make parliamentary inquiries, statements, and follow the scenario that we have defined. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote. Please support us to accept these two documents now. Please vote. "To." 294. Decision taken. Thank you. I'm voting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the anniversary of September 11, 2001 in the United States. This is document 2151, it's given to you. As far as I can tell, there's no objection. Please vote in general. Please vote. "For" - 317. Decision taken. I am betting on the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution 2135 on the establishment of a memorial board in New York with the names of Ukrainian citizens who were victims of the tragedy on September 11, 2001. [[In the context of building a common memory complex for the dead]] Please vote in general. "For" - 324. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Ivy Ivan Stepanovich, Polishchuk Kiril Ananiyovich, Harry Vasil Georgievovich, who is now 55 years old. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Let us welcome all the nouns and wish them success and good health. Dear National Deputies! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. I'm asking the distinguished National Deputies to sign up for applications, messages, proposals, and in the meantime I'm going to announce those questions that have come to the Supreme Council Secretariat. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The question came from the MPs: Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Stretovic to the President of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the executive authorities of the Dnipropetrov region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. "For" - 191. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the President of Ukraine, which requires 226 votes. Please make up your mind. "For" - 172. The decision is not taken. Stanislava Gurenk, Valentina Matvijeva, Philip Budzigan, to the President on the inadequacy of President of Ukraine's decrees on property matters to the position of the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please make up your mind. "To" - 141. The decision is not taken. Petra Simonenka, Yulia Timoshenko, Alexander Moroz - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, regarding the non-constitutional actions taken by officials of the forces and various types of anti-State criminal elements during the preparation and conduct of the All-Ukrainian civil protest "Resurrence, Ukraine!".. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. "To" - 160. Decision taken. Igora Tarasyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financing work to eliminate the impact of the earthquake in the Ternopil region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 182. Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the order of the closure of the traffic in Kiev in connection with the passage of senior officials of the state. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. "To" - 218. Decision taken. Igora Tarasyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of a gas pipeline in Terebovlja region of Ternopil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "For" - 152. Decision taken. Sergija Sinchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Luhansk District Administration of the Ukrainian Pension Act for special merit before Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 162. Decision taken. Mikli Kravchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative situation that has arisen in the enterprises of the Novotroitsk Ordo-Government. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "For" - 152. Decision taken. Alexander Turchinova - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of a gross violation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002 I'll bet you a vote on that request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 162. Decision taken. Yuri Solomatina - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine - is once again asked about the assassination of the Kyiv City by the illegal construction authorities on the Odessa Square of the Hypermarket instead of the public center. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "To" - 107. Decision taken. Georgia Kruczkova, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Seminozhenko, on compliance with the requirements of article 35 of the Ukrainian Constitution regarding the separation of schools from the State. Please make up your mind. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. I read it the way I wrote it, though I should read it the other way around. You've got the point. "To" - 69. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Put it to the vote again? Ask Georgi Kruchchev to see the Deputy Prime Minister. Now we're going to check what Georgi Korniyovich wrote, one minute. Dear colleagues! Because of the conflict, there's a small MP's request and I'll read it. The MP's request to comply with article 35 of the Constitution of Ukraine: "Dear Volodymyr Petrovich! As reported by the media, Ukrainian President Kuchma Leonid Danilović, during a meeting with the leadership of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, supported the idea of the need for a gradual introduction of a lesson in the study of theology in schools and said, "The Church should be in school. Gradually we will do this necessarily." In this regard, I ask you, Sir Vladimir Petrovich, to report on the position taken in this regard by the Government, the Ministry of Education and Science, other executive authorities, since the President’s statement does not conform to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states in article 35 that the church and religious organizations in Ukraine are separate from the State and the school from the Church. Thank you for the answer." I'll bet you a vote on the request of the People's Deputy Kruckov. Please make up your mind. "For" - 115. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakova, Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the maintenance of sociocultural objects in the Heivoron district of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "For" - 127. Decision taken. Anatolia Løvina - to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the fact that a number of crimes have been committed by officials of the Attorney-General's Office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "To" - 134. Decision taken. Sergey Kyroyanz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the removal of violations of the construction order in Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on this MP's request. "For" - 131. Decision taken. Mikli Kravchenka is Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 15 November 2001 on the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the socio-economic consequences of mine closure. I'll bet you a vote on that request. "For" - 153. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakova - Minister of Transport of Ukraine on the problem of rail transport in the Heivoron district of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "For" - 145. Decision taken. Mikhail Dobkin, Oleg Karatumanov, Dmitry Holy, to the head of the High Council of Justice on the legality of the actions of the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Justice, Mr. Butenk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "For" - 106. Decision taken. Jury Lucenka, head of the State Committee of Liaison for refusing to provide self - interest and economic justification for the increase in tariffs for basic electrical services. I'll bet you a vote on that request. "For" - 151. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Drachewski Viktor Vasilovich is a member of the deputy faction of political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Trudova Ukraine". [[Applause]] John's Sergey Anatoliyovich is part of the People's Authority MP group. Mikola Mikolaiovich is part of the Ukrainian MP's faction. [[Applause]] Hennadija Borisovich is a member of Ukraine's Socialist Party. [[united]] [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! National deputy Semenyuk, please proceed. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u6	It's a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to refer to my fellow deputies and to you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to support the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatisation Issues in view of the fact that the Supreme Council will be considering the reports of the State Property Fund, the Securities and Stock Market Commission and the Antimonopoly Committee for 2000-2001 and, in accordance with article 6, paragraph 8, of the bill on the Court of Auditors, we request that a protocol be given to the Court of Auditors to verify the effectiveness of the management of state property in the designated bodies, including compliance with current legislation during the creation and operation of national shareholders and holding companies. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the issue of alienation in the listed companies of controlling stocks of strategic enterprises that are owned by the State and transferred to their statutory funds. In accordance with article 10 of the Privatization Act, the Special Control Commission provision should be voted as a protocol commission. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to put to the vote and ask your colleagues to support this proposal so that we can have reliable information in the session room on the issue that should actually be presented in the relevant special commission. I ask you to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u7	So I understand, Valentino Petrovna, that we will now prepare a protocol assignment and send it to the Court of Auditors. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal of National Deputy Seminouk Valentina to assign a mandate to the Court of Auditors to study compliance with current legislation in the creation and operation of state-owned national stock and holding companies, paying particular attention to the exclusion of listed companies from the control packages of strategic enterprises that belong to the State and are transferred to their statutory funds. Please vote. "For" - 195. The decision is not taken. The word for a statement from the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, is given by Matvienko Anatoly. By procedure, please Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u8	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! At the meeting of the Conciliation Council on September 9, we agreed on the holding of the meetings of the national deputies on Friday, September 13, after the end of the plenary session. Yesterday, I suggested that an additional question be put into the agenda: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies. This is related to this problem that we will discuss on Friday at the congregations. So I'd like to take a closer look at this bill today, as it stands last, and I'm sure it won't be considered that way. So I have this request: to put this bill on the table at least after the break -- at 12 o'clock, 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u9	Thank you. You mean Bill 2162?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u11	If there's no objection, we'll put him on a 12-hour review for 30 minutes. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u13	Valentino Petrovy, let's take care of the procedure. We'll find out. This isn't about asking questions. If it's about sending a request, it really is. And you said you needed most of it, most of it wasn't. Please show everyone who signed up. The procedure is the National Deputy of Assadchev. Turn on the microphone. Dear colleagues! Half an hour. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u14	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. I was a little surprised at what a totally inappropriate place in today's agenda you've put on such an important issue as the election law, especially since you know that this issue was initiated by the President of Ukraine. It seems to me that this is probably a certain view of the leadership of the Supreme Council and of the President and of his proposals. I just want to remind you that at a committee meeting yesterday, where there were many fewer deputies, this issue was debated for more than two hours. I have this request: Either we move it to the beginning today, or by Friday morning we will give careful consideration to the matter. Because to consider this question so that, I think, this is a certain disrespect for both the President's proposals and the complexity of the problem discussed in these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleague Assadchev! I'd like to inform you that the meeting schedule has been approved in the session room. I think it would be better if we asked this question after all the questions and agreed, because it's a matter of concern to everyone, and we're going to look at it until we look at it without going to work on the committee if we have to. There is no desire to serve anyone. You know, I serve the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u16	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I consider it necessary to inform you of what happened at the Ukrainian House yesterday, with the participation of the President of Ukraine, as well as some of the conclusions of yesterday's action that I was a participant in. Unfortunately, objective information not only about this but also about many of the measures that are taking place in Ukraine, we do not have objective information with you and our entire society. Yesterday's event and its coverage in the media have once again demonstrated that Ukraine is virtually completing the construction of "led democracy". This means that we have the courts, the media, political parties and public organizations, and we still have the local self-government and the Supreme Council, which was directed at yesterday's action, which was called the All-Ukrainian Assembly of Representatives of Governmental Authorities, Local Self-Governmental Authorities and the Public. Regrettably, the Supreme Council and the committee I lead do not know who defined the representation, by which principle the representation of the participants of yesterday's action was determined. Moreover, I would like to inform you that the Supreme Council has been practically ignored, and it has not taken part in the preparations. The discussion of what the President has announced, including his initiatives for political reform in our country, has not been made in the President's reports or in the speeches of all his participants. This once again testifies to what the President says and what he really does. To what was this action transformed? This action has been transformed into the fact that many of his participants have convinced the President that there is no need for reform, that we need to preserve a strong presidential state, and that we need to leave that behind, that the President has not responded positively or denied such calls. It seems to me that in general this action has been organized in order to defile, to defile, to defile the opposition. And they were called, and the leaders of the opposition were bewitched, most of them were Yushchenko, Frost, Timoshenko, Simonenko. Moreover, opposition was intimidated and the whole public was intimidated. Tikhov did not fail to say that “remember, gentlemen, who are taking protest action, who are producing cartridges in Lugansk and who have served in 1917, so be vigilant. ” And Janukovic warned that Donetsk would order not only in his own region but also in Ukraine, and he was lyingly saying that anyone who came to the action would be paid 100 dollars each. I think the honourable MPs that we should realize today that this is a demonstration of the corruption, the obesity and the unpredictability of this regime. Therefore, we call for unification and on September 16 to support the opposition and to make Ukraine a truly democratic, legal and promising European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u17	Please show me who signed up. National MP Alexeyev, Communist faction. Please. Dear colleagues! I say again, Tuesday's factions, Wednesday's Rules give us 30 minutes for requests, statements, messages and proposals from the people's deputies. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u18	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I would like to announce the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association to support the development of the domestic tourism sector. "We, the national deputies of Ukraine, recognize that the development of the country's tourism sector is one of the priorities of both economic and social, cultural and spiritual life, we consider it necessary to combine efforts with the goal of universal support for Ukrainian tourism, the creation of the necessary legislative principles to strengthen its potential, the formation of a competitive domestic tourist product, the satisfaction of Ukrainian and foreign tourists with the need for quality rest, and the provision of Ukrainian citizens' constitutional right to rest. The tourism industry today is a powerful factor in economic development in both regions and sectors, as well as in countries as a whole. The creation of hundreds of thousands of new jobs, the growth of villages and small cities, the rebirth of cultural and historical shrines, the improvement of the quality of life of citizens, the protection and rational use of natural resources, is a priority for the development of the tourist sector. Traveling tourism is one of the greatest sources of currency for many countries in the world. At the same time, creating an atmosphere of openness and hospitality that will allow millions of new tourists to be involved, to significantly fill the budgets of all levels, will strengthen Ukraine's authority in the international arena. The development of internal tourism, especially for children and young people, is an important component of the social development of Ukrainian society, the development of true patriotism, and the sense of the greatness of the country. In general, the organization of quality rest for all categories of the population is a vital part of the preservation of the gene pool of the Ukrainian nation. The implementation of the State Tourism Development Programme 2002-2010, the integrated development of tourist centres cannot be achieved without the creation of favourable legislative frameworks for modernising Ukrainian tourism infrastructure and upgrading the household, health complexes, and the development of the tourist infrastructure of international transport corridors in preparation for a new generation of highly skilled personnel. All of this requires concerted legislative and executive action at all levels. In this regard, we state that an interfractional parliamentary association has been established to support the development of the domestic tourism sector. ” We urge the distinguished national deputies to support this important initiative for the country’s development and to join in our union. I would like to say that 148 national deputies signed the application, and this is a union open to you, your esteemed colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u19	Thank you. National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u20	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Please pass the word to Nikolaenko Stanislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u21	National MP Nikolaynko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u22	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Electoral District 187, Herson District]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Our faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is concerned about all social issues and problems, the tragedy in the lives of our people and, of course, education. And by no chance, in the White Church that week, thousands of people gathered for protest to meet opposition leaders, and there were so many educators. A similar situation took place in Lviv, Kirovograd, and elsewhere. Educators are deeply concerned that a new school year has begun today, but they remain unpaid under article 57, and these are the benefits of internships and other supplements. The average wage is not indexed, public service debts are accumulated, and there is no day when the committee does not receive telegrams about the fact that vocational schools are disconnected from electricity, water, a tense situation in technical schools, and universities. In this year, under pressure and socialists and other progressive forces, there has been some way to increase the number of government - ordered colleges. However, no additional funding is available to increase government procurement. And today, there's a sharp discussion of how to pay for education. The managers of higher educational institutions say that government procurement is increasing, but there is no funding, and then they insist on increasing commercial reception. This is very damaging to our situation and, in general, to our intelligence, to the development of science, to our education in Ukraine. I would like to say that the draft of the Budget Act, which is currently being considered in the government, is of great concern to the socialists, because we've seen what's happening in our neighbors. For example, Russia plans to increase by 22 percent the cost of education, by 30 percent the cost of science, by analogy with culture, and by health care. And we're planning to cut these costs. How can a simple village teacher live today? And it is no coincidence that in the protests that will take place throughout Ukraine on September 16th, and at 15 o’clock, there will also be many teachers in Kiev in the European Square. So I think that both the government and the Supreme Council need to do everything we can to support our education, to support our children. I'm drawing the attention of the Ministry of Justice today to the complete paralysis of the executive service. There are thousands of court decisions to pay wages, but this salary is not paid. Reports are being sent to the President's Administration that the President's decree and the Wages Act are being implemented, but the wages are not coming to the people. And that's why I think we need to change the power system today, and I urge everyone to support the action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u23	National deputy of Matvienkov. He will be followed by a national deputy of Kostinuk, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u24	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Dear colleagues! All the work doesn't make sense, and you and I are all the more. The Bankruptcy Act was adopted in 1999. Regrettably, it has now become a mechanism for the use of unscrupulous businessmen. The methodology is very simple: there is a structure around the enterprise that, at space prices, produces materials, raw materials, buys the finished product for kopecks and thus drives the enterprise into the debt hole. Further, the mechanism is very simple: take this enterprise with your bare hands. To this day, if you look deeper, unfortunately, there are already specialized legal firms that will carry out “key banking” for 2-30 per cent of the amount of debt, the judicial contractor will describe to you the assets for 5 per cent, despite the fact that his good work is sometimes required for months, you will receive a manual arbitration officer for 1 per cent. By the way, it's time for us to see what this category is -- mostly people who came literally from a student bench and who are completely unaware of economic issues. As a result, dozens of examples can be cited when good enterprises have been thus demolished and thrown into a debt hole. The situation was similar to that of the Komsomol Mining Authority in the Donetsk Region. Fortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers had seen the situation in time and had decided to transfer the shares of the Komsomol ore administration to the Mariupol Metalurgical Combined Ilic. And that's where the most interesting thing started. It's probably not for Danko to destroy this business and buy expired bills. The combination collects creditors and promises them to settle debts within a month. But it wasn't here! This includes a test vessel mechanism. The non-recovery of debts is of interest to Danko, and the tested mechanism is included. The Donetsk Economic Court is initiating a lawsuit of 60,000 bracelets. At the second meeting of the firm, the Komsomol Mining Authority is now required to meet 30,000, but the process of sanction is confirmed. Neither the appeal nor the voting procedure is taken into account; it is simply the so-called process of transferring the firm to the office. I would very much like this to sound like a parliamentary request, so that they can clearly understand what is going on. There was no drying of ink on the court's decision report, as was the case for another major enterprise, the Maceev Steel Combine. And the most surprising and paradoxical is again the same firm Danko, the same managing creditor, the same methodology and the same scheme. After all, we have to put an end to what's going on today! I would very much like this request to sound like a request to the Attorney-General's Office to examine how the Komsomol Mining was exposed, how it was determined and how it was owed to Danko. The Committee would like to see how the Bankruptcy Act has worked so far, as it has been used to transfer an enterprise to a particular property for no price. And I really wanted us to finally deal with the courts, with the judges that we claim for life, and they sometimes easily dispose of government property. They are completely uninterested in what has been earned by ore management, pay people's wages, start to live properly, start to count with creditors. But nothing is taken into account - the procedure is included, the enterprise is bankrupt and the firm is transferred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u25	National Deputy Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine. He will be followed by the national deputy Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u26	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! Let me read out the invitation of the members of the Ivano-Frankov District Council to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "During the 20th century, Ukraine suffered many military conflicts. Historically, residents of the area of their time have been recruited, engaged in military service other than in the Ukrainian, Austrian, Polish, Russian, Soviet, and other armies, a large part of whom have been involved in wars or military conflicts, the liberation races for Ukraine’s independence. Today, many of the elderly who participated in the liberation wars and fought for Ukraine’s independence are outside the scope of the legislation on social protection of war veterans and are therefore socially vulnerable. This year is 60 years old from the creation of the Ukrainian rebel army, which in the years of World War II took part in the fighting to protect Ukraine from the enemies of the Ukrainian state, including the German-Fashistic invaders. The Ivano-Frankiv District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government regarding the recognition of UN-OPA as a warring party in World War II, and decided on the social protection of UN-OPA veterans at the local level. In the absence of a legislative solution to the social protection of all categories of Ukrainian war veterans who fought in various armies, in order to establish harmony and understanding between various representatives of veteran organizations in Ukraine and in accordance with article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Workers and Other Citizens of the Age of Ukraine, the Ivano-Frankiv District Council proposes to regulate the establishment of additional guarantees for the social protection of the individual category of UN-OPA citizens by providing for changes to article 6 of the Ukrainian War veterans' status, guaranteeing their social protection and recognizing that all war veterans of war and the liberation of Ukraine's freedom and independence are involved." And I would also like to add that our faction insists on putting the relevant bills into the order of the day of this session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u27	National MP Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko He will be followed by a national deputy, Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u28	Member of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to encourage you to consider, first of all, the question of the Law on the Election of Ukrainian National Deputies. After all, it's an extremely important bill, and it's better to consider it when the presence in the hall is the highest. The other one. All Ukrainian citizens have long since found that the power we now have is unable to get Ukraine out of the economic and political crisis. This authority has proved that the continuation of its existence is a continuation of the destruction of Ukraine, of lawlessness and of the abuse of our nation, which has been going on for a long time. So I urge all Ukrainian citizens to come to Kiev on September 16th, to gather at district and district centers, to come out with posters and peaceful ways to tell the authorities that it is necessary to change it. We cannot tolerate and wait for the heavenly manna; no one will come to Ukraine to order. [[No French, no German.]] If we want to make things better, our job is to change this power for the better. Now we are not sent from Moscow or, as in the past, from Warsaw or Berlin, we choose power ourselves. So it is up to us how long this power will exist when we change it. So I'd like to ask you in a peaceful way to gather around the district authorities, near the district authorities, to come to Kiev and express our desire to change power. I would like to go further to the national deputies with this information. During the communist period, Ukraine experienced three famines - in 1921-1923, in 1932-1933 and in 1946-1947. To study these tragic pages of our national history, an Association of Starvish Researchers in Ukraine was established in 1992. This association exists for membership fees, it has very limited possibilities, but it does an extremely important job. We recently celebrated the decade of this association, and the Association Council asked the finance minister and the Prime Minister to allocate the minimum costs for the organization’s existence. For a year, we ask you to allocate just 22,000 dollars to support one responsible person. I would like the honourable national deputies to consider and allocate this modest amount during the consideration of the State Budget project in order to conduct an extremely important study of the history of Ukraine, particularly the history of famineists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u29	National deputy Boki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u30	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear National Deputies! Great Ukrainian people! On September 16th, there was an all-Ukrainian civil protest "Rise, Ukraine!"the forces of truth will go forth to a peaceful battle with the forces of evil. And we, the Socialists, are calling on the entire people of Ukraine to fight the regime that has led Ukraine to a huge national disgrace and a huge national catastrophe. How does authority behave? Yesterday’s events showed that the authorities are helping us organize this action. You all saw what was done at the meeting of the heads of government and local authorities. Thank you so much to Leonid Kuchmi for releasing such agitators as the Donetsk Governor Yanukovic and the Odessa City Head Bodelan on the stand and on the television screen. It was the best agitation for our action. It is these people who are able to call upon and call upon the people to fight this regime. Because when the governor of Donetskina Yanukovic tells about a mythical 100 dollars to the shareholders and forgets how he brought 20,000 Doñecina fans to show the Kiiv clan the power of the Doña clan, the daughters know and understand who is agitating them. When Odessa’s city chief Bodelan, this three - time coup, agitates against this action, it is the best agitation for the action. On the other hand, they talk about some destabilization, but sorry, the people also understand that the situation in Ukraine cannot be called stable. If 82.7 percent of us live in hunger, if we move to the 80th place in the world at the standard of living, if we lost twice as much in the economics of Kuchma's reign as we did in the years of World War II, that's destabilization. [[It's a number from the President.]] And the people are fighting for stability in the state, and the opposition is fighting for the state, not the state. It should be said that criminals vary from power to criminality and help us by giving instructions to the forces on the provocations to take place in Kiev, Donetsk, Lugansk, and so forth. By this they expose themselves definitively because they lead to bloodshed. On the contrary, we come out with peace slogans, we come out with slogans that are good for the people, and they want us to be drawn into provocation. None of this will work, even if you make provocations, you will expose yourself to the people! There can be no other way. On behalf of a group of deputies, we put forward a draft decision by the Supreme Council on Friday television broadcasting to the leaders of the opposition, and we demand that this project be put to the vote on Thursday. I think the Supreme Council will not hide from its people and do this will. And we also demand that the Supreme Council work in plenary on September 17th, because we understand very well what provocations will be, and the Supreme Council should respond quickly to what the authorities are preparing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u31	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u32	I'm done. People of Ukraine, come out and rise!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u33	National MP Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u34	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Under pressure from the united opposition, the President has applied to move to the parliamentary-presidential republic, but today it is only a declaration. We have witnessed tens of times when the President claims something and does not keep his word. However, the word is said, and the only test of responsibility for his words may be the adoption of the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies on a proportionate basis, which he also claimed. In order to quickly adopt this law, we have to consider it now, to make an effective decision on Thursday, not moving it to the moon, but to hold a plenary session next week and to adopt the law as a whole. If the President signs the law, it will be a test of the sincerity of his words, in which, unfortunately, neither the political elite nor the people of Ukraine today do not believe. It's too bad the President of Ukraine doesn't trust the people. It is appropriate to act wisely so that when the people hear the President’s words, they understand that he will act the other way around. The draft decree for holding plenary meetings next week was introduced. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a request: please put this project to the vote on Thursday. I call on the people's deputies, to the entire people of Ukraine: come September 16 to the European square in Kiev at 3 p.m., and the construction of a new democratic Ukraine will begin. It is September 16th that the people of Ukraine will gather from all over Ukraine to say that we want to live in a democratic state, we want to change the system of power and build a power that will protect the interests of the people and care for their people. People have reason to go outside not only in Kiev, in district and district centers, because living standards are declining, people are impoverished, parents cannot help their children get higher education, people do not have basic health care in hospitals. We cannot ignore the fact that the price of bread does not go down today, even though the wheat has doubled. Thank you for your attention, and I turn to everyone: Come, change your lives for the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u35	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u36	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Allow me to make a statement by a large group of Ukrainian national deputies on the creation of the fourth interfractional parliamentary group "Ukraine-NATO" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "The Group of National Deputies of Ukraine, based on the national interests of the State, acting in the spirit of the Supreme Council's Decision on Ukraine's relationship and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Parliament's Charter on the Special Partnership between NATO and Ukraine, the State Programme for Cooperation with NATO by 2004, as well as the latest decisions of the country's leadership on the new format in the national strategy of relations with the Alliance, recognizing the importance of increasing the level of guarantees of independence, territorial integrity and non-violence of the borders of the Ukrainian State, collective resistance to threats of stability in the region, an integral part of which is the international crisis, the support of the military and security systems of the United States, the support of the military and the security of the defence, and the direct participation in the creation of the new architecture and the system of effective security and stability on the continent's borders, the maintenance of the military system, the support of the necessary for the defence and security of the defence of the defence of the defence of the defence of the United States." We invite other national MPs to join the declared group, or in any form cooperate with us in the interests of constructive interaction with one of the leading European structures that gradually transforms into a hub and a tool of global security. This is especially important now that the expansion alliance in the East has actually reached the western border of Ukraine, and our nation has taken the path of gradual rapprochement with NATO up to full participation in this union. There is no doubt that in the context of new foreign policy tasks, parliamentary measures will also increase. We hope that the work of the newly created MP group will be an effective response to the challenges of time." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. A draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation is being submitted for consideration. [[on the Special Fund for the State Budget of Ukraine]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Poshenko Petr Aleksyyovich. The committee suggests taking five minutes to report and three minutes to answer questions. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u38	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[Election District 12, Viennese Region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Bill 1318 is brought to your attention, according to which we order according to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2003 the regime for the functioning of the special fund of the State Budget. An analysis of all levels of budget implementation in 2000-2001 indicated that the volume of the budget was nearly tripled in 2001 compared to the previous year. Today we have the practice of these two years, and we can testify that the introduction of the special fund mechanism fully justified itself. We managed from the shadow, from hidden funding through non-budgetary budget funds, to bring out the real amount that budget institutions can raise to secure their own funding. At the same time, the list of sources of replenishment of the special fund is constantly expanding, and we see that the congregation for the development of grapes, gardening and hops, and the road congregation, and other sources of income, are in fact outside the general budget of the State budget, clearly linked to certain funding directions. Of course, this creates an imbalance in the financing of budget articles, especially in social matters. According to an analysis of the implementation of the 2001 State Budget, we financed between 55 and 60 percent, health care by 70 percent, education by 75 percent, and this is much lower than the national average. At the same time, the cost associated with the special fund was financed by far over 100 percent. In addition, we had numerous cases of abuse by law enforcement agencies, local administrations, who, using the mechanism of actual state racketeering, filled a special fund and actually cut out funds to ensure that we had a good life. At a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, we came to the conclusion that the special fund had carried out its mission. It already gives us a real opportunity to demonstrate what amounts of income for services, other sources of filling the special fund budget institutions can raise. And we're proposing that these costs be included in the general budget fund, and within the limits in which these institutions were funded in 2002, to fund in the budgets of the following years. In our view, this will certainly improve social justice, and it will greatly improve planning. To remind you, during the first session of the State Budget, it was found that in some cases the special fund had been rebuilt 100 times. What kind of budget planning can we even talk about? Thus, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of July 4, 2002 on the Basic Directions of Budgeting for 2003 it is envisaged to preserve the separation of the State budget of Ukraine into general and special funds and to establish a limited list of funds that have a special purpose. Thus, only foreign loans, grants, and foreign funding are proposed for the special fund. This will allow us, at the end of the year, foreign loans and grants so that they don't fold and fall into the state budget, because this is contrary to the international agreements on which this funding was granted, to transfer it to the following year. The rest of the income categories are proposed to be included in the general fund of the state budget and, by category of expenditure, to be used as the basis for the 2002 budget. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council support the bill and adopt it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u39	I'd like to ask you a question. The committee's offering to take three minutes. Let me explain. National Deputy Crook, faction of the People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u40	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[electoral district 140, Odessa region]] Dear Peter Aleksevich! We've had a conversation with you about this bill, 1318. I think you know that the port charges provided for in paragraph 10 of Part One, as well as aviation charges, are not merely related to a number of domestic laws to be amended, but relate to a number of international conventions ratified in this Hall. [[Not just in article 84 of the Code of Merchandise, as you propose.]] I would therefore like to request, and there is an appropriate decision by our committee, paragraph 7 concerning the Ukrainian Air Code, and paragraph 10 should be deleted. All the details have been discussed with you, there is this view of our committee, and I would like you to take note of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. Indeed, today this serious decision needs a comprehensive analysis, and we have had such a conversation, and we must hold serious consultations on this subject. Our bill foresees all the comings that will come. If these were port congregations, if they were services, there would be no questions, and the services would be paid voluntarily. In fact, these services lack the criteria of volunteering. However, I would not like to have a discussion in the hall. Let's vote tomorrow for the adoption of the bill in the first reading, and then we'll do a comprehensive analysis, meet up, agree on positions, and if really international conventions provide for a separate regime of port assembly operations, we'll come to an understanding and remove all the congregations from this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u42	National Deputy Masters, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u43	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[constituency 14, Viennese Region]] Peter Alexiyovich, would you please tell us that the foundation for filling up the special fund will be taken over during that period or the overhaul you were talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Yakovich! I'm sure we should take it as a basis for filling up the special fund in the 2002 budget. However, since the draft State Budget Act 2003 has not yet come to Parliament, and as the head of the budget committee, I am not yet sure whether the government has taken into account the position of the budget resolution on the special fund, although the corresponding arrangements with the minister of finance for this matter have been, it is difficult for me today to comment on what is contained in the draft State Budget Act for Ukraine for 2003. My position, as chairman of the budget committee, is that those budgetary institutions that have worked effectively and provided services that were part of the special fund should by no means be affected because there are both educational institutions and higher education institutions. Of course, the level of funding they collected in 2002 should be preserved in the 2003 State Budget Project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u45	National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u46	I'm going back to the question that Crook asked. I still want to clarify the port charges. Ukraine is a port power. It's really a favor. It is necessary to understand: the strengthening of docks, the strengthening of ports, are all at the expense of those means. These are the financials that the ports are living on today, you know? I think we need to take a very careful look at this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. I've already given an answer about how port congregations function. I have an appropriate letter from the port of Mariupol, so I understand you know that, because you're the deputy from Mariupul. In any case, where this law is not adopted, the costs that are planned for port congregations in ports should not be affected. And the level of financing of ports, given what was collected in 2002, should remain, at least it won't go down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for questioning is over. The committee proposes not to hold a discussion, but by voting on Thursday, decide on a decision on the matter. Is there no objection? Then the question is concluded, and we will vote tomorrow. Let us turn to the next question. Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on State Objective Funds. Reported to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko. And once again, he's offering this rule: 5 minutes for information to the committee head and 3 minutes for questions. If there is no objection, we continue our work. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The introduction of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on State Trust Funds is fully linked to the budget resolution that we adopted on July 4, 2002, namely the rule that the revenue and expenditure of the Pension Fund and all other State trust funds are approved by the Supreme Council as an addendum to the State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2003. How is this explained? In economic terms, the income of the Pension Fund is government finances for congregations to other state-owned trust funds. They don't voluntarily pay for these funds, but they are forced to remove, and before this removal, the whole state-owned machine is involved, and de-actually, this is a forced redistribution of the funds of the gross domestic product. Therefore, leaving the Supreme Council out of this redistribution economically, professionally, is wrong. Of course, there is a pattern of practice that is now ensuring the effective operation of the Pension Fund compared to the situation in the mid-1990s. It's kind of a natural question: why does the Supreme Council have to approve the amount of income and expenditure right now? The answer is very simple. To date, the income and expenses of the Pension Fund are approved by the government’s decree. So the government itself collects these costs, approves the amounts itself, and determines how to use them. In all the civilized countries of the world, this is Parliament's function, but with no further intervention in the Pension Fund's activities, in determining the direction of using these funds, neither the Supreme Council nor the government will carry out. [[I want to emphasize that.]] The mechanism for the use of funds remains completely unchanged, but if the amount of income approved by the Supreme Council is exceeded, then the Supreme Council will be able to determine exactly what to do with these costs: whether to target them to increase pensions to individual categories of citizens, or to make other expenditures in line with pension legislation, or to amend pension legislation. I insist that neither the new pension reform nor the order of operations will in any way affect this bill. [[which is now being discussed and implemented by the Pension Fund, and we will soon consider it in the Supreme Council.]] We had a meeting at the Federation of Professional Associations where we had the opportunity to communicate with representatives of all state-owned trust funds and funds to which insurance contributions are paid. As a result of this conversation, we have come to understand that the term used in the budget resolution and in the law -- the "Costorage of the Pension Fund" -- is not very valid because the approval of the fund provides for a different mechanism than the approval of the amount of income and expenditure. As a compromise, as the author of the bill, I propose to replace the term and to record that the Supreme Council approves only two figures -- the amount of income and expenditure of the Pension Fund and other state-owned trust funds. [[and we discussed this at the Committee on Budgets]] Thus, Ukrainian national deputies will have a real opportunity to influence the priorities of determining the expenditure of these trust funds where legislation allows. Please support this bill and continue the logic of the legislative process that we have demonstrated by voting in favour of adopting the basic directions of budgetary policy for 2003. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u50	Please sign up for a question at Dusty's. Please point it on the board. People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u51	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] It's very right that we're now looking at bills that affect budget formation. I have this question: is all the bills that have been introduced and registered for this reason already taken into account, and later, when the draft State Budget in the Supreme Council starts to be drafted, not to go back to them. For example, Ludmila and I filed a bill to simplify the payment of excise duties. We used to agree on this issue on a budget committee, because entrepreneurs themselves are asking us not to pay the Pension Fund separately, but to the State budget separately, to pay once, and we've already distributed where the funds will go. Have all these bills been reviewed? That's the kind of question I'm interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u52	Thank you for the questions, because, indeed, the issue of adopting legislative acts that will ensure the effective conduct of the budgetary process this year, I, as the head of the budget committee, have serious concerns. We have a huge debt to pay today - Parliament has to consider and determine both those bills that have been tabled by the government and those that have been submitted by the people's deputies. Unfortunately, the budget committee is responsible for these legislative acts. The legislative acts you're talking about are not just responsible for the budget committee. In view of your question, I'm asking my colleagues -- heads of committees, who have received the relevant legislative proposals -- to speed them up, and to our esteemed Head -- to put these issues on the table as a frontline to not ruin or stop the budgetary process. You can see that so far both the Conciliation Council and the Head of the Supreme Council have identified this issue as a matter of priority, and we are now considering it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u53	National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u54	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[Multi-mandatory constituency constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Peter Alexiovich! I have two questions. First. We're in the middle of breaking the law. Does this mean that we are adopting imperfect laws, including the imperfect budget code? In any case, how can we improve the effectiveness of legislative work in this regard? Or we will not be able to pass the law, as we are making amendments, and we are constantly doing so. And the second. I share your logic about the need to amend the Purpose Funds Act, including the Pension Fund, but I also have this question. You come from the fact that the Pension Fund costs are state funds. But if we go through pension reform, we're going to have non-state pension funds. What, then, can we do about it? Are we going to make corrections again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u55	I'll start with your permission to answer the second question. Transactions in non-state pension funds will have no effect on the operation of the Pension Fund, since non-state pension funds will have their own administrations. The state will have nothing to do with this, as will this bill, which we now propose to the Supreme Council for its consideration. Therefore, in order to adopt legislation on non-state pension funds, there will be no need to make appropriate changes to the legislative framework that we are currently working on. With regard to the perfection of the Budget Code and legislation, there is certainly no perfect legislation in the world. There is more perfect and less perfect. Since Ukraine is still a fairly young state, we simply have little physical experience in the work of laws under our conditions. But we can all fully appreciate that the adoption of the Budget Code was a revolutionary step, absolutely necessary. We have now worked on many of the problems contained in this budget code, and I think that the budgetary committee will certainly return to the consideration of changes and additions to the budget code after the budgetary process is completed, as we have actually a twofold experience in applying it. Some positions have come from the government regarding the amendments to the Budget Code, which are proposed to be discussed, and we have serious comments. You remember that when we discussed the implementation of the State budget, we had problems in the Budget Code and in the contingency fund, and the need for other funds — that is, today — will certainly be addressed. Both the budgetary committee and the Supreme Council will improve legislation. I completely share your position on the inefficiency of making changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u56	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u57	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] Peter Alexiovich, of course, is honorable! It's absolutely obvious that we want to do the best we can once again, and there's a suspicion that we're going to do even worse than we ever did. What I mean. We recently heard a government report on the implementation of the 2001 budget. You know, there are so many violations that you could have 50 or 60 governments retired for these violations. Our government is expensive, and it sits with an expression of optimism on its face. But let's say the little reform you're proposing impresses me deeply. But I think again that the government has now moved to manual management of the economy and the budget, and very often, even for every administration, it has already done so. So I just want to know: let's say I vote, I support this bill, but is there a political will in our biggest, or maybe the most solid committee -- the Committee on Budget Affairs -- to control the implementation of this law, or isn't it? Thank you for your brief and complete answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u58	I thank you for asking. Indeed, the problem that you have raised is extremely painful for our entire nation. And it was the budget committee at the first session in the face of, or at least in direct opposition to, the leaders of certain factions and the heads of certain committees that insisted that we urgently consider the 2001 budget report and six months of the current year. We've been given any explanation that it's impossible that the numbers are not ready, and in fact there was a very simple thing: the budget is not being implemented, the budget is not being implemented by more than 15 percent, the country has actually returned to the sad practice of manual budget management, there are numerous cases of under-purpose budget use. And the budget committee came back to this, unanimously voted on the government's draft regulation. You remember that it was introduced on the last day of the first session, but unfortunately, the Supreme Council did not make any decisions on those issues, since the physical question was not put to the vote. Regrettably, practice has confirmed the warnings made by the budget committee. And in sum, for nine months, we have the fact that these trends are being preserved, even exacerbated. I am confident that an integral part of Ukraine's 2003 State Budget Bill is the budget implementation report, and the Supreme Council will be able to decide on the government's evaluation of the implementation of the budget in the current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u59	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues! From the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice is requesting one minute of information from Deputy Secretary of State Jaremenko Oleg Stepanovich. Minister Jusko was to speak, but he appealed to the Supreme Council in connection with what is currently taking place in the Cabinet of Ministers, where the draft budget is being considered, he cannot be present. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u60	Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to say that the proposed changes that you are considering do not correspond to articles 6, 85 and 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Code of Budgets, and are contrary to the basics of Ukraine’s legislation on compulsory public social insurance. I don't want to take too much of your attention. Let me give you just one example. Insurance contributions that form the budgets of the general government social security trust funds are not and cannot be attributed to the tax system, since they are essentially not taxes. I also want to say that the management of these trust funds today is being done on a tripartite basis -- by the state, by employers and by trade unions. In a letter addressed to the Supreme Council by the Prime Minister, the position of the government on this issue is clearly set out. I would ask the honourable national deputies to consider our position when you vote for these changes on Thursday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u61	I ask the Budget Committee, together with the Ministry of Finance, to work again on this document, taking into account the proposals made by the Chief Scientific and Expert and Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council's Office, so that the agreed draft will be put to the vote on Thursday. We're done here, let's move on to the next question. Draft Law amending article 22 of the Code of Budgets. Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Sitnik Kostin Merkuriyovich, co-rapporteur - Head of the Committee on Budget Questions Poshenko Petr Aleksijovich. Constantine Mercury, how much time do you need? Three minutes, and then three minutes to ask if they will. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u62	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! I very much ask you, please, the Committee on Budgets, to ask scientists who are sitting in this room to support our changes to the Budget Code. The change is that the financing of each of the existing State Academys, the National Academy of Sciences and All Sectors, takes place in separate lines. What reasons are there for this? I think just taking care of the development of any field of science is a priority in our country. But the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering, which has been in operation for four years, clearly states: "The cost of ensuring the activities of the Academy is determined annually in the national budget of Ukraine by individual lines." Personally, I have signals that some ministries that have budgeted the appropriate academics break the law and use these funds not for science, but for other purposes. Academies report their work to the Cabinet of Ministers. They are those organizations that are governed by the State. And this may violate the self - control of the academy, which is also provided for by this law. That's why I'm asking both the budget committee and all of you to support these changes to the Budget Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u63	Thank you. Any questions for Constantine Mercuryovich? Then I'd like you to sign up. This is obviously where we have to support this project. Please point it on the board. It's written on Hinsburg, a faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u64	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 161, Sumska oblast]] Dear Constantine Mercuryovich! Yesterday, I faced the issue of financing a cardiovascular surgery institute. I talked to the director of the institute, and he said, "We don't generally finance, but we can't count the sum of the funds to the institute under the budget code." So is it included in the changes you're talking about that there's no single line funding, and the budget costs from one area to another are not allowed to be counted? What is the reason?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u65	You're absolutely right. First of all, the ministries themselves, because they're also poor and budget allocations, they're trying to use the funds that are set for science, because they're in a general boiler, you're not going to define what this is for science. The second is whether you can count from one area to another. Again, this budget code forbids it. I'm not asking the question, but if we have to, we can also make further changes to this codex.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u66	Thank you. National Deputy Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u67	Thank you. Constantine Mercuryovich! First of all, let's be clear about what you want: do you want to have a separate line in the budget for each academy, or do you want each academy to be the chief budget manager? These are completely different things. Making a single line is not such a big problem, and I think the committee can support you, but it's one of the principals of the academy. If they make all the arrangements, all creative associations will come tomorrow and ask questions about becoming chief administrators. We don't have enough numbers to number all the principals. That's the first one. And the second. How do you feel about the science funding strategy at all? Should we finance science officials, or should we fund scientific programs that could be officially approved by the government as strategic, and then the funds would not even go to maintain the institution where this program is, but to a specific laboratory or to a particular scientist working under this program? These are two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u68	First question. Until that moment, until you asked that question, I thought that a single line would necessarily provide for the arrangement of functions, i.e. a single line of funding for the academy, and then this academy is the only money manager it would receive from this single line. I think that's the right thing to do, because how can you not trust the National Academy of Sciences Presidency anymore, and any academy -- is it national, or is it agrarian, or is it medical? If we have already singled out a single line, the basic requirements of self - control require that it be managed only by the academy. There are two questions. First, we don't have enough money to spend on the budget at all, no matter how much we don't use it. Ideally, when we set up a grant system and when you, I or someone else apply for a grant, then the relevant committees consider our applications and we determine who to give the money to. But unfortunately, under specific conditions, Ukraine also has officials sitting there, where they start to pick up whose job you or mine are to pay and who you give the grant to. I already have experience both first and second and third, and so as long as I am at the head of the academy, in my opinion, there are honest and decent people who don't allow serious violations, I would still leave the funding methods that are now there. Because we'll always find ways of doing things.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u69	Question time's up. Thank you, Constantine Mercuryovich. Peter Alekseiovich - for the report. Dear colleagues, I think that someone who has not been able to ask a question will ask him a question before Dusty. Yeah, behind the same list.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have great respect for the two authors of this bill as experts and scientists and politicians. The Committee on Budgets has considered the need to amend article 22 of the Code of Budgets in a comprehensive manner and has reached the following conclusion: The National Academy of Sciences is now the principal authority of budget and problems with the National Academy of Sciences. We're trying to compare the sciences industry to the national status of the budgetary process. But there are serious differences because article 22 of the Budget Code clearly defines the composition of the chief budget administrators of all levels and the criteria for their selection. This category includes ministers, heads of government, who are involved in the formation of public policy and strategy in a particular area of social development. The Galuze Academy of Sciences, in accordance with article 15 of the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, are state scientific organizations based on state ownership, unlike the National Academy of Sciences. Because they use government property, they're government institutions, they're based within the executive branch. Of the problems raised by respectable Constantine Mercuryovich on individual lines, the budget committee is ready to compromise. We've had a discussion with Alexander Volodymyrovich, and we're ready to support your position, to provide a separate line. But let's not confuse a single line and the status of the chief budget manager. These are different things. The chief budget manager defines strategic policy, de facto gives a task in which to direct one or the other. It's perfectly natural. If a State finances research, it should have the right to make certain orders. If the branches of the Academy of Sciences are budget managers, they themselves determine at what cost and where to direct the money. Of course, this undermines state policy in the field of science. What's more, really, the chief budget manager, the National Academy of Sciences, according to its status, can make that absolutely clear. So we have another danger that, once the status of chief budget managers is given to the industry, I don't see why we can't give the head budget manager status to the National University as an institution that's important, experienced, independent, and others. Today, we are tremendously disintegrating the status of the chief budget officer, which will have a negative impact on the budgetary process. So, the budget committee suggests, unfortunately, that your proposals be rejected, but in the drafting process of the State Budget Act 2003, take into account the area of the Academy of Sciences in a separate line, if that solves the issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u71	Thank you. Questions to Peter Alexiovich. Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u72	Dear Peter Alexiovich! We now have only six State Academys, which are self-governing organizations, which are state organizations that work in the most priority fields of science and technology. And so today, when we're subordinating an academy and an academy, a collective body, going to the minister to put some of their money in there, it's going to have a very big, very, very dramatic effect. For example, in the Herson region is the Biosphere National Reserve of Ascania Nova. In order for the funds to get there, they need to come to Minagroprom, they need to be persuaded by Minagroprom, and only then do they get to the academy. I don't think we're going to destroy the budget system if only six of our national academies are allowed to be money managers and have separate lines. It's perfectly normal and smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u73	I thank you for the questions, but we are again trying to ask a question from the bottom of our heads. First of all, you won't have to go to the Minister's office or the head of the district agroprom, if the budget that we're going to take with you is fully implemented if it's real. I want to remind you that literally in 2000 all budget assignments were funded. And that's why, I think, this article about the funding procedure has nothing to do with it. As far as the definition of public policy is concerned, today we have some ministries doing their job. They should be involved in the development of public policy in one area or another, and the industry of the academy should implement this policy in accordance with the budgeting provided by the state budget. Dear colleagues! I insist once again, it's an extremely principled question. If we write a branch academy as chief budget manager, the state loses any opportunity to apply for scientific research, and in fact these self-governing organizations work for themselves at the expense of taxpayers. With all due respect to the heads of all the industry colleges, I don't think that's gonna be a professional approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u74	Thank you. Who else insists on the question? The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u75	Dear Peter Alexiovich! I think we've come up with a very interesting topic, and that, obviously, with this kind of budget poverty, it would be better to finance some kind of scientific direction, not some kind of science official. I think we should really, really apologize very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very respectable man, Mr. Sitnik, because in that case, let's say, and I can ask the question that the Writer's Society also has not only a single line, but also an orderly. Obviously, this is impossible. I have a question. Peter Alexiyovich, we're always talking about little things, bits and pieces. Does the Committee on Budget Affairs have the political will to put everything in this office, as you say, from your head to your feet: to build a budget the way it is built by the whole world, to the bottom, and when will it be? I think this Supreme Council is quite ready for this kind of decision, but someone has to initiate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u76	I thank you, Reverend Vladimir Alexandrovich, for your question and for your position. By the way, it's a totally artificial position, I don't see what the Community of Writers means today is lower than the Sectoral Academy of Sciences. Yes, I wouldn't want to be a judge at this point, but I'm sure the issue of allocating funds in a single line will protect the academy industry from the abolition of ministerial officials. And I think this problem will be a guaranteed solution. As head of the budget committee, I will certainly offer and protect individual lines for the industry and professionally, and out of respect for the esteemed colleague of Sitnik. With regard to the proposals to be made by the Committee on Budgets. The Budget Committee has a subcommittee on the development of budgetary legislation. And immediately after the end of the budget process, the budget committee will implement the work of this subcommittee and the need for a more rigorous implementation of the programming principle in the planning of budgetary expenditure and budgetary allocations, and on the improvement of the budget code and budgetary legislation, and on the reform of the budgetary system, so that budgets start building from place to place, from territory, and the budgetary process is completed in the Supreme Council by adopting the state budget. Thank you for your absolutely principled and right position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u77	National Deputy Hinzburg, your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u78	Dear Peter Alexiovich! I may not be a subject, but I'm worried about that. I did it all day yesterday. If the institution, in particular the Amos Institute, is underfunded, it needs money. I have a lot of children there who need surgery, and the area under the Budget Code can't count the money for treatment. So what's the reason? Is that another question or is it today?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u79	I thank you for asking. This question has nothing to do with the changes to article 22 of the Codex Budget. If you come to me so that you don't keep the hall, I'll advise you how to solve this question that you were dealing with all day yesterday. Although there are no limits to the resolution of this issue, neither the Budget Code nor the budget of 2002. [[It's just for a stenographer.]] Colleagues suggest, also, that they confirm my point of view that they can count. It's the bureaucrats who just let you go around. We're going to help solve this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u80	National Deputy Shevchuk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u81	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, your arguments are convincing and understandable. What is surprising is the motive behind the drafters of this bill. The motive is that individual ministerial officials don't give money to finance science. There seem to be five such ministries. Are you sure about the ministry, and what kind of officials are we talking about? Then they can be influenced in a different way than to change legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u82	The problem is that today, under 15 percent underfunding, in fact, all the sector ministers on which funding depends will be forced to underfinance science. I'm saying once again that the recipe for this in a single budget should be real and non-deficit. Dear colleagues! I urge you: let's take a real budget that has to be implemented by 100 percent, and then if you have a single line written down by the "branch academy of science," there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u83	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Two men signed up for the performance. One refused. There's only one national MP left.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! I think there is no doubt in either of us that we need to improve the financing of science. Of course, there is a need to increase funds, and the funding mechanism itself needs to be improved. Without science, there is no future in the economy, in society, it is said to be undeniable truths. Regarding a specific proposal to Article 22 of the Budget Code. I share that point of view that we need to support the proposal to allocate a separate line of funding to the industry to protect them from the seductive redistribution of the funds allocated to these academics and so insufficient. But there is a need to distinguish between a single line and a principal. This right over here is the point of the collision of the position that we've just felt when we're discussing this issue. I'm dividing the point of view by a single line, but I don't want to make them principal. We can't go the way of increasing the number of principals. On the contrary, it is necessary to reduce the number of chief budget administrators to build appropriate policies through the principals, with these costs, to build science management and science financing policies. So I think I need to support the funding proposal for a single line, not go the way of increasing the number of principals. Taking this opportunity, I would like to touch on two conceptual issues that are of general importance not only to this particular issue. First of all, it's a matter of funding strategy. It's because of the lack of resolution of strategic funding issues in general, and science in particular, that we have a lot of problems that we constantly encounter. And so if we want to solve individual issues without deciding the generals, it's known that it doesn't lead to success. So I'm proposing to the budgetary committee and the Supreme Council as a whole, the Ministry of Finance, the government to focus on funding strategies, to develop such a strategy. And then, I think, the issues will be solved much better, including the science funding strategy. And the second question is about legislation. We need to overcome the tambourine in legislative activities. If I was asked what is the main disadvantage of the Supreme Council's legislative activity, I would say, the legislative sumbor. So we work all the time to put out forest fires. The fire started -- we throw ourselves in there, we patch up legislation, and again, it's because we don't have the principles of economic and social policy, developed jointly by Parliament and the government, approved by Parliament, within which we would draw up codes, laws, and not through the constant permanent application of legislation. So I think we need to focus on funding strategies and overcome the legislative umbrella. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u85	Thank you. It's a closing statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u86	Dear National Deputies! Highly esteemed Peter Alexiovich! I want compromise. God is with him, with orders, but according to the law of science, I ask you to make these changes to the budget code, to introduce this rule, a separate line for each branch of the academy. And you have to accept that. I'm asking you to do it tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u87	Thank you. Deputy Secretary of State Jaremenko Alexander Stepanovic. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! So I'm going to literally stop at the three thesaurus that apply to this bill. Thesis first. Article 22 of the Code of Budget does not need to be amended, given that the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering of Ukraine is a national scientific organization based on state ownership. And according to part six of article 15 of this law, the Academy is ordering public authorities to develop the principles of state, scientific and technical policy, to conduct scientific and technical expertise, to design national decisions and programmes. So there must be an authority of state that will determine this policy. In our view, these are appropriate ministries. Another thesis. In the 2003 draft budget, which is already under consideration in the Cabinet of Ministers, there are separate lines of expenditure for the relevant area of the Academy of Sciences. And according to our budget legislation, they are responsible contractors of these programs. And the third is about specific funding. Indeed, when a real budget is adopted and implemented, there will be no problem of financing expenditure in the sciences and science sectors, as the ministry cannot shift expenditure between programs. Such changes, according to current legislation, are an exceptional prerogative of the Supreme Council. As a result, we cannot support this bill to amend article 22 of the Code of Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u89	Dear fellow Members, the word for replete is given to the MP of the Road. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u90	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[electoral district 213, Kiev]] Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The thing is, I'm co-author of this bill, we've introduced it together with respectable Constantine Mercuryovich. I didn't quite understand the speech of a respectable academic and didn't film the bill. Please make up your mind about this. One point. When it comes to democratization, we're all very fast, we're voting and so on. This is exactly the specific way back to the real self-government of the Academy of Sciences. And the solution to the budget issue, not to mention the increase in funding, is a real return to the real self-government of the academy. This is democratization, not on the street, but through legislation. I am not filming this bill, and I ask tomorrow, if possible, to put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let us conclude our consideration of this matter. I think there's a very bold statement from the deputy secretary's mouth that when there's a real budget, it's enough to fund the industry's academics. The same can be said of other aspects of our lives. The main and principled question for today is that science will get what it has to get, and then we will consider how to divide it. We will take a decision on this matter tomorrow in the vote. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! We're continuing our work. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Rapporteur-in-chief of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Komar Mikola Stepanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u93	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[constituency 51, Donetsk Region]] Dear colleagues! I will give you a few facts to understand why this draft law amending the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. Article 35 of the current law does not allow MPs to implement the decision to grant monetary compensation, nor to obtain a service home, nor does it have the standard of granting permanent use to members of parliament. The draft law proposes that the legislative provisions of the Ukrainian Housing Code should be extended to members of the national parliament, i.e. the MP, who has dual status, has the right to enjoy the right to permanent housing. That's the first one. The other one. The deputy takes on a permanent job at the Supreme Council, and he has to get a residence warrant in the Supreme Council. These are the two changes we need to unlock today 19 million dollars that can't be used because, with the passing of the law last year, no MP was compensated. Why? Because of this, 40 percent of the taxes will be kept immediately. We have not been able to improve housing conditions for those who have already received housing in Kiev, but we need to improve housing conditions now. For example, the deputy received a two - room apartment, but the family’s condition changed, and the need for a three - room apartment is no longer available. The proposed changes to the law will allow some 80 deputies to provide housing for these 19 million dollars in the current year. Amendments to the law were discussed at a meeting of the Rules Committee, and they were supported by the Committee. There is guidance from the Chief Scientific Administration, the Administration of Affairs, that the adoption of the law does not require additional budget costs. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u94	Any questions to the reporter? Please sign up. Bondarenko Viktor Dmitrovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u95	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[electoral district 219, Kiev]] Dear reporter! You said that some 80 deputies would be able to improve their living conditions. I would like to ask: What about those who have already made such an application? In the summer, I received a letter from the chairman of the committee asking me to determine whether I wanted to improve my living conditions or not. Well, for example, I wasn't determined, so maybe I'm not the only one. The MPs will be able to ask later, will this issue be resolved only this year for this call? Could there be a situation in the following year when some have to ask a similar question?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u96	Proposals for amendments to the law were prepared by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council with such a reckoning that it would always work, not as it had done in the past, when the matter had been resolved only for the deputies of the vocation. [[You know.]] Thus, these changes will permanently resolve the issue, i.e. the act of article 46 of the Housing Code in connection with his being elected, and the act of the Regulations on the Provision of Living Presences to Ukrainian National Deputies in connection with his continuing work in the Supreme Council. Any more questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u97	People's MP, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u98	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Volodymyr Mikolaiovich! I would like to point out that you have put the issue of amending the Law on the Status of the National MP of Ukraine under consideration, and there is no meeting schedule for this time. At the same time, the secretarial staff told us that the bill should be considered after the break. [[Members of Parliament who are preparing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of National Deputies]] I want you to understand that if you intend not to consider tomorrow's bill on election of national deputies, but to move on to Friday, the work of the Supreme Council will be ruined tomorrow. [[that means - for an indefinite term]] So I ask that you put to the vote the draft laws on the election of national MPs immediately after considering this issue. This is a requirement of three factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! I'll be honest with you: I don't need to be intimidated by blocking the work of the Supreme Council! You're going to block -- I'm going to call it a break and let the press know. That's the first one. The other one. I don't take anything from what the secretariat tells you. There is the Supreme Council, and we voted in favour of the meeting schedule for this week. Third. If you want to view and accept this document from the jump, you don't have to attack. I suggest we work today until we consider all the bills. If you vote, don't you agree, I'm willing to work with you at least until 1 2 p.m. Please don't dictate, I'll do everything clearly, and when I can, I'm going on smart compromises. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, you decided that documents would be considered in such a sequence, and you didn't have to blame me. Any questions to the reporter? None. Who wants to make this point? Dear colleagues! We have completed our consideration of the matter, and the decision will be made tomorrow. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Judicial Act. [[on the creation deadlines for new institutions]] Dear colleagues! Did everyone come into the session room? Please invite all national deputies to the session room. I would like to place my vote on the proposal of the national deputy, Matviyenko, the national deputy of the country, the national deputy of Rudzikowski, to begin a review of the laws on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. Please make up your mind. "For" - 153. The decision is not taken. You are being reviewed by a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u100	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, indeed, in article 3.2. 3 The Rules state: "The decisions on procedural matters shall be taken by a majority of the votes of the deputies who have voted except in the cases expressly mentioned in the Rules and Laws." Although the Supreme Council of 8 February 2000 has amended the Rules that the decision is taken by a majority of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition, it states: "except for the cases provided for by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine." That's why there is such a conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I would like once again to read the Supreme Council's Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council Rules of 8 February 2000: "The decisions of the Supreme Council on procedural and organizational matters are taken by a majority of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in addition to the cases provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine." Everybody happy? Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Judicial Act. [[on the creation deadlines for new institutions]] Reported to Deputy Secretary of State Jaremenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to the Court of Justice Act has been developed by the Ministry of Finance with a view to setting deadlines for the implementation of the Act, taking into account the financial possibilities of the State Budget for 2002. The Ukrainian Courtship Act of February 7, 2002, became effective and effective as of June 1, 2002, and the costs of maintaining the newly created courts could not be provided for in the 2002 State Budget Project. In the State Budget for 2002, the approved expenditure for judicial reform was projected only to increase the number of courts of general jurisdiction. The law provides for the establishment of a six - month period after it takes effect at the Court of Appeal of Ukraine, the Court of Cassation of Ukraine. In addition, a system of administrative courts must be established within three years. The Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice propose to create the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine in 2002. According to the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice, the need for additional State budget allocations for these purposes is almost 77 million dollars. Since the State budget for the current year did not provide for the implementation of this law, the Ministry of Finance proposes to postpone the dates for the establishment of the designated courts to 2003 and to provide for the corresponding funds in the State budget. [[You know the law was approved last December.]] I want to remind you that this is the Court of Appeal and Court of Cassation that we propose to create by April 1, 2003. The formation of the system of administrative courts is proposed to be implemented as provided by law since 2003. With regard to the State Judicial Administration, you know that it has already been created and appointed its director. In our view, the adoption of amendments to this law will allow us to determine in the 2003 State Budget the costs necessary for the proper implementation of this law. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up so we don't have to discuss it later. Please put the information on the board. National Deputy Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u104	Thank you. I was quickly given the floor, so I couldn’t see all the budget reports. However, I guarantee that in the 2002 budget, the Justice Ministry section has set up 80 million dollars for judicial reform. [[Maybe I made a little mistake.]] The Committee on Budgets predicted that such a law would be adopted, and the funds would be provided there. We've been discussing this at a committee meeting and we've come to the conclusion that these 80 million dollars should now be taken to the Ministry of Justice because they were scheduled for judicial reform, and we have to put new funds into the new budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u105	I've already said in my statement that these funds were designed to increase the number of courts of general jurisdiction. I would also like to remind you that the State Court Administration has been set up to direct these funds to this very purpose. So you're just saying, there's money. Anything else I've talked about, there's no budget for the current year, so we're asking you to set specific deadlines so that it's all provided by financial resources and entered into the terms that we're proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u106	National MP Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u107	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to draw the attention of the Governing Council to the fact that, in the agenda of the day, something has been pointed out that this is a parliamentary bill, whereas this is a government bill. [[It's just a remark.]] I want to ask the representative of the Ministry of Finance: what kind of money does it take to put into the budget to take action under the new Law on the Judiciary? What are some options? Is it not possible that in the following year the Ministry of Finance will say again that the allocated funds are not sufficient and that is why something else needs to be put on hold? How long, then, does it take to meet the requirements of the new Law on the Courtship in full?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u108	To put this law into effect in the terms that we propose for 2003, according to the Ministry of Finance, it takes 80 million dollars, and according to the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court, that amount is 20 million more.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u109	Any more questions? None. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to report to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy of the People's MP Musiyaki Viktor Lavrentiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u110	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Legal Policy considered a project introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, which has now been reported. We have drawn a few conclusions that, in my opinion, confirm that the Cabinet of Ministers is actually proposing that we stop judicial reform. And the arguments that we just heard are very interesting in terms of the facts of real life. For example, the budget did not provide for measures to implement the Law on Sudokustry in Ukraine. But there's a line in the budget that says, "Justice reform." [[I agree with Valery Mikhailovich Assadchev and the name of this figure is 90 million 229 thousand 600 dollars.]] So it's not for the judicial administration. And here's an interesting situation. There is a bill on the transfer of all the deadlines for the introduction of the law, and at the same time 29 August, the President orders the establishment of a judicial administration. [[It was June 6th.]] The Cabinet of Ministers thinks there is no funds, and the Court of Justice, the Court of Appeal, the Court of Cassation must be set up later, in the following year, and the President says that it is possible to create and issue an order for the creation of a judicial administration. What does this indicate? In addition, there were some strange figures -- 80 million dollars required by the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice. The Supreme Court gave us his calculations, and it turns out that all measures to enforce the Sudokustide Act require about 77 million dollars. He proposes that this law be put into effect in stages, and for this year he asks 29 million 290,000,800 dollars. Before coming here, I spoke to the presiding officer of the Supreme Court, and he said that only about 20 million were needed because a number of measures had already been taken. [[collection of premises, technology, etc.]] So our government, in its 29th May decision on the first steps to implement the Ukrainian Judicial Act, identified the first task of making these changes to the law. Therefore, the Committee on Legal Policy considers it. First. This bill must be rejected as one that stops judicial reform, which is totally unacceptable. The other one. Invite the Cabinet of Ministers to submit to the Supreme Council all financial calculations on the state of implementation of the Ukrainian Judicial Act and generally on the implementation of judicial reform. [[And by the way, they weren't applied to this bill.]] We would also like to ask the Supreme Council to hold parliamentary hearings this year on the state of implementation of judicial reform. So much so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to pay special attention and study everything thoroughly. We believe that the suspension of judicial reform will have a negative impact on the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms in general, so we propose to take such a decision by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u111	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Please explain the list. Five minutes for questions and answers. Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u112	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] The faction of the People's Democratic Party. At the meeting of the Committee of Budgets, a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers was considered. Our committee's position was that the bill should not be considered, it should be rejected. I'd like to make some clarifications. More than 90 million dollars were allocated for the 2002 judicial reform in line with the budget proposed by the Budget Committee of the previous call. Another question is that this money for judicial reform has not really been received. That's why when we create the budget next year, we would like to write this position down with a single line, and if we don't refer to protected expenditure, then at least clearly determine which mechanism will be financed by judicial reform. Funding needs to be done proportionately during the first, second, third and fourth quarters so that we do not need the funds needed at the beginning of the year to be funded only in December or at all in the amount of expenditure that should not be financed due to a lack of budgetary resources. So would you support the profile committee's proposal for a special article in the budget that would determine how to fund judicial reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u113	Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to stress once again that the 2002 budget now has the "Justice Reform" line. Of course, you and I, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court, will be working on all the funding positions for the following year. I'm happy that we can already talk about our understanding of the need to ensure the implementation of judicial reform next year through financial means. I want to remind you that there are three branches of authority: the legislature, the executive, the court. Now it's about one of them. We have long talked about the need for all branches of government to be funded proportionally: if 60 percent are provided by the executive and the legislative branch, 60 percent should also be provided by the judicial branch. We should be looking at this ratio right now, but there's no basis for a bill from Kabmin, so I can't even tell you what the level of security is right now. And the offer is totally acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u114	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the national deputy Yavorowski, the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u115	Dear colleague! You and I are increasingly convinced that the branches of power in Ukraine are designed to be tilted and that certain people can extract the best fruits for themselves. We have reported to the Council of Europe that the judicial reform in Ukraine has already gone and is going to all couples. As she goes, we see you. In general, I don't think that if the President's decree was not to create a judicial administration, the judicial administration would not have been created. Because of what you think, would we really need to figure out where 79 million dollars were budgeted for this reform?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u116	Ninety.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u117	Ninety, even more. Are they so devoured by this court administration at a time when we do not have the Court of Cassation or the Court of Appeal and have not yet formed this entire branch of power? So what do we do? Perhaps we should postpone this law and find out where the money allocated from our pitiful Ukrainian budget for judicial reform has gone? What do you think? What's your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u118	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Alexanderovich. In reporting on our committee's draft decision, I pointed out that one of the points we're proposing is that the Cabinet of Ministers give us all the calculations on what amount was allocated in the budget, where and what costs went so that we can see what was done, what was provided from a financial point of view. [[They've given us a project that's unaccounted for.]] As far as the court administration is concerned. What could she do there, as you say, to swallow, when only August 29 was created and there is only the head of this administration?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u119	National MP Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u120	The faction of our Ukraine. The national movement of Ukraine. Dear Victor Lavrentiovich! Please tell me, doesn't it seem to you that trying to move the financing of this issue to the next year is simply an attempt to sequester a budget that is known how it is being implemented and has very serious problems with a deficit that is not foreseen by the budget law? That's the first one. The other one. Financing is the only problem that today is halting the implementation of judicial reform, is there any other brake that also stops this process? [[Organisational, Legislative or Other]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u121	In my opinion, the idea that this is the beginning of a kind of budget sequestration is not justified, because it's essentially a reduction in expenditure. I didn't want to talk about it, but since you asked me that question, I'll say that. I was impressed by the basis of the bill. Talking about spending money on judicial reform would have a negative impact on social welfare. The Supreme Court has given us this information: you can change the State Budget Act 2002 on the distribution of economics. [[He started looking for the source himself.]] In particular, the Central Election Commission saved some 30 million dollars. This sum can be transferred to judicial reform, but I don't want to talk about it as a reality. Let the Ministry of Finance decide for themselves. There's one more moment. You know that the creation of the Court of Appeal or all the other elements of the court system is in itself an extremely important task. But the Administrative Court must also be created. This court should consider matters related to the making of decisions by appropriate authorities, self - government bodies, and appropriate officials. So the Administrative Court is a body that will deal with all complaints about the actions of authorities and self-government. Do you understand what that means? Special Court! And there's no stopping the process of creating such a court. Of course, there are other problems — organizational, material. Do you know where the courts are? I don't want to talk about it anymore. I think that this issue needs to be devoted to parliamentary hearings and this needs to be specifically discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u122	Thank you. National Deputy Assadchev. Question time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Not as many questions as the information. The code 36010060 in the Justice Ministry is 90 million 229 thousand 600 dollars, of which, according to July, 11 million 785 thousand 305 dollars are spent. I have a specific offer. When the government introduces the draft budget, there will be a report by the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the current budget. I propose that the Budget Committee prepare calculations on how much it takes to complete the judicial reform this year. I don't think 90 million is necessary anymore. You've given an absolutely correct political assessment of the situation: it's the government's fault that failed, and I think that extra money will have to be recorded and directed for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u124	I think we're going to prepare a protocol commission for our budget committee to work with the Legal Policy Committee. Thank you. He asks for the words of the acting Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Vladimir Sergiyyovich Stefanyuk. How much time do you need? Three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u125	Acting Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! It has been eight months since the adoption of the Sudokustide Act, four months since its entry into force. During this time, the Cabinet of Ministers passed a decision approving the plan of arrangements for the implementation of this law, the President's decree to establish the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine was adopted in August and the Head of the State Judicial Administration was appointed. If we suspend the Act on the Judiciary, it is suggested that the State Court Administration will be able to work as well. You know that at this meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers today, a draft budget for the following year is being considered, which will take place on September 15th, in the Supreme Council. The Head of the State Judicial Administration and the State Court Administration are the main funds managers. Who will prepare, protect, represent, and justify expenditures for 2003? And they're moving it into effect in July. This proposal is all alogism. Next. Since June 1, Ukrainian citizens from the most important issues and legal cases that have been dealt with by district courts have been referred to the higher courts. The higher courts are considering these issues today, but there is nowhere for citizens to charge these decisions because there is no Court of Appeal. Today, citizens are virtually deprived of the right to charge these decisions. This applies to both military and civil matters. We can't let that happen. For a while, people have endured, but they still can't -- it's just going to be a gross violation of both the law and the Constitution. One more. Today, as you know, and we've talked a lot about it, the Supreme Court of Ukraine is overloaded, it's looking at 30,000 cases, about 50 cases a day in a judge's trial. Ladies and gentlemen, you have an excellent understanding of what it is like to be given such an effort. And we're serving as a cassation court. But the number of judges available, we can't properly perform these functions and consider the vast number of cases that naturally have to go to the court of cassation. So we need to create it, as prescribed in the law. And finally. There is no doubt that January 1st will be budgeted. You're going to approve it, and it's going to be this cost. This will be from January 1st, and the project proposes to translate the introduction of this law and its funding into June, July, and so on. And the right thing was, the Supreme Court started looking for funds, not Minfin, and the funds we found, 80 million of them are on the Central Electoral Commission that analyzed. We're asking from here, not 70, but 20 million, or less now. The Ministry of Finance has made a proposal to sequester this budget line, which provides for judicial reform, and to remove 25 million dollars. I think that some part of this free money can be transferred to the creation of an appeal, a case, a higher administrative court and a judicial administration. I think this proposal is qualitatively different from that project that was rejected by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we closing the discussion? The decision will take place tomorrow. The draft Law amending articles 2435, 24315 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code is being submitted to your consideration. This is a document for 1179. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich. It's offered for the report -- 10 minutes, the answer to the reporter's question -- five minutes, for discussion, for decision-making -- five minutes, just 20 minutes. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u127	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposed to you is the echo of the last election campaign we participated in. In the campaign process, we were able to see over and over again the imperfections of the rule of law that governed the electoral process. These imperfections and gaps in legislation have led to the impossibility of citizens of the constitutional right to choose and be elected to local self - government bodies, the Supreme Council. Often they became a defenseless tool in fighting their opponents. The point of the bill being considered is yes. According to article 21 of the Constitution, all people are free and equal in dignity and rights. Article 55 of the Constitution gives a person and a citizen the right to defend his rights and freedoms in court, as well as the right to be accused in the courts of decisions, actions or omissions of public authorities, local self - government, officials and officials. It is to develop the provisions of part one of article 55 of the Constitution of Ukraine in article 12 of the Ukrainian Court of Justice Act that the parties to the trial and other persons in the cases and procedures provided for by the procedural law are entitled to appeal and to appeal against a court decision. Article 129 of the Constitution establishes that one of these principles is the right to a cassation and appeal of court decisions. Regrettably, the standards contained in articles 2435 and 24315 of the current Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine regarding the handling of complaints about decisions and actions of the territorial, district election committee on the election of deputies and heads of rural, rural, urban, district, district councils and the annulment of decisions of the electoral commission and complaints of decisions, actions or omissions relating to the election of Ukrainian national deputies in general deprive citizens of their right to appeal and appeal. [[territorial]] The purpose of the bill is to eliminate the contradictions between the articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, the current legislation of Ukraine and the Civil Procedure Code by granting citizens the right to appeal and cassation in case of urgent need. The adoption of the bill does not require additional costs from the state budget. Of course, in preparing this bill, we understood that he was only laying the basic groundwork for dealing with this issue and not resolving the issue in full, because in order to fully resolve these relations, we would still need to amend the electoral law that might be under consideration by the Supreme Council today. With regard to the content of the proposed changes, I would like to draw the attention of the national deputies to the fact that a technical error has been stolen in the second part of article 24315 and this part should be set out in the following wording: Delete the last sentence of article 24315. It says that the decisions of the courts that deal with the first instance of complaints are not admissible. You can give a lot of examples of the court-martials that each national MP or largely national MPs who have not reached this hall, but I will not do so, though many are. I propose and ask the people's deputies to support the proposed bill. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Is that clear? If you have any questions, please sign in. Please point it on the board. National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u129	Your Honourable Rapporteur, I understand your intention to resolve the problem on this side. However, I want to give you examples of the opposite: when a deputy wins a campaign in the district and meets with the fibers that his opponents deliberately set up, referring to certain articles, to certain letters of the law, the fibers thereby ignoring the views of voters. And what is the attitude of the electorate when the decisions of the courts in such a sequence cancel the election results and thus violate the will of those people who have come and voted? Because I don't think you're going to say that we're going to be completely, so to speak, in the situation that was in the election. How do you feel about such acts of judgment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u130	Thank you for asking. The cases you mentioned took place during the elections. But at the same time, the Constitution and, as I have already said, a number of other laws provide for the right of every citizen to ensure an appeal and a cascading charge of his violated rights. Therefore, in preparing this bill, we tried to bring certain requirements into line with the Constitution. Of course, no one guarantees that appeals and cassation agencies will make a balanced and legal decision. Numerous examples of both appeals and cassation agencies have made decisions that, to put it mildly, conflict with the requirements of current legislation. But we still have to go in the direction of creating such a legal field as is provided for in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u131	National MP Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u132	The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. My dear reporter, I think that from the questions asked by my colleague Matvienkov, it also turns out that it is very bad that sometimes the courts take the right to determine the outcome of the elections definitively instead of the electorate, and this decision cannot be charged either in an appeal or in a cassational order. That's where the problem is. But please tell me, do you not think that simply removing the relevant provisions of the Civil Procedure Code does not solve the problem until the end because the existing terms of appeal and appeal are far beyond the electoral process? How do you plan to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u133	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich, for asking. As I said before, making the proposed changes does not fully address the issue. As you recall, article 29 of the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies provided for a procedure for the prosecution of decisions made by electoral committees in the respective institutions. And I think that when we work on the new Law on Elections of People's Deputies, we need to set up a procedure to deal with appeals and cassation. I understand that there is a time limit in law that does not allow the procedure to be implemented on appeal and cassation provided for by law, because the elections are ending, and this process is being extended for quite some time. So I think this can and should be written in the new Law on the Election of National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u134	National Deputy Oneschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u135	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] The faction of the PPU parties and the Hard Ukraine. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Your Honor, I would like to draw your attention to the last question that my colleague, Mr. Klukkowski, has raised, that is quite correct, by violating the possibility of a cassation and appeal of decisions of the courts, regardless of the reason on which they are taken, whether the electoral system or civil law, we are at the same time adopting this law, if we vote it, creating another problem, which is that the existing appeal and cassation proceedings will in fact lead to, let's say, we are already working in the Supreme Council Hall as elected and registered national deputies, and the case law enforcement agency will still consider our cases as to whether we could be admitted to the elections of the Supreme Council. My question and my suggestion: we can't make this decision unless it's written simultaneously in civil procedural legislation, I would stress, separately, a special appeal and a cascading procedure to deal with complaints concerning electoral legislation. I am pleased to vote in favour of these changes if they are accompanied by changes in the existing appeals procedure, which would allow for the nature of the electoral process to be addressed in appeals and appeals institutions at a time that would be consistent with electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. I completely agree with you, but to overcome a certain course, you need to take a certain step. And by taking such changes, we are taking this step. If we accept such changes, it will enable us to resolve the question that you are talking about to the end. Then we will have to make changes to the Civil Procedural Code on the System of Complaints and Appeals, make these norms special for elections, so that we can "press" them into the electoral process. This will certainly be done, but if we cancel our own approach to the inability to appeal and appeal against the decisions of the courts that deal with cases in the first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u137	Thank you. Yes, did all the recorded speakers make a statement? The National Deputy Melnik Mikola, a faction of the Socialist Party, insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u138	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear reporter, why do you think we should accept these changes if we continue to keep the law on a proportionate basis? What will these changes do? That's the first one. The other one. We had cases where there were winners in one district, such as 18 years old, in the first and second cases. In the first case, the cassation court annulled the election, declaring it invalid. When the second election was scheduled, the cassation court again annulled the elections as invalid, but the district and central election committees did not make an adequate decision but the opposite. In the first case, when the Melnik of Svetlana won, they found the election invalid. On the second occasion, Mikola Odynik and his wife declared the election to be real. So making these changes is absolutely nothing. Central and District Election Commissions have their motives and make their decisions. The person who has paid more is making a decision in favor of it. What can be done in such cases?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u139	Thank you for asking. I share your view of what happened, especially in constituency 18, but I would like to point out that today is not about the Law on Elections of National Deputies. And this is about making changes to the Civil Procedure Code, including chapters 30-A and 30-B, which regulate the question of the passage and handling of complaints in the courts regarding elections to both local authorities and the Supreme Council. As for the draft Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies, which is in order today, I think that in the process of preparing it, these changes will be taken into account if they are supported. Thank you. With regard to the Central Electoral Commission, you have one opinion, with many national deputies sitting in the room, another. We are given the right to regulate this process in legislation, and we must do so as much as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Borszewski of the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u141	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] A faction of the Compartia of Ukraine. I fully share the view that such a law must be passed. Because in the Dnepropetrovsk elections, we faced the fact that the President of the Babushkin City Court of Dnepropetrovska single-handedly ruled on the members of the Horsovet, with gross violations in questioning witnesses, and there is no way to appeal. It would be useful at all to abolish the sole consideration of this issue in order to eliminate such practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u142	Thank you. To some extent, I share your opinion about making a single decision. But this is the position of another law. There are some changes to the Law on Judiciality in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u143	Time's up. Sergey Volodymyrovich, thank you. The committee’s report is given by Vasil Vasilovich Onopenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u144	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to place some emphasis on the questions that have come to Sergio Volodymyrovich Sasa regarding this bill. First of all, we reject the very principle of unreproachable court decisions. There can be no such thing. And this comes out of article 55 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that actions, inactivity, decisions of the authorities should and may be accused by citizens in court, as well as decisions of local authorities, officials and officials. In fact, the same position is enshrined in article 12 of the Law on Sudokus, which entered into force on June 1, this year. So we're giving up the principle. But how can we do so? You were right to ask these questions in the hall. We believe that what is in the Civil Procedure Code today, particularly in articles 2435 and 24315, is simply unacceptable. The main issue is the prosecution of decisions by election committees, actions, and inaction in court. We had examples where there were 15-20-30 candidates in some districts for the District Council, other boards for the election boards were taking out candidates from the electoral process, they were suing the court, and the judge was making decisions, and so people just didn't participate in the electoral process. Is that normal? We don't think so. Therefore, it is a matter of unlocking this process, allowing the court to charge the decisions of local courts that are not currently being sued. Questions were also asked correctly by Klukkowski, Matvienkov, Oneschuk, and others about how this could be delayed, for what time it took. It's already a matter of jurisdiction and how to determine it. I think in the Committee on Legal Policy we're going to pay attention to that. An appeal can be avoided, and an appeal can be filed with a higher court. This speeds up the process if we have to look at it quickly. You might think about terms, but what you need to do is make these changes clear. You've broken a set of issues that need to be addressed in the new procedural code. I will briefly inform you that the Committee on Legal Policy has already prepared changes to the Civil Procedure Code and that there are new draft civil, criminal and administrative codes. We are working on them, and we will work with you and we will think about how to protect citizens' rights and freedoms. And the only tool that can protect them is the court. That is why the Committee on Legal Policy considered this issue and recommended that the Supreme Council support the bill in the first reading and continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to open the debate? Please sign up. Let me explain. From the procedure? Please, from the procedure of the national MP Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u146	Dear Mr. Head! I want to remind you that the bill is being discussed, not from the place, but from the table, by the way that the application is filed. It's a different procedure. And it needs to be followed. If statements and entries are exhausted there, you can write them down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u147	I see you signed up here for the performance, and I don't see any problem here. I'd like to invite you to the presentation. Please. I invite all who wish to speak, honourable fellows, both from the place and from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u148	Thank you. We talk so often about the procedure that I think it should not only be discussed but also followed. Dear fellow MPs! The bill before us is of great practical importance. It is not even a matter of whether there have been specific cases during these elections, when the court’s decisions were, in a mild sense, illegal. I can name dozens, or hundreds, of such cases. With many of them, we will have an opportunity to get to know each other soon, because the Central Election Commission has taken on a great deal of work -- to issue all the court decisions made by the Supreme Court and the Courts of Appeal regarding the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies during the 2002 election process. I think that for all politicians and professionals, this is going to be a very instructive material, and we're going to see how often this rule is written in electoral legislation and in the Civil Procedure Code -- "the court's decision is final and the case is not admissible," has led judges to feel unpunished and to make any decision, knowing that it will not be challenged and that access to a qualified panel of judges or a High Council of Justice is so difficult that no one will touch them with this particular decision. [[Not judges, but individual judges]] [[whether it's your choice or your order.]] [[The law forbids]] That's why there's a problem. The problem is for another reason. We all know that the last election trial was first called an appeal to the court of first instance and to the actual hearing of this appeal, and to the court of appeal. This happened with regard to a certain number of specific elections - the election of a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, a fellow player who is our colleague on the Supreme Council of Ukraine - took advantage of this right. The question was considered in the Court of Appeal, the decision taken and the legal force gained. Thus, it turns out that the candidates in the election have different opportunities to exercise the constitutional right to appeal or to appeal a court decision against them. You can't do that in Crimea, you can't do that in the rest of Ukraine. Thus, the problem needs to be solved. I want this law to be passed immediately in general. Because without a special procedure of cassation, appeal, or even an accusation of court decisions in a fast - running trial, it is not easy to resolve the problem; the problem remains. I would like to highlight another aspect of this problem. Please tell me, while we apply the rules of civil law, i.e. the private legal process, to the resolution of public and legal matters relating to constitutional, administrative legislation such as elections. This is the question of the Administrative Code of Procedure, this is the question of the introduction of administrative justice in Ukraine, and that is why it refers to our previous question. We already see who is stopping the introduction of administrative justice in Ukraine. Therefore, this issue must be resolved along with the adoption of the Administrative Procedural Code, the draft of which has already been introduced and which we will accept. So I think it's enough to get the Civil Procedural Code in those chapters 30-A and 30-B, and it's time to take the administrative procedure seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one national MP, Klukkowski, has signed up for the discussion, which means the order of the day is exhausted. One minute, I'm reminded of the procedure here on every side. You signed up to ask questions. Dear colleagues, let's stick to this. Asked questions? Set. One national MP, Klukkowski, took the floor. The problem is clear, obviously, you have to make a decision, and tomorrow let's figure out how to make the right decision. Is there no objection? For a lineup? The national deputy of Yavorowski insists on reptiles.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! I took this minute for a lineup to tell us to look at each other for a moment. We know the situation in the country and how people live. Today, we were discussing the question of the deputies ’ apartment. Today, perhaps inadvertently, but a very important problem has been taken over completely. It seems that we are the only ones involved. But this is not about the great array of people who are behind the amendment to this law. So I'm convinced that tomorrow we have to vote in favour of this law, because it concerns millions of people who will have the opportunity to challenge the decisions of the courts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u151	People’s MP Melniczuk insists on replication, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u152	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. You asked: “Who wants to speak? ” I signed up and I was the first. But I tend to experience Yuri Bogdanovich, he's a really experienced parliamentarian, and I'm very grateful that he did. I want to say this from the question under discussion, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Of course, the changes that Sas and Onopenko discussed and legislative acts should be adopted. But whatever electoral law we're preparing, whatever good it is, I'm authoritatively stating that the executive authorities don't take into account any laws in either Chernivsky or in any other field. She understands the law as much as she wants. Practically falsified elections to the district council, and some courts become "hand-managed," which is said to have been done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. Please finish this discussion. Acceptance of him will take place tomorrow. People’s MP Melnik insists on reptiles. Please, the faction of the Socialist Party. Mikolo Eutychus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u154	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I agree with Klukkowski and other deputies who have made a change. I spoke with you about the election in constituency 18. What we're going to do is we're going to change when we have corrupt judges, appeals courts, district election committees, the Central Election Commission is completely out of control. They don't have humanity, they don't have the right. I think we need to first change the system of power, bring the work of power into line with the law, and then we can try for, for example, changes in the law. And then the elections in any district will be transparent and legal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Electronic Digital Signature. I would ask that we review it promptly and make a positive decision so that we can vote tomorrow. Just on the third floor, there was a demonstration of e-signature capabilities, and all those who wanted to see how much time it shortens, how much time it costs to protect the correspondents when doing that work letter. The report invites the Minister of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine, Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak. How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u156	Minister of Economy and European Integration of Ukraine. I've actually been preparing for all 10 minutes, but then I'll try harder in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u157	Yeah, if you don't mind, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on Electronic Digital Signature submitted for your consideration is a logical extension of the draft Ukrainian Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Processing, which has already been approved in a second reading by the Supreme Council. I would like to point out that recently in the developed countries of the world, electronic documentation has been widely used to ensure the conditions of validation of the integrity, reality and authorship of any electronic documents. This practice is expected to develop further as technical aids, such as information highways, Internet technology, are expanded. Today, this practice is very widespread in banking, and the world has actually gone completely into electronic commerce. This practice has become extremely widespread and directly within the government of the State. It should be noted that today appropriate legislative principles have been put in place for the use of electronic digital signatures in most countries of the European Union, Japan, and the United States. We are lagging behind in the legislative process, both from the Russian Federation and even from the Republic of Belarus. A special working group has been set up to work in the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, to which we have invited the best experts on this issue, both from executive authorities and scientists. We took into account the recommendations of the European Union and the United Nations. The purpose of the bill is to create legal bases for electronic documentation, including the Internet, to negotiate agreements, to create effective payment systems and to give electronic documents legal power equal to paper. The bill consists of 22 sections, which include defined terms, the scope of the law, the subject matter of the digital signature, their rights, duties, legal status, the purpose and conditions of use of the digital signature, the conditions of activity, and the duties of the established centres. A three-level system is proposed: first, it testifies to the central authority that registers all systems, the monitoring body that checks compliance with this law and, finally, the key certification centre, directly the systems that use the digital signature. In terms of financial security. In order to just start this work, that is to create the appropriate infrastructure and start this work in the executive branch, according to our calculations, you need the budget funding of 10.5 million dollars. Since legislation is not in place, we cannot predict this in the 2003 budget yet, but we expect 2003 to go to the normative level of this process in the future, and we can either look for additional funding in the context of the 2003 budget, or start this work since 2004. It seems right for us to start implementing this system in the executive branch. In the first stage, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in the Office of the President. The second step is in the central executive branch and the third in other government bodies, enterprises, including state institutions, state-owned organizations. We ask for the support of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u159	Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. Kozlowski, faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Please. You don't? Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister! In principle, I have no doubt as to the need to adopt this bill. And I'm looking, for example, at the first thing that's going to be an accelerated documentary process, and we know that in these operations we're going to do a lot of good for our foreign colleagues. And that's competitiveness. I have this question: Have there been any calculations as to how fast this can speed things up? Do you understand what this is about? How much of your own signature can be transmitted over the Internet? I realize there can't be an exact answer here, but there's obviously been some calculations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u161	Thank you. I regret to confirm that it's impossible to make any exact calculations, but we've taken for example the commercial sector, mainly the trade sector and the banking sector, and the government structures. For government structures, at least we increase the speed of passing documents in order, because today, taking into account especially territorial, geographical, paper reconciliation processes are much higher. [[Who worked in the executive branch knows]] As far as banking is concerned, after an electronic signature is in place, a large number of banks are already using it. These are their commercial risks without adequate legislative provisions. There, the speed of transmission of information, data, and documents is increasing hundreds of times. It's a pretty expensive thing to do, but it's primarily occupied by operationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u162	National MP Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u163	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Our Committee on Science and Education has considered this bill in detail and believes that it should be voted for in the first reading, but there are questions to you as a representative of the government. Nevertheless, it would be necessary to predict the responsibility of those who work with codes in the event of a breach of the secret of all these matters. [[I'm sure Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić will tell you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u164	Thank you. It seems to me that this is quite an appropriate proposal, and I think that we will work on it together before the second reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u165	National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u166	Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! In fact, we have to agree that the adoption of this bill will improve, speed up the paperwork because we already have, I'd say, the "turns" of the paperwork in the state administration system. This will also improve the work of commercial structures. But I'm also concerned about the question: is it possible to misuse digital electronic signatures? How can this be avoided? And really, how do you build an appropriate mechanism of responsibility for a violation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u167	Thank you. I can only refer to the practice that is now in Ukraine. Maybe I'll get fixed by the bankers who are working in this room right now. I was in a former banker myself, and I have to tell you that when we were working with paper carriers, you remember, there were huge problems with what we call an airplane when we faked signatures, seals, and colossal volumes. As far as electronic signature is concerned, we do not know the examples of how to overcome the cryptographic system of protection. Thus, proper protection will be provided. An incorrect or deliberate source of code may be allowed for those who do so directly. That's a different subject, that's what Mr. Nikolayenko was talking about. I think this is really going to have to be done separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u168	National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u169	Dear Alexander Vitalievich! I'm still going back to what you just said and what the deputies are asking, I think it's everybody's concern. There is no doubt about the subject. What we need to do is no doubt. I don't think we've forged signatures before because there was no such mechanism of work. The hacker system is now working seriously enough, and it is developed in certain ways. Intelligence is also a moment of protection. This law should therefore have elements of the degree of protection. This clearly must be an integral part of this law. This should be the degree of protection, not only from an economic point of view, but also from a technical point of view. Don't you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u170	Sergey Anatolyovich! I think you're absolutely right, but I want to say that the bill itself is large enough. Perhaps a third of its volume is dedicated directly to protective procedures. And once again, I want to explain what we're trying to do. We need to create an appropriate legal order. And then it's the business of every entrepreneur or banker who's engaged in commercial activity, whether it's to implement this system or not? Security systems like car alarms can be primitive, that will be broken by any hacker, and they can be the most obnoxious that can be broken virtually impossible. Each of these people will then choose a system. If a person is willing to take risks and not wear them on paper, but to speed up the trade from Kiev today without having a drug network, nothing else, then the law lays down the very principles of law. Another thing is, if someone makes this secret known, especially when it comes to government services dealing with state secrets, but I say again, it's a slightly different subject, and we'll think about it. And the technical side of the question, I think, is detailed enough in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u171	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. The report invites the head of the Science and Education Committee’s subcommittee, Mikhailo Kuzmić Rodionov. How long do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u172	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] In five minutes. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I will try to answer the questions that have been asked. The chairman of the Supreme Council Committee on Science and Education has already said that the committee considers it necessary to uphold the draft law in the first reading. In our view, this bill has all the legal bases necessary to resolve relations related to the use of electronic digital signatures in Ukraine’s electronic documentation process. I will remind you that the draft Ukrainian Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Documents has already been adopted by members of the previous vocation, and article 6 of the draft law emphasises that electronic digital signature is a mandatory electronic document requisition and relations related to the use of electronic digital signatures are regulated by a separate law. [[That's what the reporter said.]] So naturally, in order to look at the draft law on electronic documentation, we need to adopt the bill that is being considered today. That's the first one. The other one. Thus, the draft Law on Electronic Digital Signature is the tool that allows the creation of legal bases for electronic documentation, including on the Internet. I want to remind you of the trends that have already been mentioned, but there's still a tendency to expand the information space. What this means for Ukraine can be illustrated by an example from yesterday. You know that yesterday there was a meeting of opposition forces -- the national deputies of Simonenka, Timoshenko, the Frost with the people of Kiev, a multi-human rally where they unanimously adopted a resolution to support the action "Rise, Ukraine!"which will take place on September 16th at 3 p.m. in the European Square. But no media outlets report this. So by proposing to support this draft law, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education believes that this will contribute to the expansion of the information space as well as to the formation of a forward-looking relationship that will in the future determine the vector of society's development, including in the information space. I want to remind you that the development of information technologies, the introduction of them into different spheres of social life, is very fast, including in Ukraine, and it is impossible to stop this trend, not to say that it is no longer necessary. But in order for Ukraine not to be on the sidelines, it is necessary to remove obstacles to the introduction of information technology into different spheres of social life, and one such problem today is the lack of a legal basis for the introduction of electronic documents, i.e. the absence of an electronic digital signature law. As to whether this signature can be forged. It was already reminded that on the third floor, we have a demonstration of what we already have. Ukraine has many exploits, not just today. Ukraine was one of the first to develop this trend. And today, for example, banking systems are already using this. Experts estimate that although they may be overestimated, the degree of protection of paper signatures is 10128. But right here it was said that if there is an action, there is opposition. And the question of whether abuse is possible. On this point, we can now say exactly that, yes, in Ukraine, there is a potential abuse, but not in this area. For this abuse applies neither to the technical nor to the moral and spiritual consequences of our society. That's why opposition calls for action. "Get up, Ukraine!"that it wouldn't be. When I finish my speech, I want to say that there is a technical observation, but these remarks now relate to the fact that our people are probably not technically well educated to understand these terms. I mean, if there's still an education system like this, there's not only going to be low-tech people in the future, but there's not going to be any technically educated people in the future. That is why we need to adopt this bill because it is in the interests of Ukraine and the interests of our society. It seems to me that the bill can be adopted in the first reading, as the committee suggests, taking into account all the comments. This will be a good document for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u173	Thank you, Michael Kouzmich. Dear colleagues! I want us to consult. People's deputy Black, there will be questions. National Deputy Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich asks us to continue our work for 15 minutes and to consider the next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of public funds, as it is necessary and is long-lasting. If there is a need to discuss this bill, let us be brief. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, Your Honor, we're not done, I'm just suggesting that we continue our sessions for 15 minutes. Is there a need to speak? You don't? Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. We understand that this should be closely linked to action, since then there will be no real Digital Signature Act, and tomorrow we will thus be determined by voting to adopt it in the first reading. Question completed. Let's move on to the next question. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. The reporter is Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u174	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We discussed this law quite in detail at the meeting of the profiling committee. In fact, it stems from the practice that we have already had over a year and a half on government procurement and we are making three fundamental changes to it. First. We simplify and shorten the terms of the public procurement procedure very much, because that big enough mechanism that we wrote shows that sometimes it gets in the way of a pretty quick decision-making process. The other one. We're going back to the idea that we've been discussing for a very long time in the adoption of the law in this room, in order to set a valuable limit, the equivalent of 2,000 euros for goods and services and 100,000 euros for work, so that every single book or glass doesn't buy under a procedure that lasts at least 90-95 days. And finally, third. We suggest that we abandon the strict norm in order to make such purchases available to the national manufacturer alone today. First of all, this is a norm that neither meets European legislation nor the legislation of the World Trade Organization. Nevertheless, all foreigners share with one another through intermediate and drug dealers. Well, it's the main thing. We have a percentage rate, which is, if it's a national producer, it's going to get 10 percent of the preference, if it's a representative of UTOC, UTOS, 15 percent of the price preference to its offer. In fact, all the changes that we're proposing. This bill was drafted on the committee by a working group chaired by Vasil Petrovich Tsushka, with whom we discussed everything and came together to think that this bill should have been adopted in the first reading, and those ideas that are in the Tsushka bill should have been taken into account in the second reading. But the document is needed because government purchases are ongoing, and we are now literally overwhelmed by complaints about the imperfections of this mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Please point it on the board. People's Deputies of the Tsagnibok, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u176	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 120, Lviv region]] Thank you. Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! After all, I was surprised by your latest thesis on the, probably, total ignorance of the national manufacturer. But on the other hand, it might be in the law to consider the issues of those civil servants who have the right to sign on the purchase of goods and services and are accordingly committing numerous abuses, and we know about it. Some amendments to the Criminal Code regarding sanctions against civil servants may need to be considered in some way. Have you considered this aspect of the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u177	Thank you. I wanted to say that we're all now being maximized somehow the day before, probably on September 16th, but I wasn't talking about the maximum ignorance of the national manufacturer. No way! I was talking about the fact that preferences would be created for a national producer that could not be ignored by a foreign producer. Let me give you just one example. We are now overwhelmed by complaints about the fact that they are forcing us to buy domestic paper, and the Xerox of the Supreme Council is not accepting it, nor are they able to print normal documents for us. We were forced to make an exception, to come up with a scheme when a domestic producer became a dealer, and we made it more difficult just to make that decision. It's wrong, it's not marketable, and there's no national manufacturer's protection. It's not a protection, it's the same thing if we go from the border now, eat our own, eat our own and forget everything else. Once again, we are violating basic principles. You have the right question about the responsibility of those who arrange the tender. We believe that the responsibility of those who sign the solicitation documentation and direct tenders has not been sufficiently worked out. We believe that the relevant standards in the Criminal Code and in other documents are sufficient, and those who organize tenders need to understand responsibility. When we looked at the practice of doing these jobs in places, we decided that we needed to prepare such a document, and we're working on it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u178	Thank you. People's deputy Shevchenko, faction of Ukrainian Agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u179	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[electoral district 39, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] It's a faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! You're saying that the main purpose of this bill is to put the competitive conditions of a domestic producer and a foreigner at the same level, it should give us the prerogatives of joining the World Trade Organization. What is the economic impact that is predicted of this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u180	I just want to give you two arguments, and I want you to listen to them. A foreign producer participating in a tender will have to pay the import tax that is now 100 percent when entering the state. [[Let's say he has to put the grain in the state reserve.]] If he is willing to compete under such conditions, please let him compete. We don't deny such competition, it's completely normal and transparent. And as for the effect, the effect is going to be one. The effect is the economy of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u181	National MP Noshchenko, faction of parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs, and "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u182	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 160, Sumska oblast]] Dear reporter! Of course, the changes proposed will allow competitive tenders to be made with more simplified schemes. But I have a question about that today. The law does not provide an exception when the State makes a commitment at the expense of the State’s resources to support the farmer. The government’s will to do it again refers to the law on yielding seed by tender. What is the purpose of the tender? Reduce the price. Where, then, is the support of the farmer? I think that's something to be said, and the actions that the government is doing in support of the agricultural producer are prescribed in the law. At this point in my district, the Deaf region has given up a thousand tons of grain, the price is unknown, it changes every week, and it has already reached 18 copies per kilogram. This is because bread costs 1 bracelet. Please tell me if this problem has been addressed in the context of change and if you would like to discuss it in a second reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u183	Thank you. First of all, I'd like you and I to understand that this law is not universal, which would solve all the problems that I would like to solve today. Its main goal is to save money for the state budget. The other one. A problem that you raise directly. I don't agree with you that there are no separate cases in the law. The law contains article 9, which provides for individual cases where the government or the contracting authority itself is able to make decisions regarding the purchase of products on special terms. And I think that the case you were talking about could be considered. Third. We've already discussed with you, and I've talked about that if the government were able to buy through the state reserve today, through the integration fund -- through mortgage purchases as a minimum of 25 percent of the price, it would be the legislator in the price market. To date, he would be buying at a better rate of 5 percent, and thus he would not have had any effect on the price. It is more likely to be influenced by grain traders, so we will look at this specific situation separately in the drafting of the law and see if we can use the procedures that are already in place today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u184	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich, your time is up. For the purpose of the report, the word is given to Montenegro by Volodymyr Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u185	Dear National Deputies! Prescribing before a bill can be presented only within the scope of the bill. There are many outstanding issues, and this bill does not claim to solve all the issues that the minister rightly said. This bill is intended, first, to improve existing procedures for public procurement; secondly, to increase competition in the national economy; and thirdly, to further harmonize Ukrainian legislation with European Union legislation. To achieve this, it is proposed to make three major changes to the law in force. The bill corrects the establishment of a valuable limit from which purchases are made under procedures and in the order established by the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. [[equivalent of 2,000 euros for goods and services and 100,000 euros for work]] So only when the cost of goods and services is equal to or greater than the amount equivalent to 2 000 euros, and for jobs 100,000 euros, is the law in force. This is a simplification for those purchases that are lower than this level. That's the first one. The other one. It is proposed to remove the restrictions on traders by exclusively domestic producers. This question is questionable, which has already been discussed today. So it's about allowing tendering not only for domestics but also for foreign participants. But at the same time, the foreign bidder pays the import duty. So we're trying to protect the domestic manufacturer to some extent, but we're allowing that, and we need to realize that, and the foreign bidder. Third. Some changes are being made regarding the conduct of the procedures for the request for price proposals and the procedure for the conduct of the prior qualification procedure, as well as the conclusion of the procurement contract. These are the three major changes that are proposed to make to the law in force. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. At the same time, a number of appropriate suggestions are made that should be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The Committee on Economic Policy, which I am introducing, has considered the bill at the meeting and recommends that it be considered in the first reading session room and adopted as a basis. In doing so, the committee points out that when preparing the draft draft for second reading, it is necessary to ensure that, to some extent, the priority right of a domestic producer is ensured in the purchase of goods and services. Of course, we need liberalisation, but perhaps we need reasonable protectionism. And finally, there's another bill that's on our committee that was submitted by Deputy Tsushk when this bill was recommended by the Committee to Consider the Supreme Council. We agreed with the author that he would make proposals for the second reading, and we will build them in the table and recommend that we take them into account in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-11-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Any questions to the reporter? None. Is there a need to discuss this document? Then we conclude our consideration of the matter. The decision will take place tomorrow. The morning session is closed. Since 16 o'clock, work on committees and factions.
