ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. 380 national deputies registered. Please show by factions. Dear National Deputies! Today, in all schools in Ukraine, it's the last bell. Since all of us have an attitude toward school in one way or another, let's welcome the representatives of our young generation who finish their studies and enter their own lives and wish them that their way is happy and peaceful. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Let me inform you that I spoke to the President of Ukraine on your behalf. The President of Ukraine reported that, taking into account his work schedule, he would decide on his statement to the Supreme Council, which he would further inform the Supreme Council. With regard to the materials of the letter from the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. They're given to you at the time of your registration. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of the issues set before the establishment of the Committees of the Supreme Council, including the election of the Heads and First Vice-Presidents of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me inform you, honourable national deputies, that despite the official invitation to hold meetings of the Conciliation Council yesterday and today at 9 a.m., the work of the Conciliation Council is effectively blocked by the leaders of the four factions - "Our Ukraine", the Communist Party of Ukraine, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Yulia bloc of Timoshenko. So I suggest we discuss the situation and decide how we can proceed. Please sign up for your statement. Five minutes. Please. If we have to, we'll deal with you and continue with the performances. Please put the list on the board. Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Humiri, a faction of Communists. Next is the word of the national deputy, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u2	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u3	Turn on the microphone of the national MP Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u4	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Of course, I and my faction buddies join all the sincere and good wishes of the young generation of Ukraine. But they speak out of the mouth of men who teach lies to the young generation, false examples of bribery, blackmail, and humiliation of human dignity. I imagine the situation of today's young generation if the people's MP, threatening and humiliating him, is forced to vote against his will for a fee. [[moral or monetary terms]] With regard to the procedure, I would recommend that you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, consider why four factions are not attending the meeting. But there is a way out for you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. He is in compliance with the Rules of the Supreme Council. I would like to recommend that you base yourself on finding ways out of this situation on article 2.2.3 of the Rules of the Supreme Council. [[and to all members of the people]] Part 3 of this article defines that the preparatory group that you and I have set up for the first plenary session is putting an end to its activities with the creation of standing committees of the Supreme Council. [[Committees Today]] If you, the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council, are unable to organize work today on draft decisions on the election of the heads and the first deputies of the committees of the Supreme Council, I suggest that this issue be considered by the preparatory working group that completes its mandate after the election of the committee heads. So I'm talking to both of you, and to all of you: Your Honor's colleagues, the working group has worked very well, it's much faster than we have, it's found consensus and normal, so let's say, a way out of a difficult situation. And now the members of the group are much sooner to make a deal and offer us specific proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u5	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich, for the constructive suggestions, for the principled position. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy, Grigorovich, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u6	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u7	Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u8	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine," the National Movement of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We really need to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. There's this option, and if you listen to it and try to help implement it, I think we'll be able to form a parliamentary committee board by the beginning of next week and start a normal job. I'm not going to touch the first stage of the work of the newly elected Supreme Council, I'm just going to say that, indeed, in the direction of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council has been raped. But there's nothing left to go back to today. If you understand everything that happened in the Supreme Council, you will find that you can do it by analogy with the parliamentary committees. But what will happen after a while? I think no one, not even from your faction, will raise his hand and consider doing what was done again. There's an option. As yesterday's leader of your faction, you're taking the basis of a package of proposals from "Our Ukraine," basically leaving it as it was presented yesterday and put to the vote. We can talk about some changes in these proposals. [[one-two]] And then, on behalf of your faction, it's submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. From the faction of Ukraine! And this package will be supported! This will be absolutely fair. I don't want to open up the whole logic of events anymore, because the leadership of the Supreme Council is made up of representatives of two factions, and logically, the committees should be led mainly by representatives of the four factions that made those proposals yesterday. Then we're going to have some balance and we're going to be able to get out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Obviously, there is a need to continue the proceedings so that representatives of all factions can express their position. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Bespalov, the faction of Ukraine. Next will be Cloud Stepan Ilkovich, a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u10	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 183, Herson District]] Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Karpov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u11	Please turn on the microphone of the Karpov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u12	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! To start with, we have to say that the work of the Conciliation Board is blocked. In these circumstances, which are not regulatory, but political, given that the mandate of the preparatory working group according to the position that we have approved has ended, there is a proposal to create an organizational committee or a working group of representatives of all parliamentary groups and factions and to start preparing balanced proposals for the selection of committee leaders and their first deputies. [[She worked for the leadership of the Supreme Council.]] [[Whatever you call it.]] For our part, we will delegate people to this working group and ask all factions to delegate to this working group of their representatives by Tuesday to work out balanced proposals. And today, because the question cannot be interrupted, and there are no other proposals, I propose to announce a break by Tuesday, to create a working group, and to prepare a balanced document for the vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u13	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the Cloud People’s Deputy, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u14	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Fatherland's Party. Dear National Deputies! By means of its column in the Supreme Council -- two intermediate factions -- the government has usurped power in the Supreme Council, effectively taking a course to eliminate parliamentaryism in Ukraine and ignoring the will of the electorate. This is how the Presidency of the Supreme Council was chosen as dishonest, dirty means. Today, you are reaping the fruitage of these choices without having the opportunity to make the work of the Supreme Council fruitful. Then you will reap even more because you are completely ignoring the will of the Ukrainian people. Now get out of this situation alone. Four factions proposed their draft decision on the formation of the Supreme Council committees. Once again, you ignored the will of the four factions — the real majority that the Ukrainian people had chosen in the elections. Now you will take full responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u15	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the National Deputy Karnauha, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The next one will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u16	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 152, Poltava region]] I will take this opportunity to address the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister. At a time when we can't start an effective job here, two extraordinary events took place in my constituency. First. In Lochvice more than thirty children were knocked unconscious and taken to a hospital. No one gave an objective assessment of this fact or determined why it happened. The other one. For almost a month now, the head of Naglenko’s administration, who was to be immediately removed from office and brought to criminal responsibility, has been in office. Why is this happening? Why Is There No Power in Action? So I insist that we get our work back on track as soon as possible. To this end, I propose that we vote in favour of allowing time for factions to agree on positions, to consult them not for days, but to clearly gather for a time, to find out positions, and to report to the Supreme Council. And from the procedure, I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Frost, the leader of the faction. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u17	Dear National Deputies! On procedural issues, we've raised representatives of all factions, except for the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Please turn on the microphone of the Medvedchuk People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u18	National Deputy of Ukraine (Balgato-mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (United States). Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I spoke yesterday and pointed out that what is happening in our sitting room (which, I said, needs to be negotiated and offered a proportional distribution) is no more than the words on the third floor, that is, on the media. I was right. Just 15 minutes after the conclusion of the evening session and the announcement by the Head of the Supreme Council of the Conciliation Council meeting, representatives of four factions did not appear, which, in my opinion and my firm conviction, block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Without the election of the committee heads and their first deputies, we cannot move on to the legislative process that our electorate, who elected us to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is now awaiting. I think it's honourable colleagues and respectable Vladimir Mikhailovich who have now made the right proposals, including proposals from representatives of the four factions. Yes, we need to re-announce the recess, call a meeting of the Conciliation Council and hold it. If the representatives of these four factions do not come to the meeting, in order to stop blocking the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, deputies who agree to continue to work and want to participate in the election of committee management should, as the National Deputy Karpov has already said, create a working group or an orgcommittee and Tuesday, by 10 a.m., make their draft decision, approve it so that those who lose once will realize that they can lose again and those who want to work to take responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u19	Dear national deputies, representatives of all factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Peter Mikolaiovich, would you like a word for a word? The people’s deputy Simonenko has a word for it. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u20	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, regarding the last performance. We have long understood that this is suggested by those who have great experience of coups in the Supreme Council, based on some kind of formal legal basis. If four factions have submitted their project and their leaders are formally considered to be members of the Conciliation Council, it turns out that the majority of the members of the Conciliation Board have voted on the package that is being submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. What kind of problems?Oh, my God! If the Chief of the Supreme Council is unable to organize the work, I would suggest that we use the Rules and entrust the preparatory working group with the task of completing the work and making an agreed project. But most members of the Conciliation Board have already voted in favour of this package, and it is made by the majority of factions’ leaders. And the last. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like you to explain to us, members of the Communist faction, and representatives of the media, who gave orders to restrict the movement of accredited members of the Supreme Council of media representatives in the premises of the Supreme Council? [[is meant in the second floor lobby]] They are not allowed to move freely, and they are already expressing concern. If this is your order, then tell us not to answer any questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u21	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! Explain and answer. The head of the Supreme Council has not yet issued any regulations, including restrictions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to be tolerant and listen to my explanation. Including restrictions on the access of journalists to Parliament. I emphasize this once again and ask you to listen carefully. I also talk to journalists: there were no restrictions! People’s MP Sulkovsky is asking for a replete.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u22	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 154, Plain region]] Dear National Deputies! Your Honor is presiding! It is a pity that we have not been able to build a normal work in Parliament for a long time, which is what the electorates and the entire people of Ukraine expect of us. This once again confirms that President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma has made a big mistake, making a bet on the "One Ukraine" faction. It's really a stalemate, unsuspecting activity of the Ukrainian Parliament. And it's very sad, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that they're speaking out of the "For the One Ukraine" block today! And, in particular, Mr. Medvedchuk, we don't hear for the first time speaking out and saying that someone is blocking work in Parliament. I think today the people of Ukraine see and give a fair assessment of what blocks the President's mistake and, above all, the bloc "For the One Ukraine!".. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I thought this Presidium could be the best in Parliament by six months. However, if events continue to develop this way, I think you won't be working in the Presidium for two months. So I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as Head of the Supreme Council: listen to yesterday's proposal by the leader of the "Our Ukraine" faction Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenka to take a break until Tuesday. And in these days, on behalf of the National Deputies, I ask you, Your Honor, to oblige the speaker to find a complete understanding, to prepare the project by Tuesday, 10 a.m., to prepare candidates for the positions of committee heads, to conduct a fair division according to quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u23	I thank you for setting the time limit and for the right offer you made. Dear National Deputies! The time for speeches on procedural matters and for a replica is exhausted in accordance with the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! From the socialists, a national deputy, Karnauh, spoke. The suggestions that were made in the presentations were to create an organizational committee that, at the commission of the factions, would deal with proposals for the distribution of committees, the positions of committee heads and the first deputies of committee heads. [[B in m in s a l in]] A proposal was also made by the national deputy Karnaukh. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I'm acting according to the Rules. I ask you to take your jobs and comply with the Rules. Members of the Socialist Party's faction insist that the faction should come out of the faction by the People's Deputy, Mr. Aleksandrovich, because a member of the Karnauh MP, according to the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, spoke from himself rather than from the faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down. Turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of Frost for fractional replication. Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u24	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for seeing me holding my hand for half an hour. A few replicas of that meaning. First. What is done in the Supreme Council is all under the responsibility of the Head. And if someone has given a foolish order, this resentment should divide and take on the Head, he must arrange for it not to happen. Journalists have no right to reach the centre of the Garden. This is a disgrace that has not been in Parliament in 12 years. Some have come to the conclusion that by concealing the authority of the Head, you will have to get rid of it, please. It's different. The four factions are surprised to hear your reproaches, since the faction work document is given, and you can work on it. Organize a job to be joined by other factions, and there will be no problems. And then, you know, yesterday, it was stated from the rostrum that until blackmail and pressure on MPs, factions -- socialist, communist, "Our Ukraine" and "Our Fatherland," which you called here -- we're not going to go to your meetings, because it's all consecrated by one name and you're completely involved. Make sure that these deputies are not pressured to let the taxpayers know their business rather than deal with the interests of the factions; that the police, the prosecutor’s office, do not call, and everything will be in place. Because it's a disgrace! Today we want to rape 226 votes again to solve the leadership issue in our own way, then the work will be done by the Supreme Council. Take this into account, for execution, rather than putting these problems in front of other factions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u25	I thank you, Your Honor Alexander Alexanderovich, but as the former Head of the Supreme Council, to a man of great experience, I would like to say, please don't let this go to the vote. The other one. Dear journalists! Once again, I would like to emphasize by saying the famous words. Once a great politician said that if the driver got drunk, there was no fault of Soviet authority. If someone for provocative purposes has given such an order, I share responsibility for it, and it has been canceled. There's no problem. And I'd like you not to win authority here on a problem that doesn't exist. Dear National Deputies! If you're interested in an explanation for this, I'm going to ask Zinchenko Alexander Alexiyovich, he was dealing with this question, to give an explanation. Please, Alexander Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u26	Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I think the best way to get into history is to think about the third floor again and talk to journalists. But now it's not at the address, it's not until the foreclosure. Yesterday there was actually a report that journalists had limited access to some of the Supreme Council premises. Terminally, all the circumstances regarding this restriction have been clarified, and it turns out that the director of the Apparatus, who now represents another faction, has been ordered to limit the access of journalists to Sadowa, 3 in the dining room. The dining room, not the second floor, and other Supreme Council premises, just the dining room. Yesterday at 17 p.m., an immediate order was made to remove all restrictions on journalists' access to any Supreme Council premises. This was done at 5 p.m. I think this incident is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u27	Thank you. National MP Simonenko, Peter Mikolaiovich, proposed that the preparatory group be entrusted with the necessary work to work out proposals for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the distribution of the positions of committee heads and their first deputies. For reasons of vote, please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Matthew, a faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u28	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to draw the attention of the presiding officer and his colleagues in the Presidium first of all: to be governed by the law, and the law for you is first of all the Rules. Article 3.3. 2 The Rules state that if the discussion finds that a certain time is not sufficient for discussion, the Supreme Council, without discussion, may make a procedural decision to increase time for discussion. What's that? Is it a dictatorship or how to explain it? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, which article of the Rules you were guided by when you recorded the names of the people’s deputies, and you gave the floor only to the factions. These are simple things! So we need to continue now to discuss this very difficult issue, the more the order of the day, I'm stressing this, we're broken. We have not considered the issue of order of the day with regard to the message of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u29	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u30	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] I just want to say one thing: how can the so-called preparatory group work and work productively if, please read yesterday's "Ukrainian Truth" on the web site of Ukrainian Truth, Deputy Zadrožny, who is not a representative of the President, that's not his personal position, that's the position of the President's representative, that says that "Eda" is categorically claiming to be four key committees: on legal policy, the budget committee, the regulatory committee and the committee on anti-corruption issues, because, you see, this committee should also be taken. And the rest, he said, let them take it. That's the position, that's the hypocrisy from here. You'll have the crumbs from the Jedi table, and we'll take everything away, just like we took it. What objectivity can be discussed? That's the first one. And the second. It's a break. Dear Lord Chairman! In an interview on February 15, this year, if I don't remember, in the Komsomol truth, you said that when you were a child, you loved to play and play and stuff, and your parents tied you to a table. Let us also tie you to a table so that you will sit here, work, and not take forever breaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u31	The people’s deputy, Assadchev, has a word for replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u32	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Thank you. Dear friends! I want to address, not the presiding officer, but the factions and deputies who have come to this Parliament to work today. I think we have some very interesting information today. It may have been overlooked by a few, but it seems to me that we should take this information into account in our subsequent actions. And this information relates to the fact that our President in his letter actually confirmed the fact that he was going to go on a third term. Note that the strategy he outlined in the letter reaches until 2011. We can draw the right conclusion from this. Now let's think with you that the President needs to be able to get through the third term, we need to make changes to the Constitution. And can this Parliament, even if they put 226 guns on it, make changes to the Constitution? No, it's not. Because what do we have to do with this Parliament? He needs to be chased. And that's why the main function that Lithuania and its people are doing today are to unleash this Parliament. And you don't have to teach him how we teach him what to do right now. He knows what he's doing. And we have to realize that. So I would very much like for those who have come here to take this message of the President into account in all their follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u33	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy has the word for replication. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u34	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! The question was raised, we are considering Peter Simonnck's proposal to create a preparatory group, and it was announced for reasons of vote. These are all the versions that have just sounded out of the question. And I'm the one with the motive for voting. Dear friends! We did a really good job with the preparatory group, and all those proposals that were agreed upon at the preparatory group meeting, including the factions that are now part of the "four" or the factions of the "four" then, after the agreement at the entry into this room, were not voted unanimously by these factions, precisely these factions. What do you want it to be again? So who's blocking the Supreme Council's work? That's the first one. The other one. This is where the Head and others are accused of violating the Rules. Ladies and gentlemen! Look at the board! You're going three minutes instead of one minute. Instead of three or five minutes! Look at yourself first! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Judging from your reaction, there is a need to discuss these issues. Let's figure out how much time we need to do this. A year? I'm asking a question for a vote. Please identify yourself in order to spend one hour discussing the situation and the suggestions made by the Ukrainian national deputies. Turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. "For" - 183. The factions, please show me. What are some suggestions regarding time? Turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Rudzkowski. Your offer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u36	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It was a matter of procedure. It takes 150 votes. But I am addressing you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the people's deputies want to make a statement. You're the leader of the "One Ukraine" faction today, well, you're influencing them. In principle, if you suggest, you ask them to support it if we want to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. This is the first time. It's different. It would be right if the MPs were recorded in the speech instead of reaching out to the hand, then there would be no controversy. Third. Let those responsible follow the rules: If one minute is taken to perform one minute, three or three minutes. And fourth. It is imperative that we discuss this matter now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u37	Dear National Deputies! In support of the proposal of the People's Deputy Rudzkowski, I ask you to sign up for the speech. Please turn on the system. Please record for statements. Let me see the board, please. Turn on the microphone of National Deputy Saligin, faction of "The One Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u38	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 172, Kharkiv Region]] I ask you to give the floor to the national deputy Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u39	Turn on the microphone of the Karpov People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In order to have less reason to accuse you of violating the Rules, I propose that the computer group be instructed to automatically turn off the microphone of those who speak as soon as the regulation on the board ends. [[And they're not at all, from my point of view,]] That's the first one. The other one. There was a proposal that wasn't voted out from "Our Ukraine" and "The One Ukraine" to take a break until Tuesday, create a working group and prepare a balanced document to elect the heads of committees and the first deputies of committee heads. I ask you to put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u41	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Makeenka, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u42	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Please pass the word to Karmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u43	Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u44	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you. "Our Ukraine," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We've spent a month with you. Let's realize that all the further breaks, all the further movement, the further pressure that was said to lead to nothing good. So I would now like to make a statement to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the leaders of those factions who took responsibility for the creation of leadership, about the principles that the faction of "Our Ukraine" was talking about, especially in the Jushchenka speeches that were made from the rostrum, and those that, on democratic principles, the Preparatory Group has prepared. So the scale of everything that's on the Supreme Council. And I'd like you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, when you give instructions on journalists, to also give instructions on assistant deputies of the past vocation, who once again became MPs. Because today, the Commandant decides who to let in, who not to let in. This is not the first conflict created by the Commandant and the Apparatus. And you've finally realized that the power of the Supreme Council belongs to the apparatus that it usurped. So I would like to make this clear so that there is a transparent policy to be honest politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u45	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of Loboda's national MP, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u46	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] I'd like to give Peter Mikolaiovich Simone a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u47	Turn on the microphone of the national MP Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We are indeed witnessing another phase of the brutal experiment on Ukraine. As we can see, in the country, as a foreign body, the Supreme Council Presidency, composed of representatives of political parties, from which voters in the elections grumbled like leprosy. Of course, in order to ensure the laboratory purity of this dirty experiment on the Supreme Council and, in this case, on the electorate, the latter, the administrative reserve in the allocation of committees, remained to be used. Who else, under pressure from the press of a morally depraved regime, would give up their electorate? That is the question of the representatives of the two factions today. They are looking for those who would change their electorate. Indeed, it will take some time and change the leadership of both the Supreme Council and the committees, and the President himself, but the stigma will remain with us people's deputies in Ukraine. And it seems that this problem with journalists in general answers, though with irony, to the question that edoki are afraid that they will be in line even in the Supreme Council dining room. Therefore, it seems to me that those of the representatives of “One Ukraine”, who today do not think about the future, should remember that you will be deceived by those who today force you to do so as their own. Our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u49	Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u50	Once again, in view of the fact that the power of the two factions has indeed been usurped, all the remaining leadership positions of the committee chairmen and the first deputies should be allocated on the initiative of the four factions. I propose that we vote in favour. After all, you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, must understand that you, as Chairman, now have one way out of your faction to persuade members of your faction to vote in favour of this package, otherwise there will be no work. And I can accept what Assadchev said, that you are carrying out the task of destroying the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u51	Thank you. I ask the secretariat to turn off the microphone when the Rules are broken. Turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Vernigori, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u52	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please pass the word to Vitalia Šibku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u53	Turn on the microphone of the national deputy Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u54	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, I didn't realize what the rule of law is, which gives us one minute to discuss. I know that one minute is asked and three minutes are given for discussion. That's the first one. The other one. I think you, as a person who is today the Head of the Supreme Council, need to think about why the four factions are so acting. You have to look for a way out of this. Because these four factions have 70 percent of the voters behind them, and they somehow reflect their will. So I think if you say you don't break, you're going to go down to them, and you're going to find agreement with them, not dictate your terms from the rostrum. Perhaps there will be some compromise. So I see that today there is room for compromise. If you gather representatives of six factions without you, I think two factions will be able to work more tolerantly and properly with a "four" in order to make a deal. That's the way out. I'll give him a hint. And the last. Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't insult the state, don't insult the driver, don't insult me. He's not always drunk, you see what books he's writing!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to give the floor to the national deputy of Taran, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u56	Please give the word to the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u57	Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u58	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Chairman, we have a three-minute speech, not a lineup, but a discussion plan. And now for whoever's breaking up the Supreme Council's work. Your Honor is presiding! Four made her draft decision. And given that you have a majority of 226 votes, which gives you all the positions of office in the Presidium, based on the principle of justice, those factions that are represented in the Presidium have no right to committees. So you have to go along with the principle of justice and vote for the fair distribution of seats on the committees according to the principle of the Quartet. You don't want to do this. So who's blocking the Supreme Council's work -- the "four" or the majority that's elected you to leadership? So do not translate your responsibility or your inactivity, your unprincipledness, and your principle of unfair approach to the work of the Supreme Council. Now to the "four." The leaders of the Four, you mean, with your hands they want to do what they did in choosing the leadership of the Supreme Council. Kuchma wants to involve a few more deputies to select committees for the "Eeds" and "SDPU" themselves. So our faction urges you not to care about it. They want all the committees to take it. Take the presidency, let them take all the committees and take political responsibility. Our faction in this participation will not be.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u59	Thank you. I just want to remind you that we didn't vote for the performance. Turn on the microphone of the National MP, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u60	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 194, Hmelnicka District]] Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Literally a few words. I mean, you don't have to throw that hook at anybody: the four was put to the vote, and it got as many votes as it got. And we don't have to go back to that. All factions should unite, work until Tuesday, distribute the positions of committee heads, first deputies, and make a draft decree for consideration by the Supreme Council on Tuesday. If one of the faction leaders refuses to work in this group, he does not want these positions. Therefore, the question should be brief: Who among the leaders of the factions will gather, who will work, let those positions be distributed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u61	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kluva, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u62	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 46, Donetsk Region]] Please give the floor to the Deputy Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u63	Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u64	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Dear colleagues, this is a big request: in the name of our faction is the word "Ukraine," and therefore the shortcut is not to be used. Because we respect the MPs from the faction of "Our Ukraine" and we don't use the humiliating shortcuts that the press unfortunately invented. So please pay attention to that. This is the first time. It's different. Several suggestions were made regarding the announcement of the break until Tuesday and the organization of the work of the Conciliation Council. We can also agree to invite additional three or four representatives of each faction to the Conciliation Council. On the Conciliation Council, however, members of the Conciliation Council may have exclusive voting rights. With regard to the principles of distribution. Our "One Ukraine" faction has offered the optimal and fair distribution of management positions. The largest faction is the first place, the second largest faction is the second place, and the third largest fraction is the third place in the Presidium. Unfortunately, though, our package was blocked. And one of the candidates offered by us withdrew his candidacy on the demand of members of his faction. Thus, in order to unlock Parliament's work, there was nothing left to do but bring forward the candidatures that were guaranteed to remain on the list. This decision has been voted out, it is legitimate, and so let us respect this decision. We propose a proportional distribution of committees according to the Rules, but unfortunately, the work of the Conciliation Board is still being blocked. So let's now vote in favour of the proposal of three factions - "The One Ukraine", "Our Ukraine", and the SDPU (o) to announce a recess by Tuesday and assign the Head to assemble the Conciliation Council and hold an appropriate meeting. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not yet voting on the procedure. Please calm down. Dear National Deputies! The proposals are repeated, they're known, we haven't decided in time to discuss the situation. Obviously, it would be more appropriate to vote on the proposals made and to provide constructively agreed work. Is there no objection? Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputy Robber, we didn't speak from factions, we just spoke for the record. One moment, please sit down. The first was Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich’s proposal to entrust the Preparatory Group to continue to work specifically on matters related to the distribution of headships and the first deputies of committee heads. Peter Mikolaiovich, do you need to restate your offer? Turn on the microphone of the national MP Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u66	The Communist faction. My proposal is based on the fact that on the day following the shameful Tuesday, the Supreme Council is ineffective. And the leadership of the Supreme Council, which is not respected by election methods, cannot assemble faction leaders and make a concerted decision for the consideration of the Supreme Council. That is why I have proposed to use the rule of law, which allows us not to interfere with this process of the Chief of the Supreme Council and his deputies, to entrust the preparation of this issue to the Preparatory Delegation Group led by Martinyuk, who has prepared all the questions and draft documents for consideration by the Supreme Council. [[I called it article 2.2.3, paragraph 3, of the Rules]] And they'll be able to prepare these projects. And I'm talking to my colleagues again. Dear colleagues, when you talk about the number of factions, please do not forget how many methods you have achieved this number. Note that you are sitting all silently!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u67	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Dear National Deputies, the proposal made by National Deputy Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich, is understood by the fact that the Preparatory Group is acting in accordance with the Rules to create committees. Then she can also work on the issue of making proposals for the selection of heads and first deputies of committee heads. If there is no objection, let us vote on this proposal. One minute! On the basis of the vote, right? People's Deputy Robber. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u68	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 222, Kiev]] Dear colleagues! I'm personally in charge of the faction. Since the last two weeks in the session room and in the media have been the facts of total corruption, bribery and blackmail of national deputies, I propose the creation of an investigative commission of the Supreme Council. It takes 150 votes to create a High Council investigation commission. We'll make a proposal to create a commission of inquiry on Tuesday. Please submit your nominations to the commission of inquiry. We must defend ourselves as Ukrainian national deputies and show the corrupt authorities all the depth of its fall. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u69	Thank you. I think we need to do this. The Supreme Council should support such a proposal. To justify this, please turn on the microphone of the national MP Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u70	It's the only Ukrainian faction. I want to speak out on the basis of the vote. Indeed, according to the Rules, the Preparatory MPs can work until the time of committee formation, but, honourable Members, this group was formed on the basis of this principle: one part of the representatives in this preparatory group worked on behalf of the political parties that won the elections, and the other part were representatives from the regions. To date, the Supreme Council has been politically structured, defined factions, defined the membership of virtually every member of these factions. We have about 20 nonfractional people left. So if we hold a meeting of the Preparatory Group, not the Conciliation Council, it won't match the structure of Parliament. Under such conditions, this proposal cannot be supported. We, by the way, respect the leader of the preparatory group, Mr. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, and you know that in voting for this candidacy, our faction also voted for him to lead the preparations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u71	For the reasons of the vote, please the People's Deputy Pravdenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u72	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Ludmila Suprun's previous speech called for cooperation, which I am deeply moved to do. But what cooperation could there be? What Victor Andriyovich said yesterday is to stop the persecution, what Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz said today, I'm going to give a particular example. You're looking at the most vetted editor in all of Ukraine: the 17th month we're being checked by the National Court of Auditors, the C.R.R.A., the D.A., and the last day before yesterday, we're being tested by a tax police that's all criminalized. Excuse me, how long can it take? Well, there's nothing there-- black or white cat. The check is unstoppable. Well, I'm going to put the editor's authority on this stand, so why go after the editors and the teams? Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the authority and authority of the Head of the Supreme Council, simply order that this be stopped. This is your newspaper, the newspaper of the Supreme Council. It's getting funny, it's like a farce. And we're talking about cooperation and reconciliation and all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u73	Thank you. For reasons of vote, turn on the microphone of Mr. Aleksandra Alexandrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for reasons of vote, so we will not vote on Peter Mikolaiovich's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, for reasons of vote. Evidently, Peter Simonck’s offer should be supported. Although on the other hand, this is a measure of leadership professionalism, as it is necessary for this work to be organized by it. But we will not pay attention to this, for we must look for a way out of the situation. I think we should ask the question in a slightly different plane. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you said several times that someone was blocking the Supreme Council. Notice, in the session room, the four factions are the majority, and they don't block, because they're in the minority. And then the question is, Who are you talking to? You've got most of it in your hands. But make all the decisions by your majority, accept them. You were elected one day, two hours later you could have made all the decisions, they should have been prepared. That's why we're not blocking. That's why we're blocking your colleagues. And what Ludmila Suprun says today is insulting.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u75	Please turn on the microphone of the people's representative of Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u76	Please tell your colleagues not to follow me in the Rules, you don't have to do this. So Ludmila Suprun is insulted in vain that her faction is not called that. Let's call our faction "socialists," the SPE, and so will others -- we're not going to get offended, because we need to speak in a concise way. And it's not the MPs they call guilty of getting into such a faction. And we didn't think of it, because this folklore is talking about, remember, when the election campaign went on, did you say how? "Of course I'll go to the election, and put the ballot in the box. And, of course, I will vote "For Jedu!"let him eat Ukraine!" It was, it wasn't our idea!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u77	For the record, the word is for the people's deputy of the Road. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of the Roadway.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u78	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 213, Kiev]] Thank you, Reverend Head of the Supreme Council. But I do have to call yours, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, attention to the need to comply with the Rules. It's not about letting someone make a deal. If we define the procedure, let's stick to it. I've got a line, and unfortunately I couldn't answer Mr. Taran right away: I've never made any statements about the claims of the "One Ukraine" faction on any of the other committees. Moreover, I was never authorized by the faction "The One Ukraine" to make any warnings about any claims. I have repeatedly emphasized this, including the representative of the Ukrainian Truth Editor. So your links aren't exactly relevant, I'll check. My statement, which was published yesterday, contains quite different ones to which I would like to draw attention. The fact is that the accusations that are being made against factions that do not make their proposals have no basis because they are interested in not being able to agree. We're going to propose the tenth, we're going to be able to form a package by the time we get there. By the way, no ultimatum warnings have been made, I'm paying attention to the principles of committee distribution. From the point of view of the four, there are constant suggestions on how to look at the formula. None of the representatives of the "One Ukraine" faction objected to any possibility of distribution. Therefore, there is no need to be devious, sit down at the negotiating table and distribute committees. If this is not done, two factions have the right to submit their package and really vote by a majority. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u79	I'm asking the People's Department of the Road to follow regulations. Replica, please. Turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u80	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Because this was spoken by a woman’s mouth, in a mild sense, it was a lie, a fiction that even some members of the "One Ukraine" faction voted for Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. We're fine with basic arithmetic. So don't worry, no one from the "One Ukraine" faction has voted for Martinyuk's candidacy. Now for Peter Mikolaiovich's offer. It should not be put to the vote because it is the responsibility of the Preparatory MP. And all of this is already laid down in the Supreme Council Rules. So we just have to give the task to the Preparatory MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u81	Thank you. Then I would ask you to arrange for each other not to be different. Since the name of the national MP Taran has been mentioned, turn on his replica microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u82	I'm happy to print what was on the Ukrainian Truth website with a link to Interfax-Ukraine, and I'll give it to you personally. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to support Simonck's proposal that the Preparatory MPs really need to work on the reconciliation of positions. But I am firmly opposed to Karpov's proposal that a working group be set up. I'd like to say one thing. What will be the representation of this working group? In what way will it be formed? Or is it the principle of how the Supreme Council of Ukraine was formed? And the last. We need to get out of this deadlock faster, and our faction no longer intends to participate in this mess. There's work in the districts to do, not to do this terrible waste of time. This is because "Edi" needs to attract a few committees today, and others need to leave some committees there, like health, motherhood and childhood and so on. It's all an illusion, wide enough to justify to people who seem to have reached consensus here. She's got the "Eda" to rule, let her rule the first pole!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I would ask you not to demean the importance of committees. We have all the committees that matter. The reason for the vote is the national MP, Czarnovil. Please turn on the microphone. And then we'll determine, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u84	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 116, Lviv region]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to say two things. First thing. A proposal was made, which in principle was illogical and put to the vote, but you did not respond to it and try to find the problem in others. You yourself have been asked to fully democratically determine the price of your positions, the cost of your job as a speaker, the first and second vice-species adequately for the committees. And then we'll go out and negotiate. You don't want to do that by talking about some abstract calculation, distribution and something else. That's not gonna be the job. One second. You are well aware that under no circumstances will the leaders of the factions, as long as this abuse of a number of deputies, of the representatives of their parties, no one normal will go to a meeting with you. So in order to unlock the work, and it's extremely normal to work, there's no more power from this ridiculous seat and break for a few days in a row, let's start the consultations openly, in the audience, in front of the press. Then there'll be less culinary work and more normal work. It's just another technical moment. Order them into the system, and you can identify the photo MPs on your computer, because besides your faction, you know five of the other factions and you probably don't speak to anyone else anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u85	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the price of posts will be set by the Conciliation Council, and it needs to gather to determine, agree and work. If that is not the case, then the result will be what it is today. Everything else I'm going to take and implement in my practical work. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to vote in favour of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek? None. Ladies and gentlemen, I am acting in accordance with the Rules. Please wait a minute. A proposal was made by National Deputy Kenzior to base the package on "Our Ukraine" and on this basis to do a proper job of bringing it into the session hall on Tuesday. In addition, the national deputy Karpov proposed to create a working group of factions that would deal with the problem in a substantive and direct way. Both the first and the second proposals in the final summary are that a meeting of the Conciliation Council should be held to determine the creation of a working group and the principles of its formation to reflect the interests of all deputies, factions and non-fractional ones, including the package that was submitted by "Our Ukraine". So we need to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Board to determine our follow-up. From the procedure, please turn on the microphone of the national MP Simonnka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u86	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Vladimir Mihajlovich, my proposal is based on a regulation. You, the leadership of the Supreme Council, are unable today to ensure normal work and make concrete proposals on behalf of the Conciliation Council. There is no need to establish an additional working group. We would have created it on Karpov's proposal if it were not for a regulatory rule. In this case, there is a regulatory rule. You've brought this matter to a standstill. The problem could be resolved on the basis of a regulatory rule, and the working group headed by Martinuk could, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules, prepare proposals for consideration by the session. There is no need to put the matter to the vote. It already automatically stems from the situation in the Supreme Council. Thank you, he doesn't need to be put to the vote, and I remind you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u87	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. As the name of the Supreme Council is mentioned, I would like to reiterate to you, Peter Mikolaiovich, and to all the journalists who, on my part and on the part of my colleagues, the First Deputy and Deputy, are doing everything necessary to ensure that the Supreme Council is working and moving forward. You do not want to acknowledge the results that are objective data and reality and work. You're blocking, including you, the work of the Supreme Council. The word “procedure ” is given by the national deputy Solomonine. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u88	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Now we're in a situation where we need to find a way out. This is the solution offered by the leader of our faction. And I propose this procedure for solving this issue. Before that, I would like to remind you that, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, on Fridays, when we work in the normal regime, an hour is scheduled for the statements of members on the record through the Secretariat on the question of "Rizzne". So there's a proposal to announce a one-hour break for the preparatory group and use this break for the speeches of the MPs on the recording of the question of "Rizzne." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u89	Thank you. The word from the procedure is given by the national deputy Boki. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u90	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] I'm out of procedure, I'm out of line. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u91	Please, with a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u92	I'm speaking for what reason. Here a representative of Ukraine spoke and protested against the faction's name being reduced and so on. I understand it's insulting, and it could be accepted, but it's not about one faction anymore, it's about four factions that have repeatedly been used the word "lost." This is what Medvedchuk, a deputy, said today. So I want to remind Victor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk that it is his faction and the faction of "The One Ukraine" that are the factions that have lost in these elections because they have received, as government factions, as political forces, the least votes. And it doesn't matter if you're here, they say, "fired up" and played in the hall, talking about someone losing. The party that lost is you. And as for you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. You blame the four factions here for not working constructively and so forth. He works unconstructively, on the one hand, the Head of the Supreme Council, because if the mountain does not go to Magomet, he must go to the mountain. There is the experience of your predecessors who found a common language with the opposition and organized normal work. And you're calling it a break all the time. Are you the head of the break already or what? Look, it's an insult to the legislature as such. So I think you need to conclude, not translate the blame into someone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u93	I'm asking you to follow the rules and I want to tell you, Mr. People's Commissioner Boki, that I'm not accusing, but I'm saying. That's a big difference. The people’s deputy, Matthew, has a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u94	Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Today, chosen by blackmail, threats, the purchase of national deputies by the leaders of the Supreme Council, as well as representatives of the presidential factions, want to impose an opinion on the media, the public, who are responsible for the unconstructive work of the factions who have made proposals for the committee’s leadership package. Where is the truth? When will you say it? Thus, two factions have not yet done anything to organize a constructive work of the Supreme Council. Where are your suggestions? That's why we're proposing to meet a temporary MP group without a vote, Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, this is her right under the Rules to meet on Monday, which is why it is necessary for the leader of this group to make an announcement. And to resolve these issues in the order of the Supreme Council of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u95	The people’s MP, Mokchan, has a word for replication. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u96	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! National MP Paul Mokchan. [[I'm making a point.]] Victor Yushchenka's Block, "Our Ukraine" faction, Ukrainian People's Movement. I'd just like to make a few points about the sensations that are now taking place in the hall. There was a reference to the fact that we're supposed to be working on the third floor, or journalists, but we know very well whose hands the media are in. And so far, only a little "tiny" newspaper is able to explain the truth. That's the first one. It's me up to that line that's already become dominant here, that it's like we're working on the media here, those who don't accept the rules that are imposed on us. And the second. Ladies and gentlemen, learn to count. You know what the results are, there's nothing to hide them. And you do everything the other way around, you put everything on your head and you pretend it's a normal situation. If we have outsiders, then, Your Honor, you have already gained instability on account of this situation, and it can be extremely dangerous for Ukraine. Whoever really wants Kuchma to be realized by 2011, that's never going to happen in life, you know very well why it won't happen. Keep going. I'd like you to agree to the principles that were proposed in the session room yesterday. There's a ball system. And the working group that made this proposal approved this decision. We just have to agree that the Chief of the Supreme Council is worth so many committees, the deputy is so much. And "To Jed!" Then there's no reason to count on anything, but the SDPU, which is zero after being replaced by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. This arithmetic must be principled, and it can only be arranged. But for the most part, the prerequisite applies to those under pressure. You want to add -- that's not going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u97	The name of the national MP Medvedchuk was mentioned, and he has the right to a replica. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, especially those who mention both the party and the name Medvedchuk. I'm going to lose, relative to zero and everything. This Tuesday, we showed you, Mr. Mukchan, and you, Mr. Bokki, how we know how to play. Get ready! The next Tuesday, we'll show again how we know how to play. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u99	The reply is given by the national MP of Barani. Please turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u100	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I respect your sympathy for individual deputies, especially when you're showing this to one of the women -- she's cute and she's able to perform 7-10 times an hour. But please give this opportunity to other deputies. And, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, after virtually choosing your quota for leadership positions in parliament, you are today proposing a scheme for the distribution of committees that reminds me of the hero in Vasilyev's film "Verilla in Malinovka" Popandopalo, who shared underwear, remember? "It's yours, it's yours," and he put it all in his pile. And that's why I think you're playing Popandopalo from Banking today, too, and you're proposing to agree to the distribution of committees in a way that they all fall into a pile of Banking, forgetting that then the underwear was being shared and that was happening in a gang, and you're now proposing this scheme in Parliament. Let us look at the matter constructively, and then the work will move. Peter Mikolaiovich here made an offer, so let the working group begin their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u101	I thank you for appreciating me so highly with regard to women. The people’s deputy Gurov has the floor. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u102	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 32, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] The Iron Crawbass. Dear colleagues! I'd like to tell you this. It is one thing to form party committees and another to think that at least the committee should work. That's what everyone forgets. So I have the next proposal to get out of this conflict. First. We've all submitted applications to the Apparatus for who's on the committee. There was no question as to which party. It was just professionalism. That's why I'm suggesting who didn't write it, let him write it now, too. And then, let's say, on the Industrial Policy Committee, 20 people, let's get these professionals together and pick a chair and his first deputy. A budget committee is being convened, and you can also choose for yourself. [[There are 120 of them.]] Then we'll have a job. I believe that this is the neutral offer of Major Gurov, and it is worth getting out of this conflict. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u103	Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u104	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Even though you are diligent in giving a more frequent word of opposition, you are the only one who gets more image and negative and you understand why the sympathy of this part of the room is not fast. So let us give the word in a comparable manner as requested by the deputies. What's the offer? There were two suggestions: Petra Mikolaiovich Simonenka and the faction of Ukraine. In honoring all the deputies, I would like to point out that in order to agree, we need to learn to listen first, to want to hear each other and to understand each other. We don't want to get together for the Conciliation Council, we don't want to hear, we don't want to or we don't want to understand each other. For some reason, the blame is conscious of what people do not think and what they no longer do. We voted for a run in Parliament without representatives of the "One Ukraine" faction. They didn't vote. The representative of the faction "Our Ukraine" was nominated. So there was only one way out, he was found. It doesn't work, let's get together, and don't make the same mistake with the committee distribution. Let us show both our desire and our ability to listen and agree. To do this, we need to gather the Conciliation Council. And put it to the vote. The more we talk, the more we will talk about the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Since the question was that we should be tasked with continuing to work for the Preparatory MP, and the sub-group dealing with committee formation is headed by the national deputy Karpov, he asks for an explanation. Turn on the microphone of the Karpov People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! The working group worked on the basis of the situation. This provision, which we have approved, states that it works for the election of the leadership of the Supreme Council, or Head and his deputies. There is a different norm in the Rules, so it is legally a colossal matter. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing the MP of Silence, and I'm stressing the silence, not the silence. We've been offering what you're talking about from the beginning. The working group did not support this algorithm; the faction leaders did not agree. Why do you now go back and blame those who insisted on this algorithm, on proms, and everything else? Now that you've lost, you're going back to these points. People of Goodness, Be Consistency! I firmly believe in one thing that the Preparatory MPs will not work constructively, because all the proposals she made, almost all, were blocked in the hall. So if you don't want to, faction leaders, then an initial working group will be set up, where we invite everyone who wants to work on a balanced document, and on Tuesday this document will be proposed. And when the vote is over, you know, because the results, as you say, are well known. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u107	Turn on the microphone of the National MP Mishura from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u108	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! During the time that followed the opening of the first session of the Supreme Council of the Fourth Council, we had the most fruitful two structures -- the Preparatory MP group led by Communist Martinyuk, and the interim Counting Commission led by Communist Michura. [[It's my personal opinion, not the faction's.]] I'll tell you why. For example, I had two substitutes for "Eda," or "Our Ukraine." [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, "The only Ukraine," "Our only Ukraine," so be it. The point is that the heads of these units listened carefully to every thought they heard, and in each of these thoughts, they made a balanced decision, so the work was effective. [[I don't want to be immodest.]] I'm sorry to call you so much, but you don't want to hear some of the thoughts that sound here in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u109	I thank the honourable MP Mishuri. I write down all the thoughts and suggestions, and then I announce them to you. The people’s deputy Boki has a word for it. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Here a deputy in response to my lineup threatened to show on Tuesday how they could win. There is no need for wisdom to win in order to win. And that's what everyone here understands. My advice is to win, not in the hall, but in the community. There are other qualities and factors that are needed. And one more thing. The broadcast of our session has now been turned off. I think the head of the Supreme Council should think about why.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u111	Thank you. We will now find out all the circumstances and give you information. The people’s deputy Sulkovsky has a word for replication. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u112	The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I propose to stop the discussion on this subject. I think we've already had a discussion today. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I suggest we take a few minutes off. During this break, gather all the faction leaders and agree on how to take a break - by Tuesday or Wednesday, prepare all the committees' distribution projects, and then we'll only be able to do some specific work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u113	Thank you. You heard the thought very much. The People’s Deputy of the Gmir has a word for replication. Please turn on the microphone. The next word to be said will be Chikal’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u114	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Here are two points of view. One regulatory element is to refer the matter to a legally constituted parliamentary group. The other is the one that Karpov just sounded. He said, "If the MPs insist on compliance with the Rules, we will act in a proactive manner without any Rules." Yeah, that's possible. Of course, many of the MPs have been raped. Here the colleague said that many dream of getting out of the coalition, but not yet. I hope we can get the majors to vote the way they want. Vladimir Mikhailovich! You can take this counter-regulatory decision out today. But what will that lead to? In the end, you will turn the Supreme Council into a dining hall, not only for journalists, but also for opposition deputies. If that's what you want, please go in violation of the Rules. It is necessary to act strictly under the Rules - to refer the matter to a working group decision in which, by the way, you have the majority and let it decide. If she offers a package, it'll be very good. [[to the deputat group, of course]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u115	Thank you. I'd just like to ask for one thing. Don't blame me for what I haven't done. I'm the head of the Supreme Council and I'm not going to stretch anything, I'm going to act in accordance with the Rules and your will, the national deputies of Ukraine. Turn on the microphone of the people's representative of Chicago.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u116	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 191, Hmelnicka district]] Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm making my proposal to create a working group of six factions that would identify candidates for committee heads and their first deputies. It's not a big secret that there's a lot of people in the session room who claim to be a committee. Then we have to make a draft decision that everyone would vote for, and by rating voting, we have to determine who's the biggest voter, and there will be no more delay. I'm sure yesterday's vote on the draft regulation of four has shown that we should seek compromise. That's the first one. The other one. It is not clear to me that those who have enforced the law on the mixed system today are so infamous that they are embellishing this law and demeaning the national MPs of the majors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u117	Thank you. The reply is given by the national representative of Cibenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u118	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Honorable deputies in the Presidium today! What's going on in the hall today is not the reason, it's the result that in a single branch of power, power is usurped. The President’s Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, and today the leadership of the Supreme Council express one person’s position. That is why we are reaping the results today. That's the first one. The other one. Today, quite actively, the representatives of the faction "To Jeda!"who offer a proportional principle that they didn't want to mention yesterday. So I wanted to remind them that they act as representatives of the "For Yedu" faction. In principle, let us eat yours first, and then each one his own. And there's one more thing I wanted to say. I propose that, honourable colleagues, now stop the discussion, allow Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to announce the meeting of the MP's working group to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u119	Thank you. The people’s deputy Kalinchuk has a word for it. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u120	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 144, Odessa Region]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Deputies! I'm a member of the task force. I want to remind those deputies who are also members of the Preparatory Group that our subgroup led by Karpov has worked on several algorithms for committee formation, election of committee heads and their first deputies. But this proposal did not find support, and that is why. The MPs of the Preparatory Deputies have made such an offer that no matter what we prepare or what we do, the faction leaders will decide. So we give them priority in solving this issue. And so I'm asking the faction leaders to gather together, to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council, or otherwise you can call it, but this is a matter that needs to be resolved, because once again the Preparatory MPs will meet, but it will be just a recommendation and our proposals if they don't agree with the faction leaders, they'll "sink" in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u121	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Mishura for replication, and we'll take a risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u122	The Communist faction. I want to speak to my colleague, Chickal. Perhaps he should know that the person who pushed the Law on Elections of National Deputies under the Mixed System is the deputy of Mishur, who headed the special commission for the drafting of the Law, and for nine months we were unable to push it. But in this regard, I want to say that there is a political majority in society today. Please make the percentages that the opposition has received, and you will see that this political majority is, but in the Supreme Council and in society at all, there is no mechanism for implementing this political majority. The Law on the Election of National Deputies for a Proportional System was just such a mechanism, but the President of our country did not want to have this mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's sum it up and figure out how to keep working. Indeed, it is possible and necessary for the Preparatory Parliamentary Group to work. In doing so, I would like to point out that its work will be of a purely recommendational nature, and one way or another, we should come and come to what the Conciliation Council is going to have to meet in order for its members to first agree on each other and determine the principles of approach, methodology. Then this group would work more effectively. [[or we could create another working group]] The main thing that is necessary for the Conciliation Council to meet is desire. The proposals were made here, and I support them, and I also ask you to agree to a recess. Let's figure out how long it's going to be. It takes a methodological approach for the Conciliation Council to meet, and then we started moving on, and on Tuesday and Wednesday, we could offer an acceptable package for the entire Supreme Council. Let's figure out how long to take a break. There's an offer by Tuesday. I ask you to prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. People's deputies please come into the session room. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please make up your mind. "To" - 171. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear National Deputies! I don't think there's any need to comment. In view of the absence of the proposed proposal and the need for a meeting of the Conciliation Board to be held, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. I invite the faction leaders to meet in the opposite room in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u124	Dear National Deputies! Please take your jobs. We're continuing our work. Dear National Deputies! Let me inform you that, despite the invitation, representatives of the four factions - "Our Ukraine", the Communist Party of Ukraine, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko did not appear at the Conciliation Council meeting, once again blocking the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[I want to emphasize, the official invitation of faction leaders]] And this is despite the fact that they are representatives of the factions who proposed to hold such a meeting. [[I'd like to stress that.]] Dear National Deputies! I'm asking the Gmir People's Deputy to follow the basic rules of conduct. So, honourable national MPs, we need to probably exchange our thoughts, express our voices, and we still have half an hour to deal with the issue of "Variance" in order of the day, where all thoughts, wishes and suggestions that should be taken into account in the work can be expressed within an hour of the recording. People's deputies would like to sign up for communication. Please turn on the "Council" system, and as long as the recording goes on, the people's deputy of the gmir has the word "rapture." Please point it on the board. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP, Gmiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u125	Vladimir Mikhailovich! I still ask you to abide by the Constitution. The fact is that, under the Ukrainian Constitution, it is simply not technically possible to block the work of the Supreme Council. There are people in the Supreme Council, they can work at the meeting. By the way, the fact that it is impossible to block the work of the Supreme Council shows how the leadership has been elected. As far as I know, there were no meetings of the Conciliation Council, since you could not and could not fulfil your responsibilities, however, leadership was chosen. I'm sorry, you really couldn't gather, you weren't the Chairman back then. However, the management was elected, despite the fact that there were no meetings of the Conciliation Council. Therefore, the Supreme Council may work, even though you cannot convene a Conciliation Council. Agree that this is your fault, because you are the President of the Supreme Council, as far as I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u126	Thank you. I would like to say, Mr. People's Deputy, that before the election, there were four factions of two factions in six factions and consultations. Yes, there is obviously part of the blame of the Supreme Council Head for not being able to gather the leaders of the political parties. But I think there is a Rules, there is a commitment of national deputies who rely on them to lead factions. And you just have to do what you have to do. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Sobolev, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u127	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you. "Our Ukraine." I'd like to refer to the chairman for his deception first of all by using these on the so-called Conciliation Council. The Conciliation Board will start its work only from the moment 24 committee heads are elected. There are six factions in Parliament today, and there are executive positions: the Heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy and Deputy. That's when the committee heads were elected and the Conciliation Council of factions started. So far, consultations are under way. Unfortunately, after the election of the Head of Parliament, when the key rule of the Proportional Representation Rules was violated, there was a crisis in Parliament. The outcome of the crisis was indicated yesterday. It is that if we continue to implement the principle of proportional distribution, this principle requires that all positions be taken into account. Those factions who have chosen their quota of office do not have the right to claim the positions of committee heads and deputies. It's the only way out today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u128	Thank you to the distinguished national MP Soboljev, while at the same time reminding me of the rule of the Rules, which is called upon by the national MP Soboljev. The Conciliation Board of Deputies is composed of the Head of the Supreme Council, the heads of the parliamentary factions with the right to vote. [[fractions]] In the work of the Conciliation Board of Deputies, representatives of the Head of the Supreme Council, head of the Committees of the Supreme Council, with the right to consult. There is, therefore, good reason for holding meetings of the Conciliation Council. Please turn on the microphone of National MP Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u129	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You remember yesterday's and today's statements by the leaders of the factions of the Quartet: the Socialist Party, the Communists, our Ukraine, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, that factions' leaders will be working on the Conciliation Council when the pressure on the People's Deputies of factions stops. It would be appropriate to contact you, either the President’s Administration or the tax administration, so that the pressure would stop. Otherwise, we see that there will be a crisis that will lead to the fact that the "four" will not participate actively in the division of board positions. Then take the committees and continue to take responsibility for the work of the Supreme Council -- two factions: Ukraine and SDPU. Or take off the pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honorable People's Deputy Rudzkowski. Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Kravczuk Leonid Makarovich, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u131	National Deputy of Ukraine (Balgato-mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). I ask you to pass the word to Victor Medvedchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u132	Turn on the microphone of the Medvedchuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u133	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Whatever the crisis is in Parliament, the crisis is in the hands of those who talk about it all the time. Parliament is working and living a normal life, preparing for successful action next Tuesday to neutralize the activities of the four factions aimed at breaking the normal legislative process. I think that the sober forces in Parliament are enough to agree on all the issues by Tuesday, to make a draft decision and to resolve the last organizational issue of the approval of the heads and the first deputies of the committee heads. As of next week, this normal legislative work will begin once the issue is resolved, and it will once again confirm to those who excite the situation in Parliament and in society that there is no crisis, but there is a normal job to which the majority in this room are capable.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u134	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of National Deputy Saligin, faction of "The One Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u135	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Gladys Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u136	Turn on the microphone of the Gladys People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u137	National deputy of Ukraine. [[election district 179, Kharkiv region]] Dear National Deputies! I liked Timoshenko, the last paragraph where she said that they had lost two weeks. So I think you're losing these four factions again these two weeks, and then there's going to be another charge that these two factions have united. Therefore, I support Mr. Medvedczuk — these two factions must unite, enter into negotiations, deliver their package and vote on Tuesday. And to blame us, no matter what we do, they will. That's why I support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u138	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u139	Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The second time today is Mr. Medvedchuk's statement, which can be seen differently, including as the preparation of another coup d'état within the walls of the Supreme Council. At least that's how I feel about it. That's the first one. Second thing I'd like to say. Dear Mr. Chairman! You have no right to comment on the statements made by the deputies. You have no right to do so. You must bear in mind that the President of the Supreme Council is the first one to be equal and that every MP has the same right to express his opinion. Third thing I'd like to say. The fact that there is no agreement at the meetings of the so-called Conciliation Council reflects only one thing: that the leadership of the Supreme Council is unable to organize a normal process of work of the Supreme Council. Because power has actually usurped one political force, one and a half factions, in the Supreme Council. Finally, the last. It is absolutely logical that the Communists did not participate in this meeting, first, because, I have already stressed, the usurped power in the walls of the Supreme Council, and secondly, we have made a completely different proposal, which was to allow Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to announce the meeting of the Preparatory Group and to terminate the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u140	I thank the National Deputy of Zibank. I am sure that I will take into account further work, in keeping with article 3.1. 3 Rules that the presiding officer shall have the right to correct the factual errors made in the statements made in the plenary session. National Deputy of Ukraine Sulkovsky, faction of "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u141	The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Before the break, I really offered to take a break so that I could meet with you as speaker for six faction leaders. This was not the case, so the four of them did not show up. And it did not appear to me that, as you have heard during the morning discussions, there is pressure on the four factions and their supporters throughout Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you as a speaker. When the break comes, Vladimir Mikhailovich, by Tuesday, I understand that you must go to the President’s Administration, contact all the executive authorities in Ukraine to put an end to this disgraceful phenomenon of persecution and pressure on national MPs. And there is such a request to you in closing, Vladimir Mikhailovich: no way can you, as a speaker, accept the offer made today by Mr. Medvedchuk. He says that if all six factions can't agree, then we have to complete and draw our conclusions one more time, i.e. two factions -- "the only Ukraine" and "the SDPU". I'd like to ask you -- don't let that happen, because if you let it happen and there's going to be a distribution of seats on the committees between these two factions alone, there's practically no parliamentary activity. So there's a request to take a break, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think, by Tuesday and as a speaker, to make every effort to get six faction leaders to sit down with you and agree to clearly develop a project according to proportional quotas. And when you do that, I'm deeply convinced that at 10 o'clock on Tuesday, everything will go as it should, and Parliament will be viable for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u142	Thank you very much. National Deputy of Ukraine Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u143	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would ask you to understand that with your election as Head of the Supreme Council, your role has changed, and who, if not you, must protect the deputies who are being attacked by the President's Administration. You worked there yesterday, and today your role is to protect them. And I think their demands are pretty legal and right. And then they will meet regularly for a meeting of faction leaders who today, as you say, do not want to come to you. Then they will walk. That's the first one. The other one. Here individual factions were threatened, not assured, but threatened to resolve all these issues next Tuesday. We know their talents, how they know how to do it, and we know how last Tuesday, what efforts, and at what prices the Presidium was chosen. Then perhaps they should announce today the prices that will be in effect next Tuesday, and perhaps they would rather have these packages for the distribution of committees. And lastly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. After all, you have most of it today, in "The Jedi" and in "The Badger." Well, don't blame us for blocking, solving questions, sharing committees, and let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u144	Thank you. Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u145	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 129, Mikolaiivsk region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We need to understand what happens after the election. People nostalgic about pedestals and rematches teach you daily how to be the Head of the Supreme Council. And this will continue, they will catch on every word, and there will be no constructive work of the Supreme Council. Today, none of the leaders of the four factions honestly stated that he would not participate in further negotiations. When it came to action, no one appeared. Today, Parliament is talking about a parliamentary crisis. It's the pressure on our voters, it's creating conditions to blame the winning bloc. That's why I have this offer. Today, we make a decision that would force the Conciliation Council to come together. Or faction leaders should be honest, publicly stating that they do not want to participate and negotiate. That's the first one. The other one. Calmly announce a break until Tuesday to discuss all these issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u146	Thank you. National MP Domansky, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u147	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u148	Turn on the microphone of the national MP Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u149	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! It seems that everyone understands why the leaders of the four factions do not attend the invitation of the Chief of the Supreme Council to the Conciliation Council. Because what happened on Tuesday, when the heads of government were called here for a few days, when some Ukrainian ministers called MPs and threatened that if they didn't personally support the candidature, they knew what they would do with them, that's all that's the moral of the leader we'd like to look after today, the whole Supreme Council. And when immorally choosing the direction of the Supreme Council, how can we, the people’s deputies, go to similar meetings? Now, about some of the statements that just came out. I would like to ask you, Your Honor, when you seek protection and escape from your own people, from criminal responsibility to the Supreme Council, when you have corrupted the authority of Ukraine throughout the world by overthrowing civilian aircraft, please think about what you are talking about. This is your responsibility when it comes to constructiveism. In constructive terms, the Ukrainian army can only shoot at horns, and nothing can be allowed to do with it. So I urge you not to accuse now, do not split the Supreme Council, but be responsible for what you did when you elected the Head of the Supreme Council. We'll tell the truth to the people anyway. And for the way they went with diplomats, the money was offered to the people's deputies, rejecting the floor and showing how much was in their pocket for every mandate. Have a conscience, after all. That's why I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. When you accuse us, national deputies and leaders, you know my principled position. I'm ready to cooperate, we've proposed a list. And today you're trying to reach out only to satisfy the interests of those who have come in an unfair way, who haven't found the support of the people you've drawn here. That's the difference between our approaches. That is why we are not going to work like this, to maintain the point of view that you are imposing on us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! Don't blame me for anything. Javorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, faction of "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u151	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] Jovkovsky district, Lvivščina Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Let's look at the situation that might be the way out of it. After 226 "miners" pedanticly replaced the situation in the Supreme Council and we don't know who holds the subversive device after the greatest faction of all time and peoples was created "For Jedu!"in fact, since then we've come to a dead end. Here, the general, the former secretary of defense, said it was a faction of the winners. I think they're the same winners as the victorious Ukrainian army that got on a Russian plane with its rocket. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you understand very well that the biggest crisis in the Supreme Council is not a political crisis, it's a crisis of mistrust in leadership. We don't trust each other right now, we're practically reminding each other of the thimbles. We understand very well that if you took the lead and practically chose your quota, it is quite clear that it would be possible, let's say, to make a mark and vote in favour of a draft decision that was made by four factions. That's not what happened. What will happen next? From my point of view, it's going to look like this: on Tuesday, you're going to draw a little bit more people to yourself, you're going to vote for the choice that suits you, and the power is going to go completely to you. I think it's a very normal way out, and that's what's gonna happen on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u152	The word is given to the national deputy Jeremiah, "the only Ukraine". Prepare Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u153	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 23, Volinsk Region]] Please give the floor to the National Deputy Tihypka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u154	Please turn on the microphone of Deputy Tihypak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u155	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! We've tried to get together with faction leaders a few times. So I have this proposal: to allow every faction by Tuesday to determine its solution for the election of committee heads and first deputies, to come to the Supreme Council on Tuesday with these options and to offer them to other colleagues. Anyone who wants to talk to each other, who wants to somehow coordinate their decisions during this work, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday will find each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u156	The word is given to the national MP of Loboda. Get Philenck ready. There's no freedom. Philenko. Prepare Matviyenko. There's no Philenck. Matvienkov. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u157	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Dear Presidium! Dear colleagues! I think the situation is clear. We shouldn't be wasting our time to do what no one needs, let's just say it, an exchange of views. Therefore, I have a proposal for the Bureau to suspend until Tuesday. Indeed, if the Conciliation Council is unable to gather, there is a full moral and legal basis for the two factions to assemble, to work out a package and to go to a productive vote on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u158	Thank you. Glacier, Communist faction. Prepare the Holy One. There's no Lechchenka. Swatkov, faction of Ukraine. Get ready for Borschevsky. There's no wedding. Borszewski, a faction of Communists. None. Rubinsky, "The only Ukraine." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u159	Thank you. Your Honor is presiding! Dear National Deputies! I think there was an optimal one here among those proposals, versions and variants, given that on board 12.57. We really, really want to or don't want to, we have to meet in this session room at 10 o'clock on Tuesday. Those who do not want to meet here have the full right to be outside the session room and to consult there. However, honourable deputies, I am convinced that most of the deputies -- those who have been sent here to work on the laws, to work on the issues that the people need, not to satisfy the interests of the parties -- will work here because the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot today become the election headquarters of the October 2004 elections. If so, obviously the laws you have come here to enact cannot be adopted. So I support the proposal of the National Deputy Tihypak. On Tuesday, those factions or groups of factions who really want to participate in the legislative process should offer their options for the distribution of the positions of heads and first representatives of the committee heads so that we can vote in favour of these options. And whoever gets more votes, advocates and supporters of democracy, who are so many, turns out, in this room, they're going to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u160	Thank you. National Deputy of Ukraine Komar, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u161	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 51, Donetsk Region]] Dear comrades! I think it was a very good suggestion: whoever wants to work has to work, who doesn't want to work -- well, it's on his conscience, and God judges him. That's why we came to the break, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Tuesday, we want to or we don't want to, we're going to be in this room, and we need to have projects from our two factions and those who will vote with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u162	National Deputy Alexandrovsky, Communist faction. None. People's MP Mishur. Nor is it. National Deputy Shevchuk, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u163	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. Dear colleagues! Today, there was much discussion about the project that the Supreme Council rejected because it did not get the right number of votes. I want to go back to him and remind my colleagues there that, in form and content, this bill simply could not be adopted by the Supreme Council. In the form that he was prepared with numerous violations of the Rules, as set out in the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. But there's also an interesting question about the content of the Quartet's proposals for the heads of the Supreme Council committees. The greatest surprise to those who read carefully was the suggestion that the Agrarian Policy Committee should be headed by a representative of the KPU, who had always been a supporter of the colporteur system. The proposal of "Our Ukraine" to propose leadership by this important committee is of great surprise to such a representative. Even more surprising was the joint work of Communists and motorists on important committees on national defence, economic policy, freedom of speech, and others. Well, the distinguished representatives of our Ukraine, have you lost your ideologies and your principles? In this vocation, evidently as the classical wrote, the principle of your faction did not even stay overnight. Clearly, then, such a bill could not be supported. And next week will be a week of making a good, concrete, deliberate decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u164	Thank you. National Deputy Drogunzov, Communist faction. None. People's Deputy Landik, faction of Ukraine. Do you give up your word? The people's deputy, Matthew, is missing. National Deputy Suprun, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u165	Thank you. It's the only Ukrainian faction. At my address today, there were four appeals, and after each of them under the Rules, I had the right to a replica, but I did not take advantage of it. As far as I’m concerned, I only speak when I’m given a word under the Rules or by members of our faction. So the charges of giving a word are unfounded. All our suggestions have been made. The Conciliation Council is fully authorized by all Ukrainian national deputies. So if there is no constructive work, I think there is good reason to work in such a regime to unlock the work of the Supreme Council and move on to legislative activity. This is a position that today is made by many members of the "One Ukraine" faction from the faction of the Social Democrats. [[United]] And maybe it should come true next week by making the right decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time today, we may have seen that all who wanted to speak have taken advantage of their rights. According to the 13-hour regulation, we're spending an hour on "Variance." The national deputy Solomonine, the national deputy Jovtjak, the national deputy Phydenko, and the Zarubinsky people’s deputy were enrolled earlier in the talk. Is there a wish to speak yet? People's deputy Solomonine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u167	Thank you. Communist faction, Kyiv district. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to dedicate my first thesis to you. Everybody knows you're a great scientist, in terror and terrorism, "knowed the sound." Your scientific intelligence on this subject should be representative, and I hope that I can get it from your hands for a thorough study. But what I would like to ask you right now is, during this new edition of this scientific intelligence, is it a chapter or chapter entitled "Terror in Ukraine at the beginning of the third millennium, and above all in the Supreme Council of Ukraine"? I would like to ask you, if not publicly, publicly after my speech, at least in private, to answer that question. Well, that's my second thesis. There's this notion of "colaborationism," it got into political circulation after World War II. The collaborators in all countries of Europe who opposed Hitler’s Gulf identified those who voluntarily served German invaders. At the same time, there is the notion of "political collaborationism," that is, the use of other political forces that may or may not be present in the state, is outside of it. First of all, I'm talking about the political forces to which the foreign policy course of Ukraine is now directed -- the United States of America, the European Union and NATO. Don't you think as a scientist, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, that sooner or later there will be a time when all that is being done today will be recognized as political, perhaps not just political, collaborationism? And in the judgment of the nations, a new Nuremberg account will be presented to those who proposed and who conducted the course. I very much ask you to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u168	Thank you very much. People's deputy Yöttek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u169	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 95, Kyiv region]] The faction "Our Ukraine", the Irpinsky and the Kyewoshin constituency. I would like to draw the attention of all colleagues and government officials who are obliged to follow Ukraine’s legislation, to the fact that in Ukraine there is a gross violation of the legislation on nonconformity. On Tuesday, the President's Administration appointed the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litvina, despite the fact that a decree had not been formally issued to date on his release from office as Head of the President's Administration. Such decrees have been published for all ministers, for all the heads of the district government, who have become national deputies. The only one against whom the decree has not been published is Vladimir Litwin. This is a gross violation of Ukrainian legislation, this is a gross violation of the President's decree on the order of publication of regulations and laws of Ukraine. This is my conclusion: since Vladimir Litwin was certified by a national deputy, he probably gave the Central Electoral Commission a forged copy of the President's decree, and there is no real presidential decree with the President's signature in nature. I mean, Vladimir Litwin became an illegal national deputy, was an illegal governor of the Supreme Council, and as a result, the Supreme Council became a department of the President's Administration. And the second question that I would like to address today is the issue of terror in the Kyiv region by the head of the District State Administration of the Drought about people, about enterprises, institutions and organizations, whose leaders or employees supported the Victor Yashchenka Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". In particular, today there is a harsh interference of the district administration with the work of the public organization, the consumer cooperation of the Kyiv region, which is being destroyed because its leader, Vladimir Pak, was a member of the constituency block "Our Ukraine." I demand an end to these thefts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u170	Thank you. People's MP, Phydenko. Next is the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u171	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! Your Honor is presiding! Recently, all of us have survived an extremely important political campaign -- elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result of the elections that took place with the enormous increase in administrative resources, intimidation, and threats, we have received a parliament that is in a political position on the road. It is not enough that the law and the Constitution have been scrutinized in the elections that we have seen in the walls of the Supreme Council that the political practice of Parliament has been subject to dirty methods: bribery, blackmail, police pressure, prosecutors, taxpayers. The echoing of the elections in the worst possible way continues throughout Ukraine. It won't be gone long. Many people suffer for their honest stand in the elections, for having the courage to stand up as a candidate for the national MPs, speaking before the electorate, criticizing the politics of today’s regime. Today, they suffer, they are released from work on various occasions. I mean, it's a specific case. In Volin, in Ratne, he works as director of the Kulik Vladimir Mikolaiovich High School. He is the first secretary of the Ratniv Paradise Company of Ukraine. He's a respectable, authoritative man. By the way, this school is the best in the area, one of the best in the area. The Communists of Volini nominated Kulik as a candidate for the People’s Deputies in the Kovell constituency. Of course, everything was done so that he would not be chosen. Of course, there are good luck and failures in the elections. What's more, we all know how they went. But that's not the point. The Governing Body of Volina and the Ratni district decided to train an unruly directorate, and he was released from work on a premeditated basis — the abuse of his job, the violation of his work discipline. In fact, a political execution was made against the school’s principal. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I see in your handwriting, because you were still the head of the President's Administration, and you were often sent out by teams that allowed the district administration to obey your orders to release politically disagreeable people from positions. Please, if you are an honest and principled man, respect the law and justice, give a protocol commission to the Minister of Education, to the administration of Volinsky County to stop the persecution of Kulik Vladimir Mikolaiovich and restore justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u172	Thank you. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u173	I'm waiting for an official answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u174	It must be Zarubinsky’s MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u175	Dear National Deputies! First, a small trailer. There have been several times in the Hall talking about the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the President's Administration. I'd like to remind Mr. Jovtak, who said this one more time, which he seems to have no less reason to say that he was in this room than the President's administration "appointed" his current faction chief. If he does not know it, let many deputies of the past call confirm it. If you want, I'll prove it to you. But that's not why I came out here. What's going on here makes me think that some people have forgotten about the main thing that the electorate sent us here to do. And this inertia of pre-election battalions is leading people around this session hall -- from one microphone to another, multiplying the infinite number of versions on the emotional theme of who ever and how to outsmart. A whole group of professionals, experts in such an unexpected virtual sector, appeared. But we have to hope, your honors, that next week is going to be a breakthrough in our work and we will finally get to the rule of law. For life is not in its place. But I'm talking about something else. A recent decision has been made by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine that Ukraine is launching an integration process, the ultimate goal of which is to fully join NATO. Publicists and individual politicians already call this decision sensational, interesting, such that it puts an end to a degree of uncertainty in the foreign policy course of the State. He was also named by the President of the country, stressing the need for general awareness that the North Atlantic Union is a structure that truly provides European security, and that is why Ukraine attaches importance to relations with the Alliance. For most of us, such a decision is not unexpected. We went to him objectively long ago, declaring our foreign policy priority as a European choice and working successfully with NATO under the Partnership for Peace programme and the Charter for Ukraine-NATO special partnership. Prejudice on such cooperation has gradually gone back to the Supreme Council, and, according to numerous statements, the irreversible rapprochement with the alliance has been recognized by virtually all factions, especially since the relationship between Russia and NATO. [[It's been a surprise for a lot of people.]] Ladies and gentlemen, without taking the time limit, I would like to make another point. We are very often looking at Europe and doing the right thing in terms of its undeniable achievements in the economy, in terms of technology, prosperity, a high European standard of living, and so forth. But we cannot help but analyze the problems that are present in Europe today. For example, France recently experienced a real shock when faced with the threat of ultra - right forces at the helmsman of the nation’s cleansing from Le Penn’s immigrants. It is a country that, by the way, the first in the European Union to propose sanctions against Austria, where elections to the government coalition resulted in the extreme rights of the Heider Freedom Party. Let's add to that the murder of Dutch extreme right-wing politician Pym Fortain, whose party list, by the way, has taken second place in the election race. I can just hypothetically imagine that the Council of Europe would talk about Ukraine if anything like this happened in Ukraine. And here! I am not a supporter of this party, but the one who was killed the day before the election was the one who led the party that won 16 percent of the voters in a week. Europe is silent! I would like, Your Honor, to express my opinion. As a proponent of European integration, I don't think we need to keep on, as they say, burning our heads with ashes. We should be proud, dignified, and dignified as a European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u176	Thank you. People's MP, and that's it, the list is exhausted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u177	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, such meetings take place at the end, not at the beginning of the vocation. [[From the experience of my delegation, or parliamentaryism in the thirteenth year, I can say]] The halls are always crowded, and there is a eager desire to solve all the problems facing society. I'm looking at the hall, and it'll make me think about what I'd like to share with you, including Vladimir Mikhailovich, personally with you. You're a very nice and smart person, and I know a lot of your positive qualities that I'm appealing to. If we're going to start like this, it's going to be sad. Think about one thing. We are faced with draft laws that need to be adopted urgently. You need to correct a lot of valid laws -- the whole base. In these laws, some wanted to go even to the Supreme Council when they spoke of VAT. Do you remember "Beautiful Ukraine"? It's not beautiful words, it's urgent problems! The Sequestre that will be applied this year, by my calculations, at a total of up to 5 billion, is a colossal blow to the state of society, at the rhythm of life at all levels. What does that mean? It's easy to predict. I cannot understand the logic of the conduct of those who want to absoluteize power in Ukraine. What are you counting on? In the past, there was a great Soviet ideology, a great mythology that formed, promised and inspired people. You cannot tie a knot simply because they are people of one’s own interests. If it's just one's own interests, not general ones, this system or anti-system won't last long. You know very well about this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as a historian. Leo Gumilov said these chimeras are short-lived. [[He used the term chimera.]] And that's why I'm calling you: find an opportunity to see the perspective of Ukraine. All we've been offered is a deaf angle. Tuesday, according to one of the winners who thinks he's a winner, will be the ultimate consolidation of victory. [[Victor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk has already declared himself a winner]] We can't let that happen! That's going to mean the blockage, the non-productiveness of committee work. This will mean that we are watering. Dear and dear my friend Zarubinski! You refer to European schemes, to European rules of combat. If they won the right ones, that doesn't mean they're fascists or nationalists, like we tend to treat. The European community is struggling with globalism, an absolutely natural phenomenon. This ideologie of globalism has caused this. What moves us to the model we are offered? Give everything to those who have everything and add everything you want from the budget! You want to control the budget, you want to control the entire field of legislation, you want to implement your rules of the game! Think of tomorrow! No, we want to change. We do. Listen to me!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u178	May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies? How much do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u179	I'm finishing up because you've been provoking me to continue the subject. I'd like to say one thing. When Viktor Andriyovich came to the government and changed the rules of the game, we accepted them, but they were for a narrow circle of people, groups, people who were inconvenient, they were broken! You want the Ukrainian business to develop. How can it develop? You're gonna get an azac truck tomorrow, whoever's coming. Your Honor, this is the way to nowhere. Think about it! I urge you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in view of taking on this responsibility, to realize that there are tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and the four years of our coexistence in these walls. [[or she's been laid upon you.]] If we are responsible, let everyone be responsible. And if you want to share this responsibility with each other, it's absolute irresponsibility, it's the death of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u180	Thank you. The name of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy was mentioned. Turn on his replica microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to endure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u181	I'm totally tolerant. I just wanted to say that there's a saying here about the desire to conquer absolute power, but those people haven't yet become in a European sense the winners' words, because that takes 50 percent plus one vote. They didn't even get a quarter vote. They just came and announced a change of 17 governors. They just came in and served only their representatives in four packs and did not present any nominations to represent the 180 - page faction. Let's take a look at it first, maybe we have a log in our eye somewhere, not looking for garbage in someone else's. You're not even in power yet, but you're ready to complete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-31-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear national deputies, all who wanted to speak today, spoke. With regard to specific presentations, we will prepare a commission and will be informed about the outcome of these appeals. I would like to make it official for you, honourable national deputies, and for the press corps to say that I am clearly following the laws of Ukraine, and after being elected as a national deputy, I have issued all the necessary documents. On April 29, the president of Ukraine signed a decree on my release, which was reported in the media. The necessary documents are in the Central Electoral Commission, in the Office of the President's Personnel, here, in the Office of Personnel. I think if I wanted to, it would take five minutes to check the information so as not to assume such a voter charge. I want to say to the People's Deputy, that during my office at the President's Administration, I never gave instructions on people's release. This is not true either. Dear National Deputies! There is a need to consult. In fact, we expressed all our thoughts, our positions, our visions. Obviously, we could continue our work now in factions and continue our session on Tuesday at 10 a.m. I thank you for your attention. And I officially invite the leaders of the MP factions to the Conciliation Council, which will take place at 2 p.m. today. Good-bye.
