ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u1	I'm asking you to give me my card back so I can work. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down and take your seats. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:06:12]] Registered -386 There are 386 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Komara Mikoli Stepanović. [[Applause]] And Rudzikowski Mikolaiovich, who was 35 years old. Let's say hello, we wish him all kinds of good things. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with the Rules, I am reporting the withdrawal of the "Our Ukraine" faction of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Master Vladimir. Dear National Deputies! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. People's deputies please sign up for a statement. Please sign up for applications, messages and suggestions, while I announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the premises of the Corobchin School of Public Education in the region of Kirovograd. Explain the entry first, please. Yes, thank you. Yeah, I'll bet. Have they all been enlightened? 102 national deputies registered. Thank you. I am voting for the request by Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the premises of the Corobchin Public Education School of the Novomirgorod region of Kirovograd. [[10:08:52]] For 148 Decision taken. Viacheslav Koval to the minister of state of emergency and protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in order to determine the circumstances of Kachula’s removal as a participant in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:25]] For 148 Decision taken. Yuri Boyka to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of an autonomous heating system in the city of Berezan of Kyiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:50]] For 1052 Decision taken. Sergia Slabenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gasification of a city-type village Lyoml and the construction of a children's food combination in Volodymyr Wallinsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:18]] For-92 Decision taken. Jurija Bojarka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the renovation of the National Museum in the city of Berezan, Kyiv district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:46]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Paul Silent to the minister of culture and art of Ukraine for the closure of the Odessa National Science Library of the name of Gorkok in connection with the accident of the building. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:16]] For-138 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Social Policy and the work of Ukraine on the social situation in the village of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:43]] For 114 Decision taken. Anatoly of Seminoga to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in connection with failure to administer the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Poltav region of the court’s decision to recalculate the pension of Major Korjak. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:15]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations by officials of the Montenegrin District Administration, Theophil Bauer, Dmitri Mironyuk, of human constitutional rights to freedom of speech, to obtain information, to express their thoughts freely. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:50]] For 172 Decision taken. Mikhail Siatini and Oreste Klimpush to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2002 and the decision of the Zacarpathian District Council for the granting of subsidies to the budgets of Wolowitz, Mižgirski, Rakhivski, Tatovsky and Hustov region. I'll bet you a vote on the motion, [[10:13:27]] For-97 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on information concerning violations of the rights and legitimate interests of journalists, the chief editor of the newspaper "PIC" of the city of Berdjansk Andrija Bagnuk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:00]] For-140. To 140. Decision taken. Yes, the questions I have all made and we have voted. Let's move on to the announcement of requests, statements, messages and proposals from the national MPs. Please, Kruczkov Georgi Korniyovich. Please proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are three requests to you personally. First. Since there was a so - called secret roll-call vote yesterday, his results in a personal file with the national MPs. The other one. To entrust the Legal Authority and the Scientific and Experimental Date of Conclusion how legitimate it is to vote on a so-called batch method. And the third. How right is it to make decisions without discussion? And the last. To bring to us who the so-called majority voted for, because here I'm congratulating the committee's head, and he says he doesn't agree that he was elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u3	Regarding the results of the vote. Yesterday, they were announced by the head of a temporary reckoning commission regarding the conclusion of the Scientific and Legal Department. I'm going to ask you to make these conclusions. Let's move on to making applications, requests and messages. National MP Mironenko, Communist faction. Get ready, Ivancho.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u4	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u5	Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u6	Respectable voters. [[Simonenko, the Communist faction]] You were able to read yesterday about developments in the Supreme Council, based on media reports: television, radio and newspapers. I officially declare on behalf of our faction that a crime took place yesterday in the walls of Parliament, with the participation of the so-called majority formed with the direct involvement of the President, at his greatest pressure and the President's Administration, with the participation of the forces and the violation of all morals of the principles of legality, when they were simply mocking the people's deputies. Yesterday, the issue of the President of the National Bank was resolved by unlawful blackmail and pressure in the walls of the Supreme Council. We have witnessed with you the cynicism and arbitraryity of all of this. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is part of the Parliament of the Supreme Council that has usurped the powers of the entire Supreme Council. And in this case, we are witnessing with you that the President of the Supreme Council, Litwin, is not the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, but is the leader of the so-called Bolshevik Council. That's the first one. Second. Yesterday, the Supreme Council finally stated that it was a pocket tool in the hands of the President's Administration and personally of the President. I have the right to declare from this rostrum that, for the second time in such a short period of Ukrainian history, Parliament is committing a crime, both in 2000-2001 and in 2002. We Communists, and the last time a coup took place, claimed that the people's deputies had no right to criminal acts, in violation of the law. As was the vote yesterday in the Supreme Council. In the evening, we were forced to seek out the Supreme Council of the President of the so-called Accountant Commission, which was formed with a violation of the Rules and only for the purpose of concealing the criminal vote. They closed themselves in the office of the representative of the President of the Supreme Council, at the Roadside, without opening the door, without even being allowed to learn about the outcome of the vote. I'll inform you, distinguished voters, there are no ballots in the morning, and they're not registered anywhere where the vote was supposed to take place. Conclusions. Today we are witnessing, once again, the crimes committed in the Supreme Council, we, the Communist faction, consider it necessary to require the President of the majority of our comrades or Mr. Lithuania not to sign the decision referred to yesterday. Second. We must turn to the world European community at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that in the Parliament of Ukraine a coup d'état and the criminal and oligarchic clans have seized power in Ukraine, using their ability to approach the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is unlawfully approved or elected President of the National Bank of Tigipco, has no right to be held accountable for State obligations under international European and other international financial structures. Next. Today, everything needs to be done to return to the 10th hour status quo. And this morning, we proposed to Litvina Vladimir Mihajlovich that he formally address Parliament and remove this opposition, thus protecting the Ukrainian Parliament from the abuse of and the environment of President Kuchma of Ukraine. We, the Communists, declare that we will not allow these illegal actions to continue in this composition of the Supreme Council, when the People's Chamber for its commercial activities today by the most Gestapo methods, making fun of them, forcing them to go into large numbers, closing their accounts, shutting down businesses, making fun of the leaders of certain structures today, because the leader and dependant on this clan of politicians, called, and returning, oligarchs and criminals, in fact, today, in the political leadership of the country. Today, we call for everything to be done to ensure that the Supreme Council returns to normal work. And we state that we will no longer allow it. That's for the Supreme Council to work with these methods. Moreover, the Supreme Council, which was chosen to defend the interests of most of our people and our constituents, should protect and defend only the interests of the clan of his family and the Kuchma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u7	Dear National Deputies! Peter Mikolaiovich was still acting as Nastesiyev’s fourth national deputy. I mean, he had two hours. I only have two little lines. First of all, don't go down to humiliation! And secondly, there are no businesses in the nation's deputies! They are national deputies. They don't do business! Right? Ha-ha. National MP Ivancho, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u9	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u10	Dear Head, I ask you to pass the word to Mr. Alexander Alexandrovich, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-18-m0.u11	Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich. No, no, three minutes. You don't have to. Seven, eight. Three minutes, and then it'll be on the Rules. Everything according to the Rules will be gone. I say again, seventh, do the turn, then it'll be seventh. Maybe they'll block the job. Then you'll do it again. I'm telling you again, you're gonna break the session, I'm gonna close it. And stop blackmailing me. In view of the impossibility of continuing the session, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council closed. At 2.30 p.m., a meeting will take place with the Prime Minister.
