ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There are 394 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Boris Illich Oliynik. Let us welcome, wish health, and creative success. [[Applause]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, on October 21, 2001, the Central Election Commission recognized the elected and registered Pesotic Mikola Fedorovich as Ukraine's national deputy in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Pesocki MP, Mikola Fedorovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u2	I pledge allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to uphold all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of Ukraine’s homeland and welfare, to uphold Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, and to carry out my duties in the interests of all its fellow countrymen. National deputy of Ukraine, Pesocki.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let's welcome our plenipotentiary, we wish you every success in your work. [[Applause]] I, my dear colleagues, ask you to listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Rybikin Pavel Borisovich from the National Authority. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the origin of the Ukrainian National Deputies of Pesotic Mikolia Fedorovic as part of the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and Pravdenska Sergija Makarović as part of the People's Rule of Law. [[united]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I inform you that the faction "Agrarians of Ukraine" has been renamed "Agrarian Party of Ukraine". Honorable Colleagues, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups to make proposals, to announce requests and messages, to ask for representatives of factions and groups to apply. In the meantime, I'm going to announce the questions that have come and put them to the vote. People’s deputies of Ukraine, Vasil Bartkov, asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the granting of the status of the mountains to separate villages in the region of Dolin, in the region of IvanoFrankow. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. "To" - 140. Decision taken. Group of deputies Sobolev, Pavlovsky, Seminouk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the illegal transfer to the administration of the state share of individual enterprises. I'll bet you a vote on that request. "For" - 177. Decision taken. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the critical situation that has arisen since the start of the heating season in the Hersonian region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. For "-180. Decision taken. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a copy of the October 7 contract signed in Chisinau for the creation of a consortium for the administration and development of Ukraine’s gas transport system. I'll bet you a vote on that request. "For" - 142. Decision taken. Leonidas Cherniewsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of budget spending by the management of the Kyiv City Council. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "To" - 85 The decision is not taken. Deputies' groups Omelchenko, Sizonenko, Moroz, Timoshenko, Matvienko, Yushchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the Ministry of Industrial Policy to execute the decision and the separate approval of the Staroki District Court of Kiev regarding your contracting with the Director - General of the State Metallurgical Plant Volodymyr Slednev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "To" - 180 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on speeding up the objective review of the Internet issue case. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "For" - 128 Decision taken. Leonidas Cherniewsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of a major violation of the antimonopoly bill. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "To" - 92 Decision taken. Valery Assadchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the illegal cessation of a criminal case involving fraud. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "For" - 111 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the falsification of documents, the violation of current legislation, the discrediting of law enforcement authorities and the humiliation of the honour and dignity of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the officers of the Shevchenkov Police Department in Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "For" - 170 Decision taken. John Bastriga to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the lack of response to the parliamentary appeal regarding the competence and professionalism of the Court of Commerce. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. "To" - 134 Decision taken. Valery Assadchev to the head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in connection with the violation of the pension rights of a participant in the Great Homeland War, a former United Nations official. I'll bet you a vote on the request. "For" - 132 Decision taken. Let's move on to the factions. A word from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is by Alexander Alexander Moroz. I'm asking you to follow all the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u4	Dear MPs, distinguished radio listeners. During the days of the government, a very interesting meeting took place with the representatives of the districts. The issue of the actual budget sequester, that is, the reduction of expenditure in the budget, was discussed, and this was shown at least in that virtually everywhere in the cities of Ukraine today there is no pay for heating up, preparing for the winter season. Today, 50 percent of the subsidies are not paid, and the year is running out. Most of the medical programs are not funded, and it's become a common place, and people are talking about it hundreds of times. Educators strike because the guarantees given at the same time by the government and the presidential structures are not being enforced by local administrations. So there's a crisis in every direction. And we, the opposition of the Socialist Party faction, stress once again what will happen until the power system in Ukraine changes until the authorities are under control of the people until there is mutual balance and accountability in the performance of their functions between the Cabinet of Ministers, first and foremost, the Ukrainian Parliament. These changes will be assured. And that is why the executive authorities today are trying to split up the opposition and the politicians who are properly set up. They're using fakes. We see three times the fake "All-Ukrainian News" issue being published by the Attorney General's Office, analyzing the events that disinformation is happening on TV channels, including the Warsaw Conference, which allegedly started, say, the agreement between the opposition parties in Ukraine, the vote in the Supreme Council last Thursday and the dialogue and impeachment, these are yesterday's comments. Once again, I would like to make a few brief comments on this subject. We believe that our faction and I believe that the entire opposition believes that the impeachment procedure is the only condition to protect the honour of the state and protect the President if he is convinced that he is completely pure in his actions and thoughts. And as a result of this, we have proposed in the draft Political Situation Regulation, that decision that will be analyzed tomorrow at our meeting, one of the points of the impeachment procedure. And speaking to the majority, I'd like to suggest that you support this proposal. You'll be able to make it clear in society, and then you'll be able to further develop what's in the Constitution Amendments Act, the Elections Act, which actually opens the way to democracy in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u6	I finish, two words literally. Because without democracy, there's nothing to talk about the socio-economic situation, the protection of human rights and freedoms and the guarantees of Ukraine's sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u7	From the European Choice Parliamentary Group, the People's Deputy of Vernidubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the fact that all of our work is essentially based on the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 12th. Accordingly, on September 30, a plan for drafting and accompanying draft laws was agreed upon. Of course, they are. The organization of our work. However, I have to draw your attention to the following. There is a logic to be recognized in this list, but unfortunately this logic has a purely formal, even official character. One part, one, is the question prepared for consideration in plenary sessions. The other one. Questions that need to be prepared and processed. Thus, the work of the Supreme Council depends on the state of law drafting on committees. At a time when the Committee’s efforts should depend on the priorities set by the Supreme Council for the development of legislation. And if you count the fact that the committees are the fastest to work on non-conflict bills, you might say, secondary ones, we have to admit that in our legislative process at this time, the logic of quantity is clearly predominant in the logic of quality, the system of lawmaking. We need to change that logic. I think we really need to make concrete decisions to support the Head of the Supreme Council, who has consistently and persistently stressed the need to organise the very systematic legislative work of Parliament. And the first step in this direction is to develop and adopt the principles of internal and external politics. This constitutional document must certainly be of a strategic nature. But with one, I think, a principled warning. When we talk about strategy, we often refer to time measurements. If this is about three or five years, about the next year, it's a tactic. And if it's 2030, it's already a strategy. The approach is simple to excellence. To my conviction about the principles of public policy, such an approach is at least a mistake. The strategy in its national, national dimensions has been determined, not by years, but by interests. The national interests of Ukraine. These are the interests that need to be fixed. I think it's a matter of national interest that we can find a common language in this room. The next step is the government's action programme, the main criterion of which the Supreme Council should adopt is its compliance with the internal and external policies. On this basis, the Supreme Council can adopt its own legislative work plan. First of all, for her appointment. And secondly, to determine the order of the day for each session. That's exactly what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u10	on the basis of which the Supreme Council will properly exercise its constitutional powers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u11	From the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexiyovich Lechchenko has the word. To prepare for the people’s representative of Pavlovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! A warm summer quickly passed, and as always, the power of action cooled. The thermometers in the open air have gone down to negative signs, and in the room up to 6-10 degrees Fahrenheit [6-10 ° C] of heat. Someplace special in the capital has started to include heat grids, but in most of the locations and even in some parts of Kiev, repairs have not yet been completed. Many suppliers do not even have the imagination to start a job. Until now, they have not yet made contracts for the supply of energy. They were led by the anti-national authorities through the privatization of pricing policies, and so forth. Thus, at the beginning of the heating season in Ukraine, an extremely tense environment, especially in housing, education, culture, even health care, and other social infrastructures, was created. And especially where they burn from centralized heating networks. It has been a week since the traditional start of the heating season, but by this time the city’s entire microregions of reycenters, other populated sites with tens of thousands of residents with sociocultural sites there, have not yet received heat. This is particularly true of the area of activity of a branched network of thermal utility companies. The cold in apartments, schools, kindergartens, medical facilities, dormitories, and other social facilities is affecting babies, schoolchildren, and students, the sick, the disabled, the elderly. Cold diseases are spreading, and mortality is increasing. Today, for example, most of the city of Chernigova is not provided with heat. Because of the cold, several kindergartens were shut down. In turn, a number of schools have cut short the duration of the lessons because of the lack of endurance of either students or teachers. The school number 29 was finally warmed up at last yesterday, only after about 400 high school students were booked on Friday. They came to school with posters saying, "We're cold!".. In their apartments, tens of thousands of nuns are teething from the cold. They are already used to the fact that hot water is supplied to residential areas only when the day of independence, before September 1st, and when the President comes to visit. A similar picture of the abuse of people throughout Ukraine: in Kirovograd. Santa, Uzhgorod, Hersoni, Dnipropetrovsk, and other cities Government authorities, local governments, and heat - power manufacturers refer to the lack of funds. But what do their arguments look like in the light of the elaborate Eurorenovation of administrations, the central microregions of cities and renegotiations, the considerable cost of office arrangements and the debt to wage workers? It would be more convincing if, in time for the completion of the work, the heat supply of all housing and social facilities would stop the heat supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u13	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u14	in the administrative premises of all executive authorities. I believe that the Supreme Council should respond to this situation. So I propose that we urgently include in the agenda of today’s session the issue of measures to ensure the warmth of housing, education, health care, culture, and other social facilities. Project number 2321 has been submitted to me, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u15	Where is this project? You give it to me. I'm asking the Secretariat to multiply this project, and then we'll figure it out. The question is urgent. 2121. From the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko is the national deputy of Pavlovsky. Please. Get ready, Kirilenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u16	Thank you. Pavlovski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear colleagues! Journalists! I want to draw attention to three questions. First. Today, more than a thousand Chinese have gathered before the Supreme Court of Ukraine to demand that justice be done in Ukraine, because today it has been revealed in Ukraine that prominent legalists who serve power allow themselves to interpret without the Constitutional Court and the word "infringement" are replaced by the word "responsibility." The point is that you can break a case against any person -- the National MP, the President and others -- and attracting the President is already a special procedure -- an impeachment that the Supreme Council will support in the near future. But what came out today was that the Attorney-General, as a representative of the State Authority, instead of supporting the people in violation of article 3 of the Constitution, began to support the highest authority, President of Ukraine, by filing a complaint directly with the Supreme Court instead of filing an appeal with the Supreme Court. The Court of Appeal has also violated the relevant rules of the Criminal Procedure Code without even informing the applicants, the national MPs, to date has scheduled urgent consideration of violations of all the norms that exist. That is why we demand the support of those who stand before the Supreme Court in order to return to the case and consider it properly. And to remind the Attorney General's Office that the Constitution requires her to defend the interests of the people, not the President himself. Moreover, I would like to pay attention to the double morals of the Attorney General's Office. Here, when there was an application to Julius Tymoshenko, the Supreme Council all acknowledged that the application was neither justified nor lawful. And those accusations about VAT are groundless. Now the same charges are being brought to the pensioners who once worked in the EU from Turkey brought them here and that we have admitted that they are being illegally accused of pressing against the opposition and especially against Timoshenko Yulia. But what I'm trying to say is that people are standing there, and it's a manifestation of what's going on here: "Get up, Ukraine!" It's going to work, and if people everywhere on the ground are going to seek legal action in the interests of the law, justice is going to win, and I think it's going to be the action "Currency, Ukraine!" Like an action that saved Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u17	John Grigorovich Kirilenko from the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party is invited to prepare Kuzmuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! John Kirilenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Last Thursday in this room, we voted on the budget in the first reading. The decision was made faithfully and politically. Because blocking the budget process is taking on too much responsibility. But it is too early to be happy with illusions, for there is great work to be done in preparation for his second and third readings. The main thing is to find plus the six billion dollars we took in the first reading. Today, there are already a number of draft laws in the Supreme Council that will allow this deficit to be eliminated. The faction of Ukraine’s Agrarian Party appeals to the deputies of all factions to prevent the noise of a significant deterioration in agricultural affairs. Because some hotheads propose to cancel the only fixed agricultural tax and special tax treatment at added cost. Let me remind you. In the mid - '90s, tribal carnage was cut out to pay taxes, seeds sold for free, barter flourished, processed, and more than half of the goods were of foreign origin on domestic cars. And the tax rate was not more than 41-47 percent. We lived to see that the decision to import food grain into Ukraine was made in 1999. It was then that the only right decision was to introduce a single fixed agricultural tax and a special tax regime for the added value. Three years have passed, no matter what you say, and there are results. Let me just say that the agri-industrial complex pays off to the budget every year plus 1 billion dollars three years in a row to the base of the previous year. So what do we want? Destroying the embryo that had just begun to be born? Dear colleagues, there are few voices today in connection with the fact that private property has been introduced in the village, taxes on citizens’ farming, namely fruit tree, livestock, birds, and so on. Dear friends, let's stop these poor politicians, let them go to the village and ask their parents, and they'll tell them that this story in the '50s has already been there, and Ukrainian gardens have been destroyed, and the head has been cut off, and the trailers have been abandoned, and the country has stopped at the brink of famine. Dear friends, the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine strongly opposes such frivolous and adventurous proposals and decisions. And we're asking us to support the hall in this respect, because we've all been in elections, in agriculture, we've seen the situation and we've promised the villagers all kinds of support. So let's keep our word and not make matters worse in agriculture more vulnerable to tax policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u19	Thank you. The faction of the political party of industrialists and entrepreneurs of "Trudova Ukraine" is by Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Before the start of the budgetary process in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the factions of the political party of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine held their exit meeting with the special composition of the First Individual Tank Brigade and members of the families of military personnel living in the village of Hončarovsk in Montenegro. Our deputies visited all the social facilities of the military town, listened to officers, soldiers, wives, and children of the military. The state of affairs in the social sphere of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is extremely dramatic. Neither the moral nor the physical efforts involved in military service meet even the minimum needs. In fact, nearly 30,000 contract personnel and 80,000 military personnel were outside the poverty line because their salaries were lower than that of the state’s subsistence minimum. The situation in remote garrisons is acute, where there is no employment for women. They have real revenue per term of 2-3 times the cost of living. Military officials are looking forward to the introduction of Presidential Decree 173 of February 23, 2003, which regulates the establishment of a monthly allowance of 100 percent of the financial security. Pensioners also have high expectations for this document, as the decree required the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prepare a 2003 draft of the State Budget for Ukraine and to anticipate not only expenses for maintaining military formations, taking into account the rules of article 1 of this decree, but also to develop and make proposals in order to increase the level of pensions. However, the government has not prepared such proposals at the proper time, and the drafts of the relevant documents initiated by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine have been rejected by the Cabinet of Ministers, referring to the lack of necessary funds. At the same time, these allowances are already taken into account in the calculation of pensions for the military personnel of the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Department for the Enforcement of Punishment and the Administration of Public Protection. This is not the case with regard to many thousands of retired members of the military. The faction of the political parties of the Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine also disagrees with the proposals for the removal of the benefits of military personnel on professional grounds. It's about article 53 of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2003. In the event of the adoption of the mentioned article as part of the military force, there will be no guarantee of aid that will put them under conditions of total social insecurity. With a view to raising the standard of living of military personnel, workers, the faction considers it necessary: legislative improvement of the financial support structure through a step-by-step increase, annual increase in the financial security of military personnel by 20-25 per cent, as provided by the State programme, the normative definition of the concept and the content of the benefits, compensations, security standards; and the inclusion of a percentage in the pensioner's allowance. The faction expects your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u21	From the faction of "Our Ukraine" the word has been given to the national deputy Stojko, to prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u22	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues. Last week in Ternopolska, there were two events that merit our attention. First, it's proven once again that there really is a censorship of the media in our country. And the second event is that we have one person in the area who has usurped all power. In front of me, I'm going to show you two newspapers -- this is the Freedom newspaper, which was supposed to come out Thursday at 60,000. But it didn’t come out because there are articles on forest abuse in our area. And this newspaper came out without these articles. Why did this happen? Because the calls came from Kiev, there were calls from the White House of Ternopol, and unfortunately the newspaper had to put $60,000 under the knife. This happened from Wednesday to Thursday at night. I think this is where the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the State-Form. The second event that struck our area was that on Friday, the 18th number was scheduled for the district council session. Unfortunately, though, this session did not take place because the heads of district government administrations, heads of institutions, educational institutions, and medical institutions were intimidated, and they did not come to the district council. On that day, they were all sick or away. I think this disgraceful event should serve to make the whole of Ukraine aware of what's happening in Ternopolska. And on that note, I'd like to propose to you a statement from the faction of "Our Ukraine" in the Ternopil region, which tells us that we're not doing so well. "The Ternopil Regional Coordination Board of the Victor Yushchenka political party bloc "Our Ukraine is concerned about the exacerbation of the political crisis in the area. On October 18, 2002, the Ukrainian faction initiated a session of the District Council to consider the political situation in the area and in Ukraine. However, due to the intervention of the head of the Ternopil district government administration of Kurnicki John Ivanovich, there was no session of the district council. The district council did not meet with deputies who are the heads of the Reich administrations, government officials, and managers of enterprises, institutions, and organizations. The members of the district council have been pressured by the head of the Ternopil government. Only 44 deputies in 105 found the opportunity to fulfill their duties as deputies. The breakup of the session showed that the district vertical of executive power is not capable of dialogue and acts in totalitarian ways. We are members of the faction "Our Ukraine" and the coordinating board of the Victor Yushchenk Block in a situation that we consider necessary to remind Kurnick that the head of the district administration is a representative of the executive structure that is accountable to the district council. We demand that executive powers continue to be clear about the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws on local self-government and the status of members of local councils. We hope that the members of the district council will still have the courage and strength to express their position on the political situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u24	At its session, the deputies of a number of district and city councils in the area. Last sentence. It will be time and time again, and the people will remember the position of the electorate — whether it was a rightful democratic society or a totalitarian regime. Dear National Deputies! This is the kind of democracy in Ukraine. And it's called "Quick democracy." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u25	The word is given by the Gurov People's Deputy from the Parliamentary Group of the People's Authority. Get ready for Bandurca.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! Vadim Gurov, Krivbas, People's Rule Group. A statement by the People's Government MP on a situation involving the provision of domestic metallurgical enterprises with metal scrap metal. Dear colleagues! The People's People's Group expresses its deep concern about the situation that has arisen with the provision of domestic metallurgical enterprises with metallurgy. The metallurgical sector remains one of the main sources of currency for the state. The branch provides hundreds of thousands of jobs, a large proportion of the budget income. But the state cannot or does not want to play the role of a good host without providing the domestic industry with no conditions for dynamic development, without helping to compete with foreign businesses. An example is the State’s attitude toward the problem of metal scraps. Because in recent times, Ukrainian metallurgy has been causing enormous losses from undersupply, which has led to the disruption of production cycles, the increase in the cost of production, and eventually the decline and so low competitiveness of Ukrainian metal in the world market. In fact, steel production is ensured today, metal scrap is 84 percent, and this figure has been reduced by 5 percent compared to the previous one. At the same time, there is no stopping the looting of junk abroad. A piece of exports in the structure. It's 41 percent. It is obvious that such a situation needs to be addressed. React quickly and extremely harshly. And in fact, in recent times this issue has been given a lot of attention by both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Parliament, but when it comes to practical implementation of such a condition, there is an impression that the government will be completely removed from the solution of the problem. In fact, the government does not use its authority to suspend the export of junk. That is why several bills have been tabled by the Ukrainian National Deputies on the limitation of the export of junk, the introduction of duties and the cancellation of the zero VAT rate on such exports. Sadly, however, even in the Ukrainian Parliament, there are intense attempts to postpone consideration of these issues. And only 228 deputies voted in favour of the day-to-day draft law on import export duties. In view of the above-mentioned MPs, the People's Authority calls on all national MPs to support a domestic producer, to help halt the systemic crisis that has resulted in the domestic industry and to prevent the final destruction of Ukraine's metallurgical potential. We urge developed countries to stop exporting raw materials and to support legislative measures to limit the export of scrap metal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u27	From the faction of the People's Democratic Party is Alexander Markovich Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u28	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Yesterday, today and tomorrow, an international conference on countering trafficking is being held in Kiev. According to research and data from the International Organization for Migration in the past three years, almost 400,000 Ukrainian citizens have gone abroad for employment, of which more than 100,000 are women between 17 and 25 years of age. I don't think these numbers need comments. The major consumers of mercury are the countries of Western Europe, Turkey, Greece, Israel, the United States, and the United Arab Emirates. And just last year, once again, according to official data, five and a half thousand Ukrainians went to Turkey, to Greece -- three and a half thousand, to Serbia -- 1243, to Italy -- 1200. You could call it a number of other countries. That's enough. 570 firms in Ukraine are working abroad. At the same time, the vast majority of these companies work illegally, since they do not have a license to work abroad for Ukrainian citizens, and Ukraine has entered into employment agreements with only 11 countries, these are European countries - Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, a number of other countries. The main causes of mass exodus are socio-economic causes and conditions, especially unemployment. Again, statistics show that in areas where the employment rate is higher than the average or sufficiently high, such as Dnipropetrovska, Kharkivska, Zaporizka, some other areas, there is a drinking weight of those who want to go to employment much lower than 10,000 people, in areas such as Zakarpatska, Lvivska, Ivano-Frankivska, Chernivecka, where the drinking weight is twice as high as the average level of employment in Ukraine or in some of our developed areas. What problems do we face today? We would like to consider the issue in parliamentary hearings -- a comprehensive counter-trafficking programme approved by the Government. Poverty eradication program and the Employment Program. The very execution of these programs, which many carry in formality in their signs, because there is insufficient government and parliamentary control, are the moments that could contribute to increasing resistance to trafficking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues. All those who applied for the factions came forward. That's all there is to it. I'd like to inform you of this, dear colleagues. I was approached by a national MP, our colleague Musiak, with such a letter. "Without having the opportunity to personally express some views on the internal parliamentary processes, I ask you to announce my appeal to my fellow national deputies in the Supreme Council." Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, I'll ask the Secretariat to reproduce and distribute to you and you'll get to know him. Is there no objection? Thank you. Let us take a look at the issues provided for in the schedule of meetings. You are considering a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the resolution of disputes over the claims of individuals on matters of privatization. The reporter is the Head of the State Property Fund, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar. The profile committee suggests that we take 20 minutes, that is, five minutes, five minutes, five minutes, five minutes, and five minutes, respectively. It is suggested that we do not have a discussion. Let's see how in the process of dealing with the issue we'll continue to define. Is there no objection? Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u30	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed, two legislative acts related to the privatization process are the Law on Privatisation of State Property and the Law on the Master Procedures Code of Ukraine. They relate to the fact that, in practice, the State Privatization Program, the Fund faced such a problem that there were complaints about the terms of the contests, the results of them, the terms of the auctions in different courts. It is meant that legal persons are suing the Fund for the actions of the household courts, and natural persons are suing the national courts. After that, these courts make mutually exclusive decisions, i.e. the opposite content, and as a result, they block the whole process and the costs that should be budgeted for the implementation of the state privatization programme are virtually not coming because all the decisions on these competitions are blocked. I can give a lot of examples when this happened. This has been the case for the past two years, and the State Property Fund has taken the initiative to resolve this issue, and this is as follows: there are changes in legislation that relate to all disputes arising in the process of selling privatisation objects at auctions at open-trade and stock markets will be decided by the appropriate commercial court. This indicates that both natural and legal persons have the right to appeal to the Master’s Court, and appropriate decisions should be made there. All other disputes arising in the legal relationship with the privatization process are settled, both by national courts and by commercial courts. In order to ensure that a natural person can be sued before a household court, a small amendment is made to the The master’s procedural code, which is that the jurisdiction of the courts is also subject to disputes arising from the privatisation process. I'm asking you to support these changes, they're really challenged by the practical application of privatization procedures, and they're not denying any natural or legal persons the right to go to court, but they're going to decide in a single court of jurisdiction that makes it impossible to make the opposite decisions. I'm short.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? If there is, please sign in, please. On the board, please. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, POW faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u32	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have considered this bill in detail at a committee meeting. I just want to make my suggestions in order to support this in and not delay the time. This is a normal procedure, especially since this issue already needs to be resolved as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u33	Thank you. Mikola Onischuk, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u34	Dear reporter, indeed, the problem you're talking about exists. It exists both legally and socially, let's say. However, this issue was discussed by the Legal Policy Committee, and one very important detail was noted: If individuals are to turn to the Master’s Court for protection of their violated rights, we are to some extent narrowing the scope of their protection by law. Why, because the trial in the Master's Court is somewhat different. There, for example, is no evidence of physical witnessing and so forth. So, do you consider it possible to, if you allow all cases to be dealt with in the household courts that. [[I'm formulating a question in that sense.]] Privatization, so that when a natural person enters this process, he follows the rules of the Civil Procedure Code, the process, not the Master Procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. We've been preparing these changes with Minist, he's agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers, and including the Supreme Council has been analyzed. What you're proposing needs more changes in legislation. And maybe that's what we have to do later, but in order to solve the real issue that exists today, blocking full trials, because physical persons who directly participate in the process, competitions and generally the attitude to the privatization process did not have to take the first step, and then these changes in legislation were more carefully prepared. Your committee and I will be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u36	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Please tell me, Reverend Alexander Mikolaiovich, do you not think it would be better to make the contest transparent and all that is behind it than to drive our citizens into a single farm court, where they have been found, of course, the road and all the legal dynasties and entire firms? Some of the family members of the Arbitral Court are now in line to deal with matters in one way or another. If you don't know that, I will lead all the members of the Supreme Council to all the national MPs, as it happens. Is there any other way to find out: to make the procedure transparent and not to make changes that clearly violate citizens' rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u38	I want to say that I'm not going to look at what courts, whose jurisdiction is larger, which decisions are taken by the people's courts. It's not my jurisdiction. But what I'm saying is that the lawsuits of the individuals concerned are totally out of question with the terms of the contests and their procedures. The general application of the individual is as follows: his rights as a shareholder for the sale of such a package are violated. This is no reason to stop the sale and not have the money in the budget. And there has never been any appeal from any of the individuals who do not have the terms of the competition. So in order to do so in the same court, and all the lawsuits that are made on specific subjects, were considered in the same court and there were no opposite decisions, we proposed such actions. And to examine the courts more objectively, it is no longer our jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u39	Please, National Deputy Sinchenko, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u40	Alexander Mikolaiovich, please tell me, like the judge of the county court, that the judge of a district district court is governed by law in any case. You think something's going to go wrong, that is, if there's one jurisdiction, it's going to guarantee that the courts are going to deal with the issue in some other way. And consider the comments of my colleagues. The procedure for dealing with the issue in domestic courts is completely different from that in local courts. And so the question is, "What guarantee is there that the question of upholding the rule of law on all these issues will improve, for example, the question that is the cause of your submission to the Supreme Council?"
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. I want to say it again. We have not put the problem or solved the problem that the issue in one court will be resolved more objectively than in another. That's not the problem. The problem is that there are different courts in different jurisdictions that deal with the opposite content. The result is the opposite. That's the problem. In order for this to not happen, we suggest that in a court of law, we deal with issues related to the conduct of competitions and auctions. To transfer these questions from the farm only to the nationals. Because legal persons do not have the right to appear before national courts. The second question. We sell objects for hundreds of millions of dollars. And no time does a natural person who should make a declaration of income apply to such objects. It can't just take part in these competitions, because there's an industrial investor to be. But a natural person, with several actions of a privatized enterprise, has the right to present a national court and to block the sale of a strategic object for Ukraine. I think it's insane. This should be considered by an economic court that is expert in these problems and should consider all these lawsuits.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u42	Thank you. Time's up, Alexander Mikolayovich. Correspondent from the Jury Carmazin Committee. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the secretariat to announce that all members of the national parliament will enter the session room. After consideration of this issue, we will have to vote on the draft decree on thermal measures. A decision will have to be made. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u43	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders. I think I will save time, and I will tell you, honourable national MPs, that the Committee on Legal Policy has discussed at its meeting, discussed a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the organization of dispute resolution on matters of privatization brought before the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The majority of the members of the committee find it inappropriate to adopt a draft Ukrainian law amending certain legislative acts in the proposed wording as not meeting the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation. In this regard, the committee decided to recommend to you, honourable members of the national parliament, that a bill be sent for further work by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Moreover, during our discussion, we expressed our specific suggestions, thoughts, and thoughts. the reasons for this. For example, we consider the addition to article 12 of the Code of Master Procedure to be of no use because it contradicts the article’s current wording and the proposed edition of article 30 of the Law on Privatization. In addition, it is generally problematic to consider any privatisation dispute before the Court of Justice, because all of these disputes are, in any case, disputes arising out of privatisation-related relations. Moreover, we believe that, in some cases, the existing human rights and freedoms will be narrowed down by the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular by article 22 of the Constitution of Part 3, which provides that when new laws are adopted or changes are made to existing ones, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed. It's so that we don't do that and propose to reject this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Is there a question? Please sign in. Five minutes. On the board, please. National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u45	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Yuri Anatolyevich, unlike you, I believe that there is no doubt about the need to make such changes today. As Ukraine's national deputy, remember that negative practice when a firm that didn't take part in a competition for some sort of package of shares was declared a winner by the court to be a winner of the competition. And you helped us to put order in place when 20 percent of the shares of the Sici Motor tried to get court-martialed, not alienated, but really denounced, "Turboatoma," "Rade." And so on. Tell me, please, maybe this bill will make it impossible to do this kind of negative practice when, for the benefit of a particular individual, the court, of course, made a decision in the interests of a firm that had nothing to do with the competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. But they're in state absolutely right. From a legal point of view, they're a little bit at odds with themselves, internally they have contradictions. Because you're talking about the lawsuits of companies and legal persons, and I'm talking about the changes that apply to citizens' lawsuits, any of us with you, and they want to be prosecuted. Do you understand what this is about? And by motivating it, it's supposed to be so that there's no opposite. But for that reason, there is a system of courts built up above, led by the Supreme Court of Justice, to determine whether or not there are conflicting decisions. And what's important is that we build a system that works both for human beings and protects the interests of the state through transparency, because of the non-admissibility of the processes that are going on, which you've been talking about absolutely correctly both on the Sichi Motor and on the Turboatoma, and so many more. But so far, this practice has taken place, especially in the Supreme Court of Agriculture, so that you know when a trinity comes in this morning to look at judges, and they are told: “You know, you’ve already been switched. They say how? And so the other three are going to look at it. And we're looking at another three. Do you understand? In principle, it is not even possible to think about it in a normal country. And we had no idea before, but when I saw things like this coming, well, of course, I can't say it's something to be encouraged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u47	Marcus, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u48	My fellow Members, I do not believe that this bill meets the applicable requirements of legislation, because it severely restricts the rights of natural persons to appeal to a court. I believe that in this way the courts of general jurisdiction are practically allowing a natural person to exercise more of his or her rights in that regard. I believe that this bill should be returned to work and I support the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u49	Thank you, Comrade Marcus. We also absolutely believe that it is severely restricting the rights of our citizens who have chosen us here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u50	The miner, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u51	Please give the floor to the deputy of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u52	Please, Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u53	Thank you, Mr. Eugene. Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Jury Anatolyovich, do you find it paradoxical that in today's introduction of this bill we will also consider other drafts relating to reprivatisation, that is, the return of privatized property to state property? Of course, the acknowledgment of all these problems only in the jurisdiction of the court of one institution cannot solve the issue. But do you not feel that there are many unresolved issues in the relationship between judicial institutions, the State Property Fund, and privatization? And these are the issues that are not solved, and that is what these needs are. Could your committee at least offer the idea of getting out of such legislative acts that could solve the underlying issue that we are currently considering? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u54	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, thank you very much for your question. What I'm saying is that the draft reprivatization bill was normal, and it had to be implemented for a long time. Because it's supposed to be not just a sales agency, it's also a government property management agency, but it's still important in the state, it's been difficult all these years. Everyone thought, for some reason, it was a task to sell and not control anything else. It's been a long time since we've dealt with the question of reprivatization. But the question that you're asking, it's a little bit broader, it's about the question of implementation in the state of administrative reform. And when our committee has proposed and will propose and if the issue of the political situation in the state is initiated, we will ask the President of the State to sit here, necessarily. I'm already talking to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin because there's a question like the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is blocked. If it were accepted, many questions would be considered differently. Today, we patch up the legislative field without seeing how it should be decided, and with your elbows you will not go away. These are the issues that need to be addressed in the complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u55	Thank you. Time's up, Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. Dear colleagues! Do we need to discuss this? None. Then let's do it this way. Please, Replica, the people's representative of Matvienkov from the place, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u56	Matvienkov 55 district, the city of Mariupol.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u57	I'm asking all the MPs to come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u58	I did not sign up for the question, unfortunately, but I would like to draw attention to this issue and support the few funds that come out with this bill. Until we approach privatization and take two things into account: first, privatization is a mechanism for finding an effective owner, not a means of getting money to spend it safely in that budget, it is the most important, integral part that is being presented today in the privatization process. When the hammer strikes, we believe that the more money we receive from the company's budget, and thus solve all problems, it is the wrong way. The fact that today, and the search for natural persons, I can give dozens of examples where, in fact, the physical person, neither sleep nor spirit knows about those processes. which happens, receives some incentive, and with this incentive they prepare papers for him, and he signs those papers, he can't say words to the judge, and he's taught what to say, and thus he's in the process of privatization, it's probably necessary to stop this process, put a stop to it and put an end to it. Therefore, there are, of course, questions on the courts, I do not dispute, what we have said today in business courts, and we ourselves have prepared to submit to the same Bondarenko Donetsk Economic Court, but nevertheless, this bill would have to be adopted on first reading to refine and close this niche, this door that exists today, how to enter the privatization process on the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed and the decision will be decided on Thursday. I would like to return to the proposal of the People's Deputies of Lechchenka. May I have your attention, Your Honor? The National MP Lechchenko has proposed and urges today to include in the agenda a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on measures to ensure the warmth of housing, education, health, culture, and other social facilities that are burned by centralized heating networks. To include in the meeting schedule and to vote on the matter, i.e. to accept this decision. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, I beg your attention, please take your seats. I am voting on the inclusion of draft regulation 2321 in the agenda and on the decision-making process today. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. For, uh, 350. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to accept this project. The factions, please. Let's take it as a base if there's a denial. Who's in favour of taking this project as a basis, please vote. On the basis of the foundation and then the addition. Please vote. For-- Such unity always does. What are the additions, observations? Please, People's Deputy Movchan. Turn on the microphone of the national MP, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I have the impression that the Supreme Council is the owner of the rublers. And from what she's voting on, she's going to add heat right now. I don't mind having these issues resolved. But it's the sole prerogative of executive power. And let's stop saving the crops, and let's not save the executive powers. I voted in both cases. But let us stop this practice. These are their direct functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u61	Thank you. National MP Nikolaynko. Then Assadchev. Dear fellows, let's not delay for a while. Now let's define by vote and.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u62	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We have with the People's Deputy of the faction, with the People's Deputy Rudzkovsky's proposal to do so, right, the bill. First. To propose to the government during November and October that subsidies be reimbursed to citizens who need to be paid this year. The fact is that subsidies, as Frost said today, have been paid 55 - 60 percent. And the second. To empower the government to consider eliminating debt for municipal services to educational institutions, especially vocational schools, which are now open in Ukraine to nearly 122 heat-communeers, because they have debts in 1999, 2000, 2001 — subsidies and debts in the past years.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u63	With respect to debt, it is: to take additional measures to ensure payment of debts to budgetary institutions. Please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear friends, let's make the Supreme Council work professionally. Well, first of all, we have no right to propose to the Cabinet of Ministers to spend the local budgets. Well, there is a Constitution and there are guarantees. That's the first one. Second, take out bank loans. What are these bank loans? It's us that's going to increase our debt or something. In principle, the problem is that today, as a result of what is happening in the real budget, the government does not actually finance the funds needed to finance utilities. Here, indeed, it would have to be written that it is forbidden to pay the cost of pay and utilities when segregated. So I would suggest, let's at least work out this decision now before lunch and vote after lunch or tomorrow morning. But it must be professionally done and not violate the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, please Stanislaw Ivanovich, then Hinzburg. Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u66	Thank you. The Communist faction, Gurenko. Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a proposal to give a mandate today to the Cabinet of Ministers at the next meeting to inform the Supreme Council of the status of implementation of the 2002 budget. The thing is, everywhere, the budget deficit is huge, I don't want to publish this number that everybody knows. And we're back in the sack. This is a determination, indeed, sharp, screaming, to be made. But what are we going to do tomorrow? What are we going to do in November and December with this budget deficit? I would very much like to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Well, please, 30 seconds. Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u68	I'm short. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Hinzburg, Communist faction. I wanted to ask a Communist faction like this. I'd like to complement, if that's a determination, and that's a possibility. When debts are collected, where "payable citizens" are written, it is imperative that the Cabinet of Ministers inform the Supreme Council of how they repay their debts on salary because they give incorrect information. I have public service debts today, and the salary for two or three years around the county is not refunded, including in Six and the City of Konotap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u69	You stay and we'll finish. Stay, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u70	Thank you. I'm afraid that after such a vote, all of our channels will announce tonight that a new majority has emerged. But I want to step out of the voting procedure. As you know, "Our Ukraine" has proposed that every MP in this room vote in person. But the first step we can take is Thursday. This requires that today or tomorrow the Rules Committee make such a decision that all members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after the six - hour meeting, place their cards in the secretariat. The next morning, each MP gets a card only after signing up for the registration card and then he can vote in the session room. In this way, we will prevent those who are not physically present, either abroad or in hospitals, from being able to vote. And then we'll take the next step so that we don't vote in the room with other people's cards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. We're getting into a discussion. Now we're going to take down further questions. Zarubinsky, the national deputy, raised him. Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Zarubinsky, the People's Democratic Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm just the person who's always in the session room, you know that. But I think there's going to be some kind of proposal right now that's not going to be easy, let's say, ignoring the rights of a national MP, but just a national MP like a Ukrainian citizen. Soon we will be required not only to deposit cards at six o’clock but then to sign them. Something else. I'm asking you to stay on a base based on common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u73	Thank you. National MP. One minute, please. Pavlovsky’s national deputy has long been asking for the floor. That's all. Nigga and Karmazin and all. Well, I said Black after Pavlovsky. What are you yelling at?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to make a proposal on the substance of the regulation that touches the tan. I want to continue in that chapter where it says "education" Nikolaynko proposed "professional and technical schools." And I want to add "the higher education institutions of Ukraine that are funded centrally from the budget." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u75	Thank you. Nigger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u76	Dear National Deputies! I voted and will vote in favour. But I would like us to realize that we are making a paper decision. As we have tried many times to replace the government, we have made decisions and are virtually unfulfilled. I have an offer. Invite the First Vice-Prime Minister to the Supreme Council to inform us of the situation that has arisen with this issue, and then, specifically, it will be possible to make concrete proposals in our decision along with the government. Otherwise it'll just be on paper. And the last. I fully agree that this problem is now in the budget segment. If the government executes the budget sequester, the Supreme Council should carry out a government sequester. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u77	Thank you. Carmazine, please. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! To Professor Cherniak's offer. For a long time, the government has no further questions. Valentin Mikhailovich rightly said that they had already cleaned the cabinets. So do not ask them questions. But we have to write down in the decree that the budget institutions, the Department of Defense institutions, the courts, first. Secondly, we have to write that "suggest the Cabinet of Ministers to take measures on energy supply. The entire ministry is, and the measures are not being taken. So this is the addition I'm going to write in the first paragraph. And here's where the government and the Ministry of Defense, the others, write the name and the text of the entire decree. Because they're not guilty of not paying them the budget because someone's going to sequester something. There's a law, and he's got to keep no sequester we didn't vote with you. And what Yusko wants is their problem with Kinakh, they've already played their part.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u79	Please say your last name. Ice cream, Anatoly Frost, I'm sorry. Anatoly, just please, 30 seconds. It's not working? So what are we gonna do? It doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u80	Yes. Yes, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u81	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u82	Frost, 83 constituency, Zaporez. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we are now taking and discussing a very important decision regarding heating and so on. But here's what I'd like to ask us to put forward a daily draft of Law 1292, which was that week we had on utilities subsidies. That's right over here. And we threw him out and we don't have him on the day-to-day line for this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u83	Come on in, we'll consider it then, a proposal. Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. On the basis of those observations, the additions that have been presented to you, I propose that Valery Paulovich Deserter and the author of the bill should be further prepared, properly drafted, and perhaps provided for in the following paragraph: "Listen to the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the progress of the work related to the heating season." Considering that we will work for the next three weeks in a non - sessional mode, we may consider this matter on Friday. At the same time, I would like to ask the Committee on Budget Affairs to make a proposal when we hear a report from the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the budget this year, also taking into account the situation that we will be. We don't have a three-week plenary meeting. Is there no objection? I'm asking you to finalize this document, be everyone in the room, so we can vote at 16 o'clock. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Concept of the Fundamentals of National Security Policy of Ukraine is being submitted to your consideration. [[new editor]] Considering that we have a lot of documents, and today we have to consider in a package draft laws that relate to the basic principles of internal and external politics, I have such an offer that we work at 12 o'clock, we don't take a break. Is there no objection? None. Thank you very much. For consideration, the committee proposes 60 minutes. Well, I think we have a little bit of a lot, because we're not going to be able to look at everyone, so let's be within 45 minutes. Is there no objection? For the report. So the point is that today we're looking at the basics of the complex, we have to vote in 60 minutes. The reporter is the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk. Eugene Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u84	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! The current geopolitical and security situation, its dynamics lead to new dominance in political, economic, social, war, environmental, and other areas. Ukraine's development stability is becoming dependent not only on the activation of internal processes, but also on the phenomena of a global nature, such as global financial crises, economic globalization, international terrorism, information expansion, etc. Ukraine is involved in global turbulence processes, new types of external and internal threats and challenges that need to study, predict consequences, synchronize all components of the national security strategy. The conceptual principles of national security are defined in the concept of the National Security Policy of Ukraine. They were the result of the proclamation of state sovereignty, reflecting understanding of the principles and ways of national security that existed at the beginning of the creation of Ukrainian statehood. The beginning of the 21st century revealed the need for significant changes in the understanding of the nature, orientation, and criteria of national, regional, and global security. The starting point in the coordinate system of any strategic document, especially one such as the National Security Concept, is the definition of the main term. In Ukrainian world science, there is no uniform view of such methodological concepts as national security, national interests, level or measure of security, and so forth. Some scientists and politicians prefer quantifications of national security, characterize it from zero -- lower levels, to one -- higher or even better. Other scientists and actors focus on national values and interests. The concept of national interests is primarily characteristic of the Western European and American political schools. The new edition of the National Security Concept provides a basis for an integrated definition of the main concept that combines quantitative assessments and dynamics, i.e. changes in time, vital interests. National security is a state of protection for a person, a society and a state that provides timely identification, prevention and neutralisation of real and potential internal and external threats to their interests. The experience of our past years has shown that the main complex of threats and challenges to the national interests of the state, the society, was more in the middle of our state. Political, economic, and social spheres have undergone a period of profound transformation. A military sphere is being reformed with a complex of social, material, organizational, and other problems. We felt that this was an information expansion, a purposeful impact from the outside on public opinion. That is why we need to take a fresh look at information policy and information security. A complex set of inherited problems had to be addressed in the environmental sphere of the Chernobyl Complex of Problems, Floods in Zakartat, the effects of coal mine closures, the technological security of physically worn-out core funds and potentially dangerous enterprises, and many other global environmental problems, such as greenhouse effects, posed new challenges to mankind’s danger. The scientific and technological sphere of the state has also been a subject of constant attention. Before the innovative model of economic development, there is a sure way to overcome the perception of the distance of backwardness and harmonious development, it needs priority attention to the problem of science and technology. The external situation has changed dramatically, and globalization has long affected almost every aspect of the internal life of the state, and not always a positive one. International terrorism, illegal migration, drugs, and AIDS are becoming sensitive factors of national security. Ukraine has done considerable work in partnership with the organisation of the NATO North Atlantic Treaty, adopted Ukraine's new strategy for this organization, politically declared and approved the European choice of our state. These and other national security factors objectively require adjustments to internal and external policies, and they need an updated design of Ukraine’s national security. The new concept is complemented by a hierarchy of national security subjects, namely, the Ukrainian people, the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Security Council, the Defence Council, and others, in line with their mandate and responsibility. These seemingly simple things provide opportunities for managing the activities of the authorities, for building a secure society. The priority national interests of Ukraine have been clarified, this chapter 2 has been introduced, in particular, a position that responds to one of the challenges to civilized humanity in the early 21st century, i.e. the protection of individuals, societies and states against terrorism, including international terrorism. There are obvious gaps that were among the priorities identified earlier. These include respect for the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, including in the area of information acquisition and use; the provision of State sovereignty, territorial integrity and the inviolability of state borders; and the non-interference of foreign states in Ukraine's internal affairs; and others. Taking into account Ukraine’s internal historical experience and world geopolitical realities, a list of threats in each of the national security areas has been clarified. With them, with real and potential internal and external threats, the basic orientations of national security policy are synchronized. [[This is chapter four.]] To the previously classified areas of national security itself, this is political, economic, social, military, environmental, scientific and informational -- another added: the cross-border sphere. The necessary level of security in this area is not only an attribute of statehood but also an important factor in good neighbourly relations with other countries, a contribution to the European security system. By the way, not only in a traditional sense, but also a plan to counter such cross-border phenomena as illegal migration, drug trafficking, elements of international terrorism, and the reliable protection of the state’s exclusive maritime economic zone. For the scientific support of state policy, it is proposed that the basic function of the national security system be complemented by the following subsection: "State Monitoring of National Security of Ukraine", which includes a complex, a series of measures. Dear National Deputies, in chapter five: "The system of national security, obviously for essentially technical reasons on the way to the Supreme Council, has fallen out of paragraph two, which, in our view, is important, namely, I quote: "The system of national security is the State-organised population of subjects of public bodies, civil servants and individual citizens, united in goals and tasks of protecting national interests that carry out concerted activities within the framework of Ukrainian legislation. This paragraph was in a document approved by the National Security and Defence Council. And we're proposing that it be restored to what we reported at the meeting of the profiling committee. The nation as a whole, exclusively with citizens and social organizations, is the main subject of national security. And to perfection. The Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council, at its meeting on June 12, this year, reviewed and approved a new edition of the National Security Concept. The implementation of the basics of the concept after its consideration, wealth, this is the dialectic process, and the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will determine not only the policy of national security, but also the continued development of our state in the early 21st century. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u85	Thank you, Eugene Kirilovich, and you. Dear colleagues, is there a question? Please sign up for the question. Please, five minutes. Let's take a look at the board. Verni Dubov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u86	Dear Eugene Kirilovich, I enjoyed your clear report. I would like to ask you, your attitude towards the fact that in society, such phenomena as bribery, corruption is widespread. That's what we're going to do, and we're going through this. economics, weak investment. As you think, do you also consider it necessary to have these things in the design of the National Security Concept and do you not think that you have a more specific, substantive attitude towards these phenomena in the law enforcement authorities and, above all, the Ukrainian Security Service?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u87	The new edition of the National Security Concept emphasizes the need for and development of civil society, the development of civil society institutions, and it also addresses the problem of the quality of power. And in the last section of the security system, which deals with the authorities and structures of government and public organizations that are supposed to provide national security, and the anticipated quality of the law enforcement authorities of those who have to deal with these dangerous phenomena, such as corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u88	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u89	Rudzkowski. Please pass the word to Barani.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u90	National MP Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u91	Thank you. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski Say, Your Honorary Reporter, the present state of Ukraine, where it is, which is related to the work of the commission for the trade in ringtones, Melnicka's films today are known to the world, and whose confirmed authenticity, the records of the people who killed Chernobyl, whose owner you were, how does this affect Ukraine's national security, which it incorporates into this strategy, and is it foreseen that there is a clear responsibility for the people who are leading Ukraine to such a situation? That's the first question. And the second. As you can see, how it affects Ukraine's national security, when we had a budget for Ukraine, let's say 85 billion dollars 10 years ago, today we have 11 billion, and when we say another budget is in the shade.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u92	Ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u93	What do you mean, the benefits? How do you see it? How Do You Affect?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u94	When you look closely at the threats, the chapter that defines national security threats and they come out of the need to protect national interests, you will find the answer to the questions you have asked. Of course, it's on the concept paper level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u95	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u96	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Communist faction, Zaporez region. Dear Eugene Kirilovich, you were in the Tokmak city of Zaporozhye district during the election campaign. I'll tell you, they've made a good impression, and they're still asking me the question that I came to you. We've got a big business called Southendizelmash. It refers to the group, so to speak, the defenses and today they are almost dead. I went to all the offices — both the President and the Prime Minister and so forth. Whether the National Security and Defence Council considers these enterprises as strategically important. And in general, they're needed by the state today or not, because if such an enterprise is going to die, then, if you'll excuse me, the only thing that's unique about producing diesel generators that go to the BMP of all modifications, on submarines, on the ship of the shipping fleet, and so on. Today, the dead are practically dead. And where you're not going, total zero. That's my word, I didn't turn to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u97	Questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u98	There is certainly no answer to your question in the concept, but we will consider giving you a problem of this enterprise, because we have a Security Council meeting to consider the development of the defence industry, and if it is in this sector, we can and will do so with your help, perhaps with a call from the Director to help solve the issues that are before this enterprise today in the context of the overall defence industry development programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! Maybe we'll take five more minutes to ask, because there's a lot of people who want to. Please, five more minutes. People's Deputy Goernik, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u100	Deputy Goernik, Valley Electoral District 89. Anatoly Kirilovich, I don't know if you're on the border, I was this year. No barbed wire, no broken strip, a column per mile of border. Do you think such a Western crown should look like? And I think if that's what he looks like, isn't it time for you to resign? That's one question. The second question. You, while in the Ivano-Frankiv region, have promised to promote the recognition of UN-OPA as a warring party. Why do you fail to keep your promises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u101	So far away from setting up this issue and the official plan, I've stated and today I'm saying, and I'm convinced that recognizing the UPA as a warring party is only a matter of time. And the sooner this is done, the better it will be for our society. As far as the border is concerned. The Security Council and the apparatus are directly involved in this matter. Twice this issue was discussed at a meeting of the Security Council and this and last year, issued appropriate decrees, activated appropriate mechanisms to the government, and I had to be on the border more than once, including during my vacation. And the border, if it's free of barbed wire, is probably a modern European border. Mainly in order to work, how it needs to be done, the border guards, the proper operating services, the customs officers, and the barbed wire are not the best example of the border. In Europe, there is no barbed wire on borders in almost all European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u102	National MP Mokchan, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u103	Thank you. May I have the floor to the Zarubinsky deputy?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u104	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear Eugene Kirilovich, you have touched upon an extremely important information security issue in your speech. Everybody knows that there's a whole range of media, media outlets in Ukraine today, and it's getting more and more, funded not only by private non-U.S. sources, but by the government of some other countries, where this money is officially allocated to the relevant parliaments and, at the same time, these media openly support some segments of the political spectrum of Ukraine as opposed to others. Do you think this is a normal situation? And what do you think must be done to ensure that information security is still implemented in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u106	The picture that you've drawn is abnormal, although, on the other hand, it has to be taken into account that isolation is not the best way to defend its information security, its information independence. The best way is to contrast high-efficiency national information technology, information policy. But what today, really, in the most influential media, the electronics, the foreign capital present, is, I think, the subject for study and the Supreme Council. This is a question when we discussed at the Security Council meeting, and this was this year, a question that concerns information security as part of the information policy, not the other way around, and this issue was also set up as an acute issue not only for study, but also for the production of proposals, mainly non-prohibitive, it is no longer possible to do so, especially in order to clearly limit the presence in the form of an appropriate percentage of foreign capital, which, although now may not have a serious impact on the policy of these media, but in a critical situation, as we know from experience, it can have a significant impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u107	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u108	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Eugene Kirilovich, please tell me if some of the Ukrainian national MPs, perhaps in the political corner, are spreading calls to foreign states asking for an international isolation regime for Ukraine, whether such actions can be regarded as a betrayal of national interests and a threat to the national security of the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u109	The appeal of any citizen, regardless of his status, to a foreign state, to the violation of Ukraine's rights in any way is at least anti-patriotic and not patriotic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u110	Thank you, Jedgen Kirilovich, time is up. Dear colleagues! We continue to consider this law. Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, a member of the Committee on Dangers and Defence, is invited to the report. Dear colleagues! I'm under the impression that I'm breaking the Rules. We go according to the 45 - minute Rules of Procedure. One minute, we didn't vote for the other. I'm watching the computer. And for the discussion, we're going to set a time. Of course. I ask you, Ivan Alexandrovich, you know the Rules better than I do, and don't blame me, vote, five hours, vote. Thank you. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Following the commission of the National Security and Defence Committee, I report that the Ukrainian President's draft of the Ukrainian Act on Change in the Concept of Fundamental National Security Policy of Ukraine was considered at the meeting of the Committee on 17 September, under number 2062. The committee's critical analysis showed that the bill in general was consistent with the system of official views on the principles of public policy on the protection of national interests and the conditions for Ukraine's continued development. In our view the vast majority of participants in the discussion, the new edition of the concept of the fundamentals of national security policy of Ukraine is a step forward in comparison with the current concept approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision of 16 January 1997 on subjects and subjects of national security, its principles of security, Ukraine’s national interests and threats, as well as the basic orientations of national security policy, the structure of the national security system and its main functions. During the discussion of the bill by the committee and invited experts, a number of comments and suggestions were made to the content of the concepts. A low level of constructive suggestions also includes the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s chief scientific expertise. In general, the results of the committee and the experts of the work are appreciated, and it can be noted that the bill under consideration needs further work. It is considered necessary to give a more clear and balanced classification of threats to Ukraine's national security, because some of the threats listed in the project are, in fact, factors that reduce Ukraine's ability to resist certain types of threats. Ukraine’s structurally structured list of major threats to national security has also led to inaccuracies in the distribution of national security policies according to the relevant spheres of activity of the State. Furthermore, the main tasks of such a policy have not been formulated, including with regard to the implementation of the National Security Council and the defence of Ukraine's NATO strategy. Part of the proposals is related to the solution of cross -cutting issues, namely the drafting of the Ukrainian National Security and National Security Act. In this context, I draw your attention to article 12 of the Ukrainian Defence Act, according to which the General Staff of the Armed Forces participates in the formation and implementation of the military security strategy. That is, the strategy of military security as part of a national security strategy is defined by Ukrainian legislation, and this is appropriate to be reflected in the relevant chapter of the National Security Concept. The National Security and Defence Committee believes that these shortcomings should be addressed when preparing the bill for second reading. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific Administration is also positive. Taking into account what has been said and considering that this bill has been designated as urgent by the President of Ukraine, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. At the same time, the committee undertakes to draft a bill for the second reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the legislators. The majority of the votes for this decision were 9, against 1, with 1. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, please support the National Security and Defence Committee's proposal for the bill, as well as take an active part in its further work on the second reading. I remind you that the principles of democratic civil control over national security and defence also oblige us to ensure that our voters are able to participate in the discussion and improvement of the bill, especially since it has caused great interest on the part of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to sign up. We'll take five minutes to ask questions. Let's take a look at the board. National MP Chubarov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u113	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I am personally coming out of the fact that we must first address problems of an internal nature that affect Ukraine's national security in one way or another. Internal problems need to be solved not only at the right time, but also, in my opinion, in the open mode. You personally know that many politicians speculate on issues related to Ukraine’s national security. I especially care for some of the Crimean politicians who design in their head and then print their so - called geopolitical versions in the media. Well, I just sometimes laugh, as they say, and sin. Don't you think, in order for such poor politicians to stop somewhere, that those institutions of state that have to produce, guarantee, implement the doctrine of national security, they have to work in a more open regime, that is, print their analyses, express themselves more clearly, including the Ministry of Defence, the President, the Security Council and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u114	Thank you. A dear colleague, just in the design of the concept and in the draft law, has clearly defined subjects and subjects of national interest and national security. And it's very clear about the openness of subjects and jobs, and what subjects are involved in both the public and the media. By the way, that's the difference and the concept in 1997.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u115	National MP Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u116	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Uliy Timoshenko. Alexander Ivanovich, we have worked with you on that committee and, in principle, I support the bill and I propose that it be adopted on the basis of the first reading. But I would like you to publish your point of view on this question, because I think it would be useful for everyone to listen. Ukraine is free to miss people from Asia, from faraway countries, and it's not stopping them, and in the western border it's not stopping them, it's not missing them in Poland, and then they're holding them, they're setting up camps for them, and then they're paying $3-5,000 to send them away and so on. It is better to make sure that these citizens do not want to come to our home. That's a different way to think about it. Well, we can strengthen security on the border, it's an old-fashioned method. And a new method that many countries are already using is the imposition of a 2-3-year penalty. These people who come there from Ceylon or somewhere far away, they're being checked with their documents. If they don't have a residence permit in Ukraine, they're going to be planted for two or three years, and they're going to order the tenth, and they're not going to come here. How do you view the practice that some nations are already applying to apply it to us? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u117	Dear Levko Grigorovich, thank you for your reminder. I want to remind you, in turn, that in looking at the draft law and the chapter of our problems and our national interests, and our security in the so-called, cross-border sphere, I've noticed that there can't be a cross-border sphere. There could be a sphere of foreign policy. And that's when my point was that the border guards shouldn't be dealing with illegal immigrants for six months at the expense of feeding them. The border guards must defend the state borders of Ukraine. So our task with you is to change it so that it's clearly defined how borders close, who does what, who does what, who does what, who for some reason enters the territory of Ukraine and what to do with it. In doing so, stressing that they should not go to Ukraine illegally.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u118	Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, a faction of Communists
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u119	Alexander Ivanovich, at the beginning of your statement, you said that the draft law was consistent with the system of relations that had been established. I am interested in how much of this draft law is indeed in the interests of Ukraine's national security and the interests of the Ukrainian people? I'm telling you what this is all about. The NATO movement means a violation of the Constitution on Ukraine's off-block status. Entering NATO means denying Ukraine a nuclear-free status. That is, we violate, on the one hand, the Constitution of Ukraine, on the other hand, the Declaration on the Independence of Ukraine. What is the concept going to do with this, with this contradiction?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u120	That's exactly what I've done with the comments made by the committee. The State Is Processed The Council of National Security and Defence of our objective strategy in cooperation with NATO. But the final decision needs more internal and external procedures in the state. The concept itself envisions a series of positive measures and responses to possible threats both inside and outside. On the first issue of NATO, these procedures still need to be followed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Time's up. That's it, thank you. Alexander Ivanovich, thank you. We agreed not to take a break, dear fellows! So we're working now. Dear colleagues! Let's talk about this. The point is, we've been looking at it for almost 40 minutes. I'd like to take about 15 minutes to discuss. Is there no objection? None. And I give the floor first to the People's Deputy of Manchulenka, he's the author of an alternative bill. Prepare the People’s Deputy Yukhnovsky. 15 minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Please consider the arguments below carefully, since the bill submitted under 2062 of 13 August of this year, "To Change the Concept of Fundamentals of National Policy, National Security of Ukraine", is crucial for further settlement of relations in the field of national security. The text of the draft Ukrainian law, number 2062, needs to be processed in a natural manner using the weighty work of experts, which is presented to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the form of a new version of the Concept. A dynamic way of life shows that Ukraine’s needs today are not matched by the mere completion of the existing text of the document. Ukraine is in dire need of a conceptual beginning of government, as it still has a negative impact on the lack of a strict conceptual line in government policy. This will help to strengthen further and further the development of democracy, to increase awareness, and to strengthen the responsibility of the public authorities for decisions that are taken to set an order in the economic sphere. Let me give you a situation that does not take account of the bill. First. It is especially important that the principle be first of all national security subjects to have citizens, their constitutional rights and freedoms; secondly, society; thirdly, the State was not a slogan in separate chapters; rather, the hierarchy of the principle in the contents of all chapters of the bill. The other one. It is also very important that the content of the bill be based on the principles enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine, which will promote the principle of the rule of law in Ukraine. Note article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines, paragraph 17, the basis for national security. With this in mind, I propose a new title to the bill, the concept of the basis of national security. What is the concept of the basis for Ukraine’s national security? This is a legal and regulatory act that defines the general design and outlines the system of general regulations for the formation of national security policies and the identification of their basic orientations. The content of the main part of the concept -- national interests -- comes mainly from articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the concept works in advance of making changes to the relevant articles of the Constitution of Ukraine or to replacing the Constitution of Ukraine as a whole. The main function of the concept is to define the national interests of Ukraine, which establish the orientation of national security policy. At the same time, the concept does not take into account the current situation in the main part of Ukraine’s national interests. The position of the concept as a national conceptual document, the question of the formation and implementation of State policy, is governed by the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. An important function of the concept is to define the content and structure of the process of conceptualizing public policy. This is achieved through the introduction of three groups of State conceptual documents, namely, the concept of the basis for Ukraine’s national security, the strategy for national security, and the strategy of doctrine on the constituent aspects of national policy. The three groups of State Conceptual Instruments are subject to a strict hierarchy and will be provided. I'm sorry, but since I'm still the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u123	One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u124	I'll try in a minute. As a result, there will be a coherent, one-stop-shop, one-stop-shop concept for the whole state administration system. This will allow the State to reconcile its efforts in internal and external politics, in the national economy, and will also allow for greater transparency of power for society and foreign partners. Four. Another important function of the concept is to sort things out with terminology. The fact is that terminology in national security is not yet permanent. Various experts use different terms and interpretations. The document defines such basic concepts as "national interests", "national security", "State policy of national security", "national security system", "hazard of national interests," "calls." Terminology was also addressed by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration in the analysis of draft Law 2062. For example, in the proposed draft law, it is difficult to understand what the authors meant when chapter 2 was called "Ukraine's National Interests" and chapter 3 "Ukrainian National Security Threat". Fifth. The concept of national security approves the overall structure of the main subjects of the national security system for further identification of their powers in Ukraine’s laws. In view of the above, I propose. First. Convert the text of the document according to the above-mentioned arguments. The other one. To implement the proposed changes, I introduced my bill as an alternative. Third. In order to adopt a well-balanced law, I propose a bill on the Concept of National Security of Ukraine for discussion among political scientists and the public. One of the possible directions for discussion is the holding of conferences and assemblies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u125	Thank you. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. Prepare for the national deputy of Pavlovsk. Three minutes, please. Manchulenko spoke for five minutes because he had an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! The concept has to be written in plain language, and I'm drawing the attention of Eugene Kirilovich. Among the main areas that provide security for each state is the development of state patriotism. So there's no other very important sphere of humanitarianism in this concept. Ukraine slips into a state of cosmopolitanism and diversity, and there is a complete dispersion of society into a shadowy function and a fundamental weakening of the state. At the recent hearings about education in the state that was in our parliament, one of the professors came forward and said, please tell us who is actually threatening us, why do we have so many armies, why so many different militias? I really counted the different types of police that exist in Ukraine, more than five of them, and the destruction of education in the country is the most important threat. Consider, for example, the letter for the first class of the Hungarian schools in Zakarpat. There is not one word in general in this letter about what Ukraine is and that this child lives in Ukraine. Ignorance of science is the basis for a state’s backwardness. Ignorance of the State in Ukrainian is a general threat to the State. We should take into account that the most important scientific and constructive decisions come to mind in our own language. And if we don't, we're not going to have a universal solution and function in the Ukrainian language, we're going to slip into the condition of the backward people. Neglecting state patriotism is a huge economic and political threat to the state. In Ukraine there is a lack of laws to regulate all aspects of the state’s life. And if there is no law, there is patriotism and a citizen's conscience in relation to other citizens of that state. Not the development of patriotism leads to both economic and political consequences. Information security. So far, the State Standard has not provided a standard for the introduction of the Ukrainian alphabet into the computer. To do that, they need some 30 bucks, and they're missing them. The development of information systems is such that in time there will be free computer adoption of commands given in the native language. The situation of English, Russian, German, French, or other languages will disappear. The most important thing in the country is to incorporate into the standards, not only standard security rules, but also specific rules for each individual state. For Ukraine, the most important issue of national security is the comprehensive development of national patriotism in Ukraine. Until the development of the humanitarian sphere is included in the national security programme, this programme will not be sufficient. Eugene Kirilovich, I don't doubt your national patriotism, but this patriotism is not expressed in the concept of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u127	Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski, block of Julia Timoshenko Prepare Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u128	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the President's letter to the Supreme Council this year states that there has been no scientific reflection in previous years of reform. It really is. The presented concept of national security is better than what it was, the concept of Manchulenka is even better, but they both have one major strategic error. National interests are the highest that there can be, and one as a mechanism for implementing national interests is a principle of national security. Therefore, the National Security Act as subordinate should not include national interests, especially since in about 40 minutes we will consider the law on the principles of national interests. I want to say that the report, Eugene Kirilovich, is objectively more meaningful than the law itself. Ivan Kirilovich pointed out that the threat of national danger from today is both globalization and WTO entry. Everything will pose a threat, only to be seen when a threat is made when a requirement is made. If we follow the President's instructions to join the WTO immediately, we don't even need to talk about national security, because the WTO is freezing the technology that there is. We have the biggest problem today, Ivan Kirilovich, which is not reflected in this law, is that there is no economic strategy at all for the development of the state. If it doesn't, there will be no national security -- this time. The other one. In this concept and in the concept of Manchulenka, there is no concept of development. I once had the honour of introducing the notion of "national interest" and "national security," and the main key word, "technological leadership," or at least technological failure. This is not about high technology. And the fact that we're losing these technologies is what we see every day. Even today, the Ukrainian cruiser is on the same base as the company that made it, and they can't repair it. So what's this all about? So the question of technological leadership, high technology, is question number one. That's not the issue in the state. So given that we have laws, principles of internal and foreign policy, principles of national interest, this bill needs to be re-readed and worked together with those laws of domestic and foreign policy, national interests. Then, I guess that's what's gonna happen, and then Manchulenko can join the authors, and we'll work together. And I want to say it in closing. There's one benefit of this bill, which is that our scientific expertise finally understood its error that laws called "principles" should be adopted as laws, not as they suggested, they're not used to. That's why I'm proposing to all of these groups of laws to work out. And here's my corresponding determination, and I want to pay attention, not to take it as a basis, but to work out with the comments that were being made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u129	National Deputy Dobkin, Democratic Initiative Group. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u130	Dear Chairman, Honourable Eugene Kirilovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's National Security Project is a detailed list of Ukraine's national interests, a clearer definition of threats to national security, a clarification of the main orientations of Ukraine's national security policy. This is a positive document. At the same time, recent events have shown a tremendous lack of compliance with public policy, the actions of a government apparatus in general, and the expectations of society. In general, there are over 100 conflicts in Ukrainian society involving politics, economics, and the social sphere. They are all born of injustice and disharmony between power and society. This is a major internal threat to Ukraine’s national security that threatens the foundations of Ukrainian sovereignty. This is a threat that will require the conclusion of a consolidating contract between civil society, political elites and authority, a refusal to oppose politics. The distribution of powers among the subjects of this process should be determined not only by authority but also by responsibility, a shift from a vertical type of policy to a policy of social balance and contrasts. But the authors of the concept are not aware of this. Responsibility for an existing situation in the concept is translated into opposition from the political forces. At the same time, the competition of the political forces for the electorate's segment, their struggle for voter votes, is a perfectly normal and natural phenomenon, which should by no means be seen as a threat to national security. On the contrary, this testifies to the ongoing development of civil society in Ukraine. This is defined by article 15 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that social life in Ukraine is based on the principles of political, economic and ideological multiplicity. So we need to define a new accent configuration in the concept project. In developing the Ukrainian National Security Concept, we must focus our efforts on consolidating society and bringing power closer to the needs of the people while maintaining ideological and political diversity. According to article 92 of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine determines the basis for Ukraine’s national security. It is therefore appropriate to define in the text of the concept the authority of the Supreme Council in the first place and the authority of other public authorities. In addition, this will be in line with the principles of reform of the government declared by the President. The Democratic Initiatives MP group claims that the concept should be substantially closer to the reality of today, which is in line with the principles of Ukrainian legislation. We support the adoption of the draft law in the first reading, provided it is redrafted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u131	Please, Ivan Alexanderovich Hare, faction of our Ukraine. It's only there by the book.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u132	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Movement, Our Ukraine. To evaluate the new edition as best possible, the formula is a step forward, two steps back. Which is a step forward in the new edition of the concept of national security compared to the old one. First. The project expands the list of so-known, priority, so-called, interests, and threats to Ukraine’s national security. The other one. A number of positions have been introduced that respond to the events of September 11, last year. That's practically it. What are two steps backwards? First. An analysis of the proposed list of priority national interests suggests that in Ukraine civil society has already been built, national harmony, political and social stability. So it is only to develop and strengthen them. Actually, that's not true. The other one. A number of important provisions that were previously reflected in the concept have been removed from the denial of national priorities. These are the excluded positions. Ukraine's priority national interests are: guaranteeing the rights of the Ukrainian nation and national minorities, the development of the Ukrainian nation, the historic consciousness and the national dignity of Ukrainians. It turns out that in Ukraine there is already a modern or, according to the terminology of the United Social Democrats, a political nation. And in that case, ethnic doesn't matter, and the Ukrainian nation is just survival. Can we, in Ukrainians, agree with such policies? No, it's not. We will not allow anyone to follow the Ukrainians, narrow their rights. The provisions on guaranteeing the rights of the Ukrainian nation should be renewed. Moreover, article 11 of the Constitution speaks of the State’s obligation to promote the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, its historical consciousness, tradition, and culture. Third. Among the main threats to national security in Ukraine have been the disappearance of the following situations: the massive violations of Ukrainian citizens’ rights, the imposition of censorship. The question is, are the threats to Ukraine's national security already being addressed? - Obviously not. Four. The new version of the concept, as well as the previous document, does not mention the integration of Ukraine into NATO, the European Union, i.e. European choice is not seen as an important factor in internal transformation and guaranteeing national security. General formulations on integration into the European and global community, on the entry into existing and established systems of universal and regional security cannot be seen as clear measures, because there are decisions of the National Security and Defence Council that guide Ukrainians to ensure their national security through their accession to NATO and the European Union. Is it possible that this is no longer the case? That's why the authors of the concept try one more time "to run between the dots" and hide their heads in the sand. And the last. Therefore, I propose to introduce into the Concept a position on integration into NATO and the European Union on the application of measures to extend the scope of the Ukrainian language as a national language, on non-censorship, on the expansion of broad environmental education and the introduction of integrated state resources, on the implementation of policies aimed at eliminating military bases as soon as possible from Ukraine. In particular, the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. And with regard to language, dear friends, we should put this at risk of narrowing the functioning of the State language as the basis for unity of the nation and putting it in institutions to expand its scope of operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. As for the decision, we will be determined by the vote. We are now going to consider a package of bills on the principles of internal and external policy. Dear colleagues! We need to consider eight bills on this. I have an offer for how to organize our work. For reporters, give up to 10 minutes, answer the question, 5 minutes, 10 minutes for co-reporters. [[There's a y. We have two co-reporters.]] And for discussion, 15 minutes. What's more, the next step. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. The next step is we have a presentation, a working group that has to produce one synthesized, unified document that would be. Well, that's what we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. As we vote, then we'll take the basis. No questions asked. Dear colleagues! And since our colleague Billorus has to report three times, he can ask once and give 15 minutes to present. Is there no objection? I invite you to present a draft law on the basic principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, to the profound conviction of our faction, the faction of Communists, it is delaying the three calls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the adoption of the law on the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies, that is, a clear definition, a foundation and effective implementation of the national strategy and development tactics, that has led to the practical manual administration of the state, both by the Cabinet of Ministers and by the President. Governments change almost annually. And unfortunately, yesterday’s meeting in the Ukrainian House is a vivid confirmation. Each government has a social economic development programme to its discretion. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts a bunch of openly imperfect, secondary laws, and, as one of our previous fellow national MPs said, the state is dying. The economy, the social sphere, is broken. Social tensions in society have reached an apophet that threatens Ukraine’s national security. Ukraine's bill on the principles of Ukraine's internal and foreign policy was drafted by me in accordance with the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as enshrined in article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, and defines the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policy, which should be central to the development of legislative and other legal acts in the decision of the authorities of the State on the internal life of Ukraine and its activities in the international arena. The draft law contains 25 articles and covers the entire spectrum of domestic and foreign policy. The main objective of the implementation of internal and external policies is to overcome the systemic crisis in Ukrainian society, to move the country to sustainable socio-economic development, to establish democratic principles of social life and the rule of law, to ensure Ukraine's real economic and political independence, to strengthen its national security and defence, to establish it as a full member of the world society. What are the basic principles of economic policy? First of all, it's subordination to ensuring Ukraine's real independence, it's the social orientation of the economy, it's the equivalency of the different forms of ownership of the country, its nadr, its water and other natural resources, its strategic fields and its enterprises. This is a priority for the development of national production, for the protection of the internal market and for the domestic producer. It is also a state control over the payment and use of employment in enterprises and organizations irrespective of the form of ownership, the increase in the economic autonomy of the regions, and the restoration of the public control system of public authorities and local self-government. The draft law requires the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create such a tax policy that should be conducive to our own producers, and the tax system to be transparent, socially fair, stable, simple, understandable, predictable, protectionist about our domestic manufacturer. Among the directions proposed by this draft law in relation to budgetary policy, it is proposed that it should be directed towards the financial security of the country's priority economic and social interests and of every citizen in the Constitution. The main areas of fiscal policy are, in my view, reflected in the project, the increase in budgetary resources, the security of the State budget of Ukraine, the optimization of its revenue and the implementation of adequate budgetary expenditure at the expense of the state control of the sectors that provide constant revenue to Ukraine's budget. With regard to banking and monetary policy, the draft law also provides for regulation of the monetary and credit market, the removal of the reasons that led to the demonetization of the domestic economy, the resolution of the payment crisis, as well as ensuring the stability of the national currency, the gradual displacement from foreign currency remittances, is also gradual, for a period of not more than 5-7 years, a return with the statutory indexation of devalued labour savings. Regarding pricing policy as a component of these principles, the State is using measures to prevent unjustified excesses, create artificial deficits, regulate prices for products and commodities of primary necessity, and tariffs for utilities. Taking into account social activities and the need to ensure the economic interests of the State, it is proposed that subsidies be applied. The policy in the area of pay, I think, and this project also reflected, should ensure that every worker has the right to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family, including adequate nutrition, clothing, and housing. In the area of privatization. The state maintains strategic industries, including a fuel energy complex, primarily nuclear energy, a defence complex, and enterprises that provide vital social interests. The other one. Conducts a review of enterprises that have become private property to suit their privatization of current legislation. Third. It suspends, in violation of the law of privatization of state property, and in cases where necessary, does so primarily in the interests of nationals, in accordance with the law, the privatisation or the nationalization of illegally privatized property. Four. It stimulates the development of a network of public enterprises with a tax system. In the direction of agrarian politics. In my view, the land used for agricultural production is passed on to the permanent use of collective and private agricultural enterprises, farmers, and personal support to citizens, with the right to inherit and cannot be an object of purchase or sale. And the state, for its part, provides for targeted use and protection of land resources, the use of government procurement for agricultural production, this is, by the way, we are with you every year when we consider the draft budget, how the state is virtually rejecting this policy. And the development of technical and other assistance services for agricultural producers, the full support of domestic agricultural production. It's about social policy. The main task of the State in the social sphere is not to declare but to ensure the real rights and freedoms of citizens, especially the right to work and their just reward. For recreation, for social protection, and all that helps our citizens to live rather than exist. To this end, the law provides that the State will ensure the development and implementation of the State’s social support programme for young people, women mothers, the restoration and expansion of the network of children’s and preschool and preschool facilities, the restoration of a network of health institutions, primarily in rural areas, and the provision of a guaranteed range of free medical services, taking into account the general trends in the health dynamics of the population. Regarding the rule of law and the rule of law. The law provides for the revitalization of the world's experience -- the fight against organized crime, the theft of budgetary resources, corruption, above all, in the highest echelons of power. The closure of criminal security channels, as well as the law, is designed to strengthen control over the external and economic activities of business entities in order to stop the illegal export of foreign currency and material values for looting. In terms of the direction of the external economic course, the foreign policy course. By pursuing Ukraine's foreign policy in line with national interests on the principles set out in the Declaration on Ukrainian State Sovereignty, it will continue to support and deepen the mutual benefits of strategic partnership with the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, especially with the Russian Federation, the countries that are its neighbours, other states of the world. The most important thing, I believe, is the economics of foreign policy, the full participation of Ukraine in the integration processes of the SND on a global and global scale, in conjunction with the Russian Federation and other SND countries. External economic activity. In my opinion, the policy of the state in this area should be geared towards securing the needs of Ukraine's economy with the necessary import, balance, development of export potential, production of a competitive product in the external markets, reduction of the import dependency of the domestic economy. The same directions, if you look at them, they touch the political system, we've talked about this over and over and over again. The implementation of the principles of internal and foreign policy is carried out through legislative mechanisms, in the relevant spheres of social life, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and this law. The adoption of this law will, firstly, allow the Supreme Council 3 to implement its powers as enshrined in article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, secondly, the rules of the Act will allow legislative, executive and judicial branches of authority to have clear guidelines in the drafting of legislative and other legal acts aimed at resolving the country's exit from a deep socio-economic crisis, as well as raising the standard of living of our people in Ukraine. These are the main issues that concern every politician today. And if we, the people's deputies, under the Constitution, define basic principles as the direction of the development of the state that will guide the adoption of those or other legislative acts, then we will have one of our main functions with you: to ensure the direction of development of the state, not to destroy our economic and political independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, is there a question? If you have any, please sign in. Light up on the board. Yes, please, Bitchkov, the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine". Please, five minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u136	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, distinguished colleagues. In your presentation, you have outlined virtually all the sections of your program of external and internal politics. Is there room for space technology to develop, because our nation has always been an advanced nation, and now we have 10 percent of the world's commercial space launches? And how do you personally feel about our country becoming a country of high technology and then a country of software development, which is basically a core component of the cost of any industrial product?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u137	Thank you for asking. I agree with you and I fully share your concern about the need to develop and support new technologies, high-tech technologies. This is the future of our nation, this is the future of our grandchildren, our children. So I'd like to say the following right away. First. Today, everything needs to be done not to destroy the level of achievement that we have and to implement the scientific developments and technologies that we have today, protecting ourselves from destruction or from selling to foreign nations. This is the first time. It's different. Only then will we be able to implement and implement this idea when we have an economy that will enable us to support both scientific and technological development. So this is what we're talking about, and it's in my project that it's set up to first create conditions for the state to be economically developed. Then it will need both scientific development and new technologies and will always take care of its competitiveness in all directions. But today there is a question that needs to be addressed first.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u138	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u139	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Peter Mikolaiovich, today we are looking at the issue as it is stipulated in our Constitution. So today we're looking at the principles of internal and external politics. Today, there are other basic principles of foreign policy that are still on the agenda. So as you think, we need to look at this together with the principles of foreign and domestic politics, or can we look at it separately in order to technically reduce the tension on this issue. That's the first one. And the second. Do you not think that when we come to accept these principles, first we need to define the concept. Let's say it's a rule of order for the Supreme Council to define the principles where the basic concept that has the substance of those basic principles will be laid down, and then the principles will be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u140	As to whether it's separate or whether it's a matter of foreign and domestic policy when we're talking about principles. I am convinced that it is only a matter for us to consider together. Because if we tear each other apart, then we have the opportunity for some politicians, especially when they are also in a position to have a major state government, there is a desire, without relying on the ability and states to claim certain external economic or political relations, and through them, virtually, so to speak, to destroy our economic, once again, base. It's you and me today. That's why I offered you. It's the only policy that should be a state. Both directions, and others, should primarily contribute to improving the living conditions of our citizens. And that's what the project I'm proposing is about. In terms of concept. I think there's one problem with, let's say, eight projects or nine projects have already been submitted. We all have our own ideas. We have to go through this stage that we're going through right now. We'll discuss, we'll be told by the national deputies of observation, their vision. Then you can, indeed, as Vladimir Mikhailovich suggested, if no one is accepted from the projects, then you can join the efforts of the national MPs on the concept. But I think that this stage needs to be followed in order for each of us to continue to realize what we want.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u141	Thank you. Fucking Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u142	Peter Mikolaiovich. Fucking Communist faction. We've been looking at this project and the faction, and while we're in places in the Cherkas region, people are looking with understanding at this project proposed by the Communist faction that you've presented today. But people look forward to what will be the first steps to improve the lives of our poor and disadvantaged people. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich, as you can see.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u143	I just touched it, because time doesn't allow you to fully express your approaches to the implementation of what's already in the guidelines. It's just among the main sections that are about social policy, the issues that relate to wages and the regulation of the work that is being done in a particular product, and it's connected with government policies regarding wage levels, relative to tariffs, regarding the right to receive free education, medical care, housing, medicine, benefits given to veterans and certain categories, that I've also mentioned about women who raise children, about our young people. It's a general system policy that we propose, because by taking one question away from the other, we see and we face it all the time. We've drawn, like, one question at the legislative level, and we've buried or destroyed another. So that's the first line of reflection in this project that has to do with people's living conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u144	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u145	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u146	People’s MP, Oleg Grigorovitch, is invited to report. Oleg Grigorovich, you will present three bills immediately. Is that what I'm saying? We agreed on 15 minutes, because three bills. Please don't beat it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u147	Dear Head! Dear national MPs, colleagues! Thank God, for the first time in 10 years, the Supreme Council has embarked on its highest responsibility to form principles of national interest in national development strategies and principles of domestic and foreign policy. I think today, when we start this big conversation with the desire to achieve the outcome of the compromise, we have to assume that the absence of the principles of national interest and the national development strategy of Ukraine has led to the so-called lost decade of Ukraine. We today need to think about the global orientations of our nation, where we, who we are, and how we feel after more than 11 years of formal sovereign statehood. We must answer that question before the people. And I find it criminal that certain political forces have failed to produce and implement the Ukrainian national strategy. Let's look at the world. Today, advanced powerful countries have moved from an industrial era to a post-industrial, from an industrial society to a permanent one. And our Ukraine has moved from a highly developed industrial society to a deindustrialization situation. So they went into the innovation-intellectual sphere of development, and we went into a deep economic and social crisis. In this situation, Ukraine, in this particularity and in this national task of implementing the national idea of Ukraine, which is now defined as sovereign statehood, democratic society, the well-being of the people, human rights and freedoms. So when we talk today about the principles of internal and external politics, I inevitably have the question that we're unfortunately putting everything up or letting it go. Let's start with the wrong side. The only key to developing such strategic documents is the national idea and principles of national interests. We should have started with the definition of the national interests of Ukraine at the depth of the development horizon of the first quarter of the 21st century. That's why I invited the Supreme Council to consider a bill on the principles of national interests. And today I report this bill, number 1183, registered on 11.06 this year, which is being submitted for the second time, and which national MPs of the third call and today's vocation had the opportunity to study in detail. Drafting national interest bill, based on national development strategy, is also a bill that I have developed and will be registered literally in these days. The design of the project, the bill on the principles of internal and external politics is based on a large and, recently, active work of scientists, especially the National Academy of Sciences. Since I've been given a limited schedule and asked to report on the substance of three laws at once, and since we have not been able to hold conferences for the national MPs on these important issues, I am sending all those who want to see the latest publications under the auspices of the National Academy of Sciences that have been carried out under my scientific guidance. Here's the book Globalization and Development Security. In this book, all that Eugene Kirilovich and Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski said is the first time that the concept of Ukraine’s national development strategy has introduced the idea of security of development. I have to tell you, dear colleagues, that this development line that we're being pushed on from the outside and from the inside, it's dangerous. We're being pushed into what we call traditional industrial development. You know the point: Dig deeper, get more ores, float a boat out of a boat, drain pipes, move abroad, and hide the currency, and hide the duo in Ukraine. I think that such an industrial era is a sinister way of developing Ukraine. As a legislative body, we should fight against such a strategy. The only possible national development strategy for Ukraine, based on the situation, is an intellectually innovative pre-development strategy. Let's face it. Globalization is today the ideologie of development in the world. It divides into two parts, as a natural process of natural integration -- it's a positive one, and it includes a malignant system, which I call an economic system of globalism. It's a system where absolute political and economic and financial power is taken over by global corporations, they destroy nations, states, and they view the whole world as their natural resource market, which they want to exploit in terms of 20 percent of the population of the gold billion and 80 percent of the population in a circle of the first, in a circle of the second, in a circle of the third, and in a circle of the fourth. You and I are going to come across this global strategy in about a third of the underdeveloped countries that can't protect themselves from the hegemony of these global corporations. And that's why we've been developing all three laws, and we've come out of the situation in the world, and we've come out of this strategic perspective that we've been seeing for 25 years at the depth of the horizon, because that's how strategies and concepts of the national interests of all the countries of the world that have gone through this. Dear colleagues, I'm reporting on three bills: the bill on the principles of national interests, the bill on the principles of internal and foreign policy, the bill on the principles of foreign policy separately, and I told you about the bill on the principles of national strategy and development. I also think that the bill on the principles of internal and external politics should be the only bill. As a specialist in economics and foreign policy, as a leading institution of the world economy and international relations, which, for the first time in 1990, developed the foundations of Ukraine's foreign policy and the foundations of internal policy and external economic activity, I believe that foreign policy must be fully subordinated to the internal interests of Ukraine's development, internal strategy, internal policy. In another case, foreign policy is transformed into a decorative activity that does nothing to Ukraine and does not ensure the realization of national interests. Sadly, that is what it is today. We recently visited the United States, and an embassy employee told me that Ukraine's trade with this country has fallen from more than one billion dollars to 400 million dollars in the last five years. When Ukraine was in the midst of highly developed industrial countries with UN qualifications, when Ukraine was the third nuclear power, both in America and in Europe they took Ukraine seriously. Today we have lost the status of strategic partner, today the level of international competitiveness of Ukraine is approaching a critical, threatening minimum. If we, the university professors, have previously intimidated students into doing what we should do because we're three times behind America, today at the hourly rate of productivity, we're 66 times behind. Here's the scale of our tasks, here's the responsibility, here's what we should have in terms of mobilizing national development strategy and its mechanism, the principles of internal and external policy. Dear colleagues, I have no opportunity to report these four bills in detail. I just have to say one thing: our faction, the Motherland Party, our friendly parties have accumulated quite a lot of experience, and we're ready to work with all our colleagues. And I believe that in a joint effort of 2-3 months, working paragraph by paragraph, as it is done, paragraph by paragraph, doing this problem of work, we will be able to present to you a comprehensive, balanced document of strategic importance. I believe that and I'm willing to work with anyone who wants to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, a question to Oleg Grigorovich, if you have any, please sign in. Light up on the board, please. Yes, Bitchkov, the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Labour Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u149	And he'll do it orally.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u150	No, just sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u151	Dear Oleg Grigorovich, distinguished colleagues, my question of three parts. Do you not think that Ukraine now has legislation where separate laws contradict each other? Should we not follow the example, for example, of Eastern European countries, Poland, and adopt a whole range of important legislative acts on issues ranging from the laundering of dirty money to the tax code that would meet European standards and guarantee dynamic development? Do you not think that as part of the national idea of China, we should make protectionist conditions for our industry from light to heavy? So that, for example, we wouldn't be happy with the plant, the steel mills, and we would install modular plants on our metallurgical enterprises, from the flow of metal to the release of the variety. And they would have produced ready-made products before we joined the world trade organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u152	Ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u153	And I think in your bill there are a lot of these pathetic colored conclusions that my colleagues don't understand as legislators. For example, what is the sacred law for the protection of one’s own national interests? That's the third one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u154	It is very difficult to answer your question, for your question is a venegret that does not even resemble mayonnaise. I was expecting you to ask a specific question. Well, I'll try to crystallize something. If you don't know what the sacred law is to protect national interests, I'll remind you. It is a universal law under which citizens of their state are willing to give everything and blood and life to protect sovereign statehood, not to sell the state to the left, to the right. With regard to metallurgical issues. I worked at the UN for a long time and I was asked, "Where do you metal girls go?" Ukraine’s Metal Fund makes up space figures. Production was 56 million tons of steel per year. So today the problem is strategic in another way. We have to take some small steps, even though we have to move in pieces to implement the structural transformation strategy of our economy. In this industrial economy, and now the deindustrialized type, we can't move on, ensure poverty eradication, ensure a new quality of life, and move on to the information age that the advanced countries of the world have entered, which they call themselves a knowledge society. It's a violent contradiction. We're a literate nation, but we've stopped at the level of development in the 1990s and since the 1990s we've been rejected 50 years ago. This is a Ukrainian tragedy, and from this, my dear colleague, we must leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u155	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u156	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Oleg Grigorovich! First of all, I would like to say that we have to give due respect to all the presenters today, and especially to those who directly wrote them, because this is a big job, whether they're accepted or not. I ask you to comment on some things. First. Your bill proposes to protect all forms of property on an equal footing. [[See chapter nine.]] But there is no reference at all to the right of private property for land, which is inviolable under article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Is that a mistake, or is that your principle position? First. The other one. You write in chapter one, two that the field of foreign policy among others provides effective protection of international national interests. I'd like to comment on that. And the third. Ukraine, you write, participates in peacekeeping operations only under the auspices of the UN. What if Ukraine, as a member of other world European organizations, if these decisions are made legitimately, does not participate in United Nations peacekeeping operations? And lastly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And one more moment. Oleg Grigorovitch, you're a skilled expert. Please tell us that the geopolitical perspective of Ukraine is to become a link between East and West. Maybe we've had enough, enough talking about chains, bridges, and so on? You know this multi-species thing that's leading to dissipation of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u157	The first question is whether he wrote the law himself. I write this right, I write day and night. And nobody wrote anything for me. International national interests. It's a concept. Well, you might think that we have the right to talk about Ukraine as a great European state, which I believe is going to protect its greatness and be a global state, because it was like that, it has the right to realize its global interests. Consider these international national interests. I mean, national interests that go to a regional, inter-regional and global level. As far as peacekeeping operations and the United Nations is concerned. Nevertheless, the only legal basis for Ukraine's participation in international peace operations is the UN and Security Council decisions. If we let Ukraine participate in any way in local, regional conflicts, we will not collect the bones from our troops. We can't do that, because so many who want to drag us both into Chechnya and here and here, we can't do that, we've given too much blood in the 20th century, and too many of our children, the children of our people have innocently laid our heads. With regard to the chain and the vernacularity. You're better off than anyone else, my dear colleague, you know that I'm in favour of an active, strong, consistent balanced policy and I don't accept multilateralism because it's taken Ukraine to a dead end. Multiversity for our great European state means nothing more than political prostitution. Stop it! We have to make it clear that we're going forward, we're going to Europe, we're going to Euro-Atlantic partnership, and that's a guarantee of our progress. If we're being pulled back, it's a degradation and it's an interesting position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u158	Oleg Grigorovitch, and about the land, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u159	As far as the earth is concerned. I personally and in the bills are and even in the "Paternity" program, to which I also have a bearing, I stand for private property on the ground, but only for my patriotic citizens. Selling land to every good person, legal person, firm is a crime against the Ukrainian people, because they're going to buy it for nothing, and then they're going to sell us for $30,000 acre in pieces, and today they're going to buy a hundred dollars acre.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u160	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich, time's up. A report from the draft law on the basic principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies is welcomed by Vladimir Leonidovich Spivacuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u161	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a bill of the principle of internal and external politics of Ukraine under number 1042, introduced on June 19 this year by me, Alexander Moroz and Joseph Winski. This bill provides for the definition of the main strategic objectives of both internal and external policy, and it is accordingly envisaged that it will be the basis for the legislative activities of the Supreme Council for a long period of time or, in fact, for a period of time. It should be noted that the principles of Ukraine's internal and foreign policy, the bill proposed, provide for a whole range of documents, adoption of a whole range of documents that will enable it to be implemented to the fullest extent. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that our bill is prepared on the basis of a lasting and, I would say, such complex and extensive work. The socialist party of Ukraine, which I represent today and whose project I represent, has been speaking since its function for Ukraine to have a clearly defined, transparent and understandable policy. That is why the anti-crisis program of the Socialist Party was adopted at the first U.S. U.S. conference in June 1992, which, in fact, predicted the actions laid down in the draft principles of internal and external politics. The antichrist program was obtained by the then authorities, but it was completely ignored. In 1994, this room adopted the main economic policies for the transition period initiated by the Socialist Party of Ukraine. But by October 94, they had been overturned by the so-called radical economic reform course of President Kuchma. What this course has led Ukraine to, I don't think we need to talk about today. That is why, after the adoption of the Constitution in 1996, a bill on the basic principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies was discussed, adopted and proposed by the Supreme Council. And I fully agree with Oleg Grigorovich today that even though these bills have been introduced in the past, but only today did the Supreme Council seriously begin to discuss these very important problems of life for our nation. It should be noted that when a coalition arose, and in the last summons, members of the past call remember that several drafts were also proposed, none of them in principle passed, and that is when the deputies of the last third call were proposed, the national deputies of Ukraine Alexander Moroz, the bill on the definition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies. It is this bill that I think we need to look at in a package with a bill on the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies, because it defines the basic conceptual positions that have already been discussed here today. The principles of internal and external politics are defined in article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine. They are accepted by the Supreme Council of each call, usually for the full term of responsibilities with additions and changes. The newly elected Supreme Council may confirm or amend the previous call for internal and external policy to change its basic positions or to adopt new principles. Article 2 of the conceptual law provides for both the basic content and the structure of the internal and external policies that have to lay down as a basis, I stress once again, as the basis of the entire legislative process. And finally, this bill, which I'm talking about, which was introduced by the Council of the past call by Alexander Moroz, provides for an order for changes to the already accepted principles of internal and external policy, from the position of President of Ukraine, who is entitled to do so and can propose it to the Supreme Council and the relevant executive authorities. In fact, what has already been said, what has already been asked about, the bill on the conceptual basis of the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policy, is proposed, and I would ask the Supreme Council to support this bill when we decide on the adoption of the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policy. Now, some of the points that characterize a bill that we've drafted, which, in some ways, is either different from the ones we've set out before, or they're kind of different. First of all, we believe that the successful establishment of Ukraine as an independent, sovereign state in the context of the complex transformations that are taking place in society today is possible only for a credible, coherent, purpose-oriented implementation of the internal and external policies that are supported by the people. There is a need for unity on the basis of national interests, and there is a need for unification on the ground of the achievement of certain strategic goals that the bill foresees. The drafters gave special attention to combining the national regulation of the economy with market regulators, the development of entrepreneurship and the self-organization of labour groups, and the strengthening of the role of local self-government. Social policy and the democratization of the economy, as well as the overcoming of clanoligaric monopolies, are important. In line with the system of proposed technologies for improving the socio-economic situation in the country, a policy of transformation has been developed in other areas of Ukrainian life. In general, the bill is made up of 19 chapters that cover the main policies that should be formulated and formulated here in the Supreme Council. It's an economic policy, it's a social policy, it's a youth policy, it's a gender policy that has recently taken on an extremely important importance in Ukraine, because, unfortunately, we're pushing a woman out of political and social life, leaving her only separate, so to speak, tendencies. It's social policy, it's legal policy, it's national policy, it's humanitarian policy, it's environmental policy, it's external policy, it's defensive. In fact, the bill is based on defined situations in Ukraine today as a transitional stage, a phase transition from industrial to post-industrial society. Although I can't agree with the previous reporter. Grigorovich, who expressed the right idea that we were already thrown into the pre - industrial era and, more specifically, into the feudal era. But we have always come from the need to ensure that high-tech production is preserved and developed, which is still in existence in Ukraine. That's why the main sections of our bill are sections of economic policy, which are sections that predict whether or not they define, more specifically, the basic positions of internal and external politics. And we come out here that foreign policy has to be based entirely on internal policy, on addressing relevant socio-economic issues. And the main priorities of the strategic development phase of Ukraine are developed according to the development of high-tech production, the revitalization of employment, the formation and development of high-skilled professional potential through the development of education, science, and the development of man as the main component of our lives. The adoption of the proposed bill will, in our view, allow us to specify the main orientations and priorities of the development of the Ukrainian State and, indeed, turn Ukraine into a nation-to-state, a sovereign state, a state that is worthy of international participation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u162	If you have any questions, please write them down. On board, please list your names. Please, Ostash, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u163	Dear reporter, you said in your report that the basic principles of foreign and domestic politics will change every four years, that is, to change the new composition of Parliament. But what then, if, let's say, there's an equilibrium in Parliament like what we have today, when there's not a real majority in Parliament. And that means that the state can live for a long time without the basic principles of foreign and domestic politics. For example, the last basic principles of foreign policy were adopted in 1993. And the situation in the last Supreme Council has shown that we are unable in this way to pass a law on basic principles of foreign and domestic politics simply because of ideological opposition in the hall. So how do you see the mechanisms still ensuring that decisions are made on the basis of Ukraine's foreign and domestic policies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u164	Thank you so much for asking. I would answer that question in that way. Well, first of all, today I agree with the previous speaker, we have, unfortunately, a decade ago, Ukraine has been in manual control because of the imperfections of the electoral system. So here we have to solve all the questions in the complex. And our bill provides for a comprehensive solution to all economic, social and political issues. And I'm convinced that this majority formation, which is now felt in our parliament, I think that both the radio listeners and the MPs have long since convinced themselves that most of this is gone, that it can't be created, that it's the formation of the majority that's being exerted under the pressure of the power structures, that it's written by the administration, so called, it's never going to give meaning, and it's also been seen in the last Supreme Council, and unfortunately, here in our environment today we can't find a common language. So the mechanism for implementing the principles is a mechanism for implementing the Constitution, it's a mechanism for implementing the people's political will. Because most can be created only when it is created on the basis of those political powers that have been favored in the elections. It's going to be that much, it's going to be okay. There won't be a majority, so we'll work again in manual control. But today I am convinced that the representatives of all the political forces in this case are not ideologically opposed, but rather that we go to the normal structural work of Parliament. And I think that this desire will make it possible to ensure that the principles of internal and external politics are adopted and that they are implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u165	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for the Empty Tank.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u166	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleague! Please tell us, what is the place of our people’s worldview of what is called mentality in the defined principles of internal and external politics? Do we have to consider this, or is it just a derivative that we can't count on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u167	Thank you. Well, as far as I'm concerned, if I've correctly understood your question about mentality, we see it in the examples of elections, and in the examples of different, so to speak, actions that happen in our country at times. Yeah? But in this case, I am convinced that if we can find out whether this bill is going to be adopted, whether it will be the passed draft of Peter Mikolaiovich, most likely all that is likely to be done is a comprehensive approach, a rational grain chosen, but that there are already appropriate conclusions from the expert services and the Supreme Council and the National Academy of Sciences. I mean, it's going to be a very long job here. So I'm convinced that if we are these principles. We're going to accept them, and if they're going to live, then the level of that and the law, and the respect for the right that we don't have at the moment is going to be in place. I mean, here we have to work first with our constituents, who don't believe anything anymore. But when we can go through this step and when we can get to the level of acceptance of the principles of internal and external politics, their implementation, I think that's going to be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u168	Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u169	I give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u170	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u171	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I don't want to talk about the majority, because, you know, when people are afraid of something, they talk about it a lot. Obviously, there are some fears that are common in some part of the room. But I have very specific questions for the reporter. In your bill, I take part in foreign policy. By the way, it's quite flat-lined, sorry, but it's said that Ukraine thinks it's a mistake to extend the NATO military organization to the east. Do you think this is right for many countries that are in line with NATO? Is this correct for Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic? Is this correct for the Baltic countries? They're not being asked to join NATO, they're standing in line. This is the first moment. One second. You say that the consolidation of Slovenia remains a priority. Do you include Poles, Czechs, and hundreds of thousands of German Slavs living in East Germany today? Did you ask them if they wanted to consult with the East or to consult with Europe? And one last question. You're saying that negative trends are now known as globalization. You're identifying globalization as completely negative. Whether it is a misunderstanding or a mistake, explain it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u172	Thank you. Now for specific questions. As to, say, most of it, we're going to watch it, we're going to figure it out, because whoever talks about it is the majority. As for specific questions. My conviction and I have never hidden it, and I will not hide it, that since the collapse of the Warsaw Treaty it has been necessary if we are to approach the very processes of globalization that you are also talking about, we need to have common sense and dissolve the NATO military and non-military organization. This is my firm conviction. As for the accession of Ukraine to NATO, the extension of these interests, I say again, we have a clear Constitution that Ukraine is a non-block state. You're gonna have to get out of here. I heard you. Listen to me. So there's no validity here, there's no invalidity here, there's everyone deciding for themselves, and in the end, we're going to be dealing with this issue definitively. Now with regard to Consolidation and Slovenia and the development of the Slovenian movement. Yes, I'm including everyone here. And in the end, it is within the framework of globalization that we need to develop relations with all countries, peoples, and especially those that are primarily close to us by spirit. As for, let's say, the last question, in this case, you have to say that there are both positives and negatives of globalization. That's what this was about, that's what it was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u173	Thank you. Time's up, it's up, it's up. Thank you. Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich has the floor for the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u174	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The rest of the press! People's deputies! I brought here to the rostrum of the work of native scientists, not foreigners, the work of native scientists, who convince us that we should live with our minds in the interests of our country. What is more, it turns out that the problem of globalization and others is objectively the most fully explained in the work of our scientists. With modesty, Belarus did not say, but the book Globalization and National Strategy of Ukraine, by Belarus, yes, Globalization and Development Security is about 40 scientists, according to Belarus, it is indeed a global book. I want to show you that those scientists who are sitting here within the Supreme Council, really, on the basis of their work, you can actually develop the principles. I want to say that a lot of conformists don't even read textbooks. I think one of the best economic theory textbooks in the world is Mocherný, Simonenko, Secretary and Ustenko, our colleague. And I'm not going to be very modest, and I'm going to say that I brought my two books, and I'm going to remind you, "The transition economy: the Ukrainian context" and "The social development strategy." Ukraine and the world." Moreover, I want to say that the methods of research, the methods of developing the strategy are also generalized in the work of our scientists, particularly academic Michael Zgurowski wrote "The Ways of Our Rebirth." I'm going to make an extraordinary report in the sense that I'm just going to give you a scientific basis. Notice, the President's letter states that there was no scientific reasoning. So I went out to this rostrum to really be scientific, and I urge Zarubinsky's and others to come out of these: all the bills need to be worked out and accepted. Moreover, it turns out that it can be the basis that the entire Supreme Council will create a majority without exception, these are the very laws that are strategic, because Samuelson, the Nobel Prize laureate, once said, "Normal authorities are fighting for the normal standard of life of their people. It's not the normal authority to fight for power." Then we need to become a normal authority. And I want literally five posters, please show me poster number one, on the screen. There's a whole science called technological predictions. In Kiev, an international conference was held in KPI, and many countries of the world told how they had developed strategies, and they had plans and strategies. This conference was even thematically designed for our Ministry of Economics and Integration, but unfortunately none of them came to this conference, and I was there. I want to draw your attention, you see this kind of triangle of technological predictions, down below, you see, the basics are objective knowledge of the development of society, different methods, including brain attack. So, the fact that we're discussing these bills with you is an expert method, all of you experts, all of you are making proposals. We have to go to that third point here, to the right laws. And then my bill differs from the others because it has several chapters, and I have written out what kind of society would please Ukraine so that it can join the European Union. And that takes three conditions. It's not just that we're accepted there, it's that we reach the right conditions, it's that simple. Three. We must achieve a level of democracy like that in Europe. We need to reach a technological level like that in Europe. And we have to reach a standard of living, as in Europe, that's all we need. And to do that, you have to put it on a scientific basis and set priorities, because if we take the ratio of developed countries to weakly developed countries, those that are driven by raw materials and intelligence, these are colonies. We, by the way, have the status of the colony, we take the intelligence to the west and the raw material, and we bring back the finished production, so the wages should apply as one to 20, to 40, and that's what it is today. So we'll never have high technology, as we said today in the hall, unless we have space technology, if we don't build a Galileo space link system with the same Europe and so on. I mean, the basics are high-tech, high-priority. Why do we have a tragedy today? Because we were moving, really, not there. I want to ask for a second poster, and we'll see where we're going right now. Please show me the second poster. It turns out that I'm introducing this coordinate system, and it turns out that all the countries of the world have three strategic ways: one is to go one extreme, one is to market fundamentalism that we went to, and George Soros, by the way, in the book The Crisis of World Capitalism, wrote: "Rink fundamentalism and democracy are not compatible. market fundamentalism and progressive development are impossible." And we were moving, this second way, to market fundamentalism. We didn't go there, as it was written in the letter, we moved into the 18th century to the market model, we were naive about the market economy. The way to the other extreme is to state socialism, it's number one marked, it's off. And there's a third way -- in a circle of developed states, to a mixed economy, that's what developed countries have. Now, what is this model of society? It's written in the law: to develop countries have a non-market economy, a non-market society, a state-controlled society. And in the end, I'm going to allow myself to be immodest, and I've introduced the concept of "sustainability of the economic system" and I've proved the theory that the necessary conditions of stability are necessary and sufficient conditions of instability. It turns out that we've been building a fragile economic system from the very beginning. And don't do anything like change governments without changing courses, nothing will happen. Well, to understand what stability is and what society we're building. Could you show me the third poster, please? Now, it turns out that developed countries are going to be their society as a hierarchy of social order: environmental order is at the heart of human interaction with society, economic, political and at the top, cultural, moral order, there and mentality, that's all. But what's interesting is cultural in a broad sense. Technology is a technology that we don't have. So today, if we evaluate, we find ourselves at the lowest level, and in some cases we're below the level of the organization of society, so crime, corruption is natural. We need to build a society of a developed country. And even in the bill, I write out the signs of the developed countries and what it takes for us to be a developed country. And yet, just to be clear, it's all very simple. [[104th poster show]] Yes, the fourth poster, if you look at it, turns out that all the developed countries, especially the experience of the United States, show that it can't be a stable system when own money doesn't work for its own economy. Well, there's a difference between all of them in Economix, which is, you see, I'm drawing T1, T2, this is one country, and this is the other. Goods, money, goods. The market system. If I break the feedback, the negative, where the lines are broken, the system will be unstable and do not do so. Today, we have broken this link in two ways: we have about 90 percent of imported goods in the market today, that is, our money goes there, you see, to another state. That's the first one. And the second. Our banks today have set such interest rates that if they work properly, it is impossible to develop. Because interest rates are more than 20 percent -- that means that any economy can't develop. So I have specific rules in the bill, based on the world experience, which should be interest rates, how much credit should go into production and so on. So all of this is written in terms of both China and the United States and Germany. All of this is laid down in the law. And in the end, I want you to have the last poster that will be scarier for monetaryists. Look, Your Honor, this is a written model of the United States, the interaction of economic schools. That's the whole line from point C to D. That's the theory of monetaryism. When there's inflation, money is pumped into production, really monetary methods allow for lower inflation, but at the expense of that, it's the law, just because of the decline in production. And so if you stop at monetary policy, you can never grow. For a short period of time, you have to put money into production, and that's Kane's theory. And if over a long period of time, it turns out to be the basis, this trend is called economics, this is a long line, this is the long waves of Kondratiev, the innovative theory of Ukrainian Mikhail TuganBaranovski. All developed countries. And we have monographs, reports the Prime Minister tonight, presents the book "Innovation Process," and in the morning comes into the Mineconomy and presents the law that prohibits the innovation process. So just so you know, we only have two percent of the innovation process. So, Your Honor, let's take these bills, they'll unite us. And we will all stand up for our state. And then we're going to mention the statement of the President of the United States of Bush Senior, who said: the national interests of the United States around the world. And we'll understand the tragedy of Ukraine when our president said that the national idea in Ukraine didn't work. And everyone realized that she could be betrayed and sold. And we met when the Vice Prime Minister here was running around the hall saying, "Take the law to destroy the last embryo of high-tech compact disc, that's our Ukrainian technology, and we'll destroy it to buy and drive abroad." So the honourable, these bills make us, in fact, patriots, human beings. And when we accept them, we will be able to look at the eyes of our people and say, wherever I'm from the Supreme Council, where I don't sit, we've adopted this law that defines a development strategy that will lead Ukraine into a circle of developed states. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u175	Questions? Please sign up if you have any questions. Light up on the board. Landik, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u176	Dear reporter! You've told a very interesting theory. In fact, I agree, and the Casey system, it's really, really interesting, really, that's how society should develop. But all the time your report, I've listened very carefully, I haven't heard all about Adam Smith's theory where he's based -- the work is the foundation of all wealth. Why didn't you say so? Maybe you've just forgotten or you're just referring to it in a separate way. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u177	Adam Smith, indeed, one of the institutes correctly formulated, and, as you can see, Draws a pattern of the market, which is clearly written by Marx-good-money-goods. No one has ever studied him more deeply. He developed Smith, you see, he even laid the foundation. But what you're saying is that I have three articles. I have a special article -- protectionism, i.e. protecting my product market, the internal market, supporting it. The methods here have already been said here: both government orders and all that there is; the need for its own potential, and ultimately the fight against poverty and job creation, not in the West, but in Ukraine. Because today, one of the boats we created is supporting three jobs in the West and destroying three jobs in Ukraine. They're 2.5 million -- 7.5 lost jobs. That's why you say it right. The creation of jobs here in Ukraine is only highly skilled jobs, such as your business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u178	National MP, Zarubinsky, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear Michael Antonovich! No doubt you are a famous scientist. And I think that the project that you're proposing might serve as a reference to scientific monographs or even a set of scientific monographs. But it is well - known that there is no need for a certain language for the bill and for the law, such as certain basic requirements. Frankly, there are a number of points that say that this is little like the law, like an economic doctrine or an ideal doctrine. It really is. For example, even this kind of language: to offer, to commit, to assign, to achieve. It's not an order, it's a law. And yet, as you see it, constructive proposals from your bill, and they certainly are, have been included in a joint harmonized bill that the Supreme Council would actually adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u180	I thank you, and I want to say, without scientific reasoning -- even the President in the letter writes -- there is no development. That's why you say it right. And with regard to the autoferat, I want to tell you about the damage to Ukraine. After my essay, when he went to the Presidential Administration, in Ukraine he was forbidden to defend doctoral dissertations from economic theory as a combined specialty. Just so you know. Let's move on. I, by the way, have written these laws for the third time. The hardest thing, as my predecessors said, is to write these kinds of laws. It's really the hardest thing. And I think that together with the efforts of smart people sitting in this room, we can actually write a normal law and not even try to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u181	Black Vladimir Kirilovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u182	Dear Michael Antonovich, a major threat to national interests and national security, has to do with inadequate response to threats and challenges. We have practically all day today on this subject, so I started with that. And it impresses me in your bill. I'm glad you're focusing on modern high-tech technology. If Ukraine fails to do so, threats to national interests and security will increase. And I absolutely agree with you that technology leadership is the main thing that we have to provide for Ukraine. At least shorten the technological gap, because growing it is a breakthrough that leads to a decline in the economy, the spread of poverty, so the focus is on technology. This is where Deputy Landik was talking about work. I agree with him about Adam Smith, but the point is, it's not manual work, it's work that's on modern technology. Once an outstanding American entrepreneur, Ford said that our national pride is our technology. So do you think that in a joint draft of the law, you will take on just the part related to the provision of technological leadership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u183	Thank you very much. What's more, I'm ready for the black job and let everyone talk, and I'll sit and write, take all the suggestions into account. I'm even ready for this. And in terms of technological leadership, I'll tell you, I feel it in my heart, I've created it together once -- Kadenuk even waved at me -- the faculty of aviation and space systems, I'm reading lectures there, the smartest kids learn there. What's the problem? They're not needed. And if it's not needed, it disappears very quickly. I've prepared 12 doctors, about 100 candidates, and I know what it's like to create a new school in a new field. So far, Americans can't do a better hero than Ukraine did 10 years ago. But we're losing it. There's no orders, there's no need, there's no need for intelligence, there's no need for intelligence, it's the biggest problem, and so high technology is the biggest disaster in our country. So we really need to start with this so that our smart people can work on our technology, then everyone will be provided and all will be rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u184	Thank you, Mikhailo Antonovich. Time's up. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenk for the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, it has been said today that six years after the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council has not yet been able to implement its constitutional law, as defined in article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, namely that the powers of the Supreme Council include the definition of the principles of internal and foreign policy. Today, the President of Ukraine has acquired this right, although article 106 of the Constitution establishes the right only to address the people and with annual and successive letters to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the internal and external status of Ukraine. Using this right, the President, in his last letter, defined his vision of how Ukraine could develop until 2011. It is this vision that serves as a political framework for the governments of Ukraine today. What's in it for us? The current policy of our governments, which is largely determined by the Presidential Administration's guidelines and presidential decrees, many of which simply conceal themselves from the public and from the Supreme Council, has led to an exaggeration, to the devastating consequences in many spheres of the social life of the state. The rate of social crisis, the despair of the majority of the population of Ukraine, is now vividly reflected by action under the slogan "Rise, Ukraine!"that have gained a mass character. And how could the authorities and the dishonest media not demean or stifle the public outrage, the Supreme Council should be determined, first and foremost, in the ways and means of solving the political crisis? But today it's just about that, today in order of the day, specific bills and the specific situation that we're tracking down every day and hour in the course of our session. The absence of clearly defined principles in economic policy today has led to, virtually, total economic collapse. How did this reflect itself? In particular, in the non-payment crisis, which has already exceeded any limits, and most importantly, as a derivative, in the total paralysis of the state budget mechanism. The 2002 government budget is estimated to have a deficit, think only of at least 8 billion dollars. In the social sphere, this has led, without exaggeration, to tectonic shifts. I'm only going to name one indicator. In the 10 years that have passed since the announcement, well, 11 years since the declaration of Ukraine's independence. The number of people employed in the real economy, i.e. outside households, the number markets and so forth, has decreased by more than 10 million in Ukraine, and this is very well aligned with the figures that Professor Pavlovsky has brought down today. Three and a half, and according to individual estimates and more "shipmen" abroad, this is the result of the direct destruction of at least ten million jobs in our economy. The actual depth of poverty has now placed Ukraine on a scale with the poorest countries in the world. At the same time, the strategy of overcoming poverty, which the President of Ukraine has declared, does not find, but most importantly, that the most bitter cannot find in these conditions an adequate implementation in government policy. And including the State Budget projects, this is well illustrated by the analysis of the 2003 budget project, which the government is now trying to implement through the Supreme Council. As a quintession today, all of this is a number of violent human rights violations that law enforcement officials unfortunately are forced to do. The events of the last days, the speeches in the Supreme Council, show that we have not only the creation of a police state today, which they are trying to turn Ukraine into. We have a police state today, in which the rule is not a law that is hard, not a state law, but a bandit law. It seems a shame for Ukraine that in the United States a political asylum has been granted to former national deputy Jelyashkevich, and everyone knows that the decisive role in making such a decision for the American authorities has been recorded by the so-called records of Major Melnichenko, where the Head of State discusses methods, if you say so, to raise a national MP with one of the law enforcement leaders at the time. In the past, police officers have launched a gang attack on our colleague, who is in this room, against the national deputy Kravchenk. In addition, this attack was carried out immediately after a critical statement by the national deputy to the address of the minister, then the minister of the interior. Today we have the brutal beating of the national deputy Sovkovic. Who's next? And for these indignant facts, which in any country would be the reason for the unwavering resignation of the Minister of Interior or the Minister of Police, and without any honorable reports. Thus, according to these facts, it is a practice of totally suppressing the constitutional rights of Ukraine. And it's useless for citizens to seek protection of their rights in the courts. The Supreme Council, in implementing its constitutional law, should intervene in this situation and put an end to this antihuman, anti-national policy by the means provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Of course, at this session or to the maximum at the beginning of the next session, we need to confirm, and above all, ensure that the principles of our nation's internal and external policies are respected. Members of our committee, considering the bills that have been reported today from this rostrum, note that each of them, each of them, has its own positive features. And in general, the orientation of these documents corresponds to the directions that, in our view, can contribute to the building of a democratic society, the strengthening of an economic base, the strengthening of state principles in Ukraine as a whole. The Committee suggests that the Supreme Council, in the course of its deliberations, decide on the support of a bill that could be adopted as a basis. If any of the projects did not receive the required 226 votes, it would be appropriate, in our view, to entrust the Supreme Council with the task of creating a working group to finalize the agreed draft document. And what other document do we need to accept? This motive, it also sounds in the conclusions of the Science and Technology Administration, it also sounded in the course of the discussion, in the course of today's session. What should be accepted, whether by law or by decree? As the Scientific and Experimental Authority has noted today, as honourable colleagues have said, the principles in general are difficult to give in to as legislative formalization, that is, to formulate in the form of peremptory articles of the law. Perhaps it would be appropriate to take a decision of the Supreme Council to uphold the principles of internal and external politics. What is more, unfortunately, is another circumstance, as it were, our national feature of legislation in Ukraine. We know that every law must be signed by the President of Ukraine. [[That's what the Constitution says.]] At the same time, the notorious and sad practice of passing laws adopted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including repeatedly, including by the constitutional majority, passing through this procedure. I personally appreciate the very low probability that any bill adopted on this matter in the Supreme Council could be signed by our President. Therefore, in the course of the discussion, the work of the conciliator committee may need to be determined in the form of a document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. We need to hear now about two draft laws: the basic principles of foreign policy. These are the national MPs of Silent and Widow. And a report by the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Dmitry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u187	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Paul Movchan, faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement, block of "Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenka. Today, no one will deny that, at the end of the second millennium and at the threshold of the third millennium, massive and intense radical changes in the world have captured not only the economic spheres but also the fundamental foundations of being. On the background of the diverse estimates of the future, there is one urgent need for our country: changes in sociocultural institutions and governance technologies, which in turn require changes in external political orientation. The bill "On Principles for Foreign Policy and External Relations of Ukraine" defines Ukraine's national interests in international relations and the principles of the mechanism for the implementation of foreign policy and external relations. The need for the adoption of this law is due to the fact that the main part of the regulations, the basic orientations of Ukraine’s foreign policy, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in July 1993, are clearly outdated. A large part of the tasks undertaken, including the acquisition of Ukraine's membership in the central European initiatives, in the PSC, the signing and acquisition of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, the creation of a charter on a special partnership between Ukraine and NATO. Some positions have become obsolete or inappropriate and do not reflect the modern understanding of the essence of today’s global processes and need to be updated in the interests of Ukraine. The bill is called upon to evaluate and properly take into account in its external economic and external political platform the updated software documents of foreign strategic partners. The need to adopt such a bill in Ukraine is dictated by the external political provisions of the Constitution, in particular articles 17th part 7, 18th, 85th paragraph 14 and 23, 88th paragraph 4 and 92nd part 2(2), 106th paragraph 3-4 and 116th paragraph 1 and 15th paragraph 14 respectively refer to the external political sphere and should be duly taken into account in the law on external, external policies and external relations of Ukraine. And it is in the law, as required by the Constitution of Ukraine in article 92 of paragraph 9 of Ukraine, that an active document regulating the State's external political activities was now approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, there is also a constitutional, formal basis for the adoption by the Ukrainian Parliament of the bill. It should be borne in mind that, following the approval of the new Constitution of Ukraine in 1997, the concept of "Basics of National Security Policy of Ukraine" was adopted. Therefore, it is logical to combine the principles of foreign policy with that concept. Ukraine has made a major external political breakthrough that has contributed to our country’s departure from its totalitarian heritage. Without exaggeration, it can be said that the very international influence was an essential factor that stimulated our movement in the early 1990s to democracy to the rule of law, the transformation of the national economy. The proposed bill outlines the direction and priorities of our nation’s activities in the international arena. Under today's conditions, it is time to consolidate the European and Euro-Atlantic choices of Ukraine, the definition of Ukraine's status as a non-block state and the actual balance between East and West as counterproductive and could damage long-term national interests. The European movement of the state can be successful only if it combines full European and Euro-Atlantic integration. The provisions of the bill take fully into account the logic of the historical process in European and post - Soviet space and correspond to the national interests of the Ukrainian people. The EU and NATO integration process stimulates Ukrainian society to produce high manufacturing, legal, democratic and other standards that would strengthen our interests not only in Europe but also in other parts of the world. The European choice of Ukraine does not mean at all that our state should give up its interests in favour of the EU or NATO. Such a move would be the source of Ukraine’s best interests. According to chapter seven of the main directions in Ukraine’s external political activities, it is not only the internal affairs of individual states that are in the present condition of respect for human rights. Clearly, there is not enough of this today’s simple statement of these, and it should be given an active business character. This is indicated by article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which man, his life and health, honor and dignity, integrity and security are recognized in Ukraine as the highest social value. Ukraine has joined the efforts of European nations to ban the death penalty. In line with this constitutional norm, it is for Ukraine and for citizens of other nations to come out. In the context of the implementation of constitutional provisions in the bill, there is a more detailed mechanism for implementing foreign policy. In this regard, it is necessary to determine the time and basic requirements of article 65, paragraph 8, of the Ukrainian Constitution and of the Ukrainian President’s annual and successive letters on Ukraine’s external status. The same applies to the requirements of article 85, paragraph 4, of the Constitution regarding the settlement of the question of the representation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in relations with the authorities of other states, the role of the Cabinet of Ministers in foreign policy, and so forth. The bill provides for legislative consolidation of decisions on the creation of independent structural units responsible for European and Euro-Atlantic integration in ministries and offices. The position of Ukraine's foreign policy and external relations bill applies to relations that regulate foreign policy, external economics and other external relations: scientific, cultural, customs, legal, etc. The renewal of Ukraine's external and political legislative base is a priority and is of an urgent nature. That's why I'm proposing this bill as an urgent necessity for correcting Ukraine's external economic course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! Questions. Please register so that we can now complete our consideration of this draft law. Please turn on the board. Write down if you want to ask questions. Light up on the board. National MP Roman Zvaric, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u189	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mr. Paul! You've named your bill on the basic principles of Ukraine's foreign policy, so I have a very precise name, but it's obvious that you're not engaged in Ukraine's internal policy. Is this because in the list of issues that are defined solely by the laws of article 92 of the Constitution there is no such sphere as internal politics, if so, what you can say to those authors, other projects that just want to settle this legislatively? That's one question. The second refers to the very term used in the Constitution, or external relations, is article 92, paragraph 9. Do you think foreign politics and external relations are identical concepts, or are they two different concepts? If so, how does your bill fit into the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u190	Thank you, Mr. Roman. I'll start with the last one. Of course, these are two different categories and two corresponding definitions of relationships and external relations and external activity. And so, of course, these things are divorced in my bill. As for the centaurs that we've been offered today -- to combine internal politics with external politics -- they're divorced in the Constitution itself. And that's why I've clearly cut off any attempt, because the external vector in the right way, and the external orientation, and the foreign policy in the right way, will have an impact on the internal processes: the internal economic, the internal political -- and then, it needs an undeniable differentiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u191	Zarubinsky National Deputy, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u192	Dear Paul Mikhailovich, I can honestly agree with practically or almost all of the views reflected in your bill. The only thing I would think is that the World Trade Organization should give more attention to our efforts to be there more quickly. But here are two questions that I've come up with, two problems that have arisen. First of all, you have 53 articles to determine that, according to your article 53, the coordination of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of external relations relies on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Paul Mikhailovich, do you think this is right in view of the constitutional status of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? We have worked hard with you in the past, so that the Supreme Council can do more. And the second, one minute, and the second. You're saying that the national MPs are involved in foreign political activity in the order established by the Law on Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, first of all, there's no law, but there's the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and it says that without certain powers and competence, a national MP has no right to speak from the entire Supreme Council, but only on his own behalf. Comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u193	Thank you for your appreciation, Mr. Oleg. I'd like to mark the next one. Of course, constitutional changes are needed in order for us to be able to influence the external course of our nation. And we've been trying with you to pass laws on diplomatic service and all the others that went through the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we've been trying to change. But the Constitution at the time fixed the President's exclusive priority right. In my opinion, these powers just restrict the President's ability to do so. If we are adopting the concept, if we are adopting the law on external economic and external activity of our state, we should certainly have an appropriate influence on all the mechanisms for shaping foreign policy, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and including diplomatic services, as is the case in the European states where we want to go with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u194	Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u195	Second what?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u196	As for the deputy, whether he has the right to speak on behalf of the Ukrainian people or on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u197	I think, of course, if his people are authorized. That's what we need to fix, I think we need to write this, maybe a separate norm, and maybe in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u198	Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u199	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Paul Mikhailovich, please tell me if you agree with my thesis: Ukraine will come to the West, to their markets, but only through the East. Because today the European Union sees the number one market conquest of China as a priority. The U.S. and Japan have a 65 billion - dollar trade with China. And we don't have a billion, and in the West we're going to re-producer all kinds of goods, so we're going to push the Europeans out of their market, only if we move east, the ground is round and we're going west. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u200	Mr. Michael, this again is your thesis, this is another temptation to diversity. We've already gone this way, and we've seen what speculations have been made on this diversity. You know very well that Eurasian so-called symptoms, and these formulas in history have already been implemented, what did they lead to? These systems were not stable, beginning with the Persian Empire and ending with the Ottoman Empire. And when Russian political scientist Yuri Yakovenko writes that Europe is a threat to Russia, it is an exclusively European orientation. That's why we're going to talk about our market conquests in Europe. And they're only possible when all of your concepts that you've demonstrated today and you've proven convincingly that we can compete because the Ukrainian nation is highly intelligent, but we need to change primarily the entire system of power in Ukraine in order to achieve the desired result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m0.u201	Thank you, Paul Mikhailovich. Time is running out, dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. What? I didn't get it. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now closed. After 16 hours, we will continue to consider this issue, and the national deputy of Ukraine, Udovenko Hennady Josipovich, will speak with his draft law on basic principles of foreign policy.
