ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please, Your Honor, take your seats, get ready to register. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There are 367 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules on Friday, we discuss the issue of the day’s order. The list of issues proposed for consideration today, that is, the schedule for this day you have. There are no requests for consideration today, but if you do not have any objections, we have a lot of questions that we could vote on. Is there no objection? A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir Mystrishkin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of funds for programs to be financed in 2003 through the involvement of state loans. I'll bet you a vote on that request. Please make up your mind. Change the voting, the system doesn't work. Please check the "Race" system. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the request of our colleague Masters. Please make up your mind. For - 145 Decision taken. Vladimir Ryabica to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of a subsidy to the Diplomatic Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to compensate for the damage caused to natural farmers in 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. To - 113 Decision taken. Mikoli Bagraeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of a television and radio station for the National Council. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please vote. For - 145 Decision taken. Valery Lebedivsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for human rights violations in connection with the failure of Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers to implement articles 11 and 30 of Ukraine’s Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multistory House. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. For - 138 Decision taken. Vladimir Zubanova to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the unsatisfying state of the telephone network in the city of Zugres Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. For - 139 Decision taken. Mikhail Rodionova to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine in connection with the lack of information for the parliamentary hearing regarding the verifications of the Kyiv plant Impuls. I'll bet you a vote on that request. For - 154 Decision taken. Istwan Haydosh to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine regarding the problems of putting an end to the appeal for termist service, which is being taught in other countries. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. For - 149 Decision taken. Vladimir Onishuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the provision of housing for military personnel. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please vote. For -208 Decision taken. Alexander Turchinov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on ensuring security for the Ukrainian people's deputies and their electorate during the meetings and on the responsibility of the authorities for maintaining public order during the October 12th mass action on the European Square of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on that request. For - 157 Decision taken. The Group of Deputies - Sobolev, Philenko, Tomenko, Greens - to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the issue of law enforcement in the investigation of a criminal case involving the Marganic city head Sergey Kuznietsov. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. For - 133, the decision is made. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee of Forestry on violations of Ternopillis and illegal logging in the Ternopil region. I'll bet you a vote on that request. To - 160 Decision taken. National Deputy Lechchenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Lavrinović, for the improper execution by the departments of the State Enforcement Service of judicial decisions to withdraw from the Czernigivsky Inter-Conventional Building Area of debt on wages and other payments for the benefit of its employee, Lihosherst, as well as for the formation of work in connection with the bankruptcy of the organization. I'll bet you a vote on that request. For - 157 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to Prime Minister Kinakh of Ukraine on the annulment of the position on the conduct of the service by the military and principal composition of the internal affairs bodies of the Ukrainian RSR as one that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on the police, on the public service, on pension insurance. I'll bet you a vote on that request. For - 129 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are being considered by a draft law on economic amnesty. Out of the procedure, please, National MP Matthews, head of the Regulatory Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have one question: when we were registered today, we only received the agenda of today's session and we approached a number of deputies and asked them to ask the question, anyway, that the IMF management report, which we put at the very end, should be brought closer to it at the time of the review. Because, you know, the situation until then in the room will be completely different than it is right now. And the question is very sharp. And I think the national MPs all support that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, that's how it is. I had an official letter today and I had an official decision and I had a conversation with the Minister of Internal Affairs today and I agreed on a 12-hour appointment. I will now ask Hennady Andrievich Vasiliev to negotiate. If that's possible, put 11 o'clock. If he can be at this time. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Law on Economic Amnesty. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Chernevski. It's offered for a five-minute report, the answer to a five-minute question, a five-minute co-report, and a 10-to-12-minute discussion. Is there no objection? Please, Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u4	Respectable gentlemen and comrades. The bill I propose is the most important one I have ever proposed to extend my third participation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please listen, this is very interesting for everyone, because it is about the means that have left Ukraine in various ways. This bill is supported by virtually all committees, with the exception of the controversial issue raised by the Committee on Finance and Banking. But I believe that in this case there was more political order than common sense, because six votes in favour of the bill, seven votes against it. And there is an alternative bill by Mr. Terehin, which I believe has no advantage over the bill I have proposed. And on the committees, the deputies supported my bill. My bill received unanimous support from the budget committee, including the communists, the Committee on Legislation, including distinguished communists, though it was some. Look, I don't laugh when you do. Well, I respect you. Well, come on, come on, let's laugh together.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u6	It is now on the Anti-Corruption Committee. I think he's going to be on this committee, too, because he's right there. Yes, he went to the Committee on Corruption. I'll tell you what kind of money it is. Throughout the period of the independent Ukraine, to which we are all puffed up and rightly, money has gone abroad because of a high mad tax. You know, 70-80 percent of the currency was constantly in foreign accounts. Who sent that money? I want to tell you how a businessman is the oldest, one of the oldest in Ukraine, I'm 12 years in business, I'm fully responsible, this money is not just a businessman, and not even more a businessman, it's money from different people, it's money from employees, it's money from people who work in the shadows, it's money from people who work and pay taxes in the country, it's almost impossible. You know our tax is about 90 percent, I'll repeat it. And I want to tell you about that in the near future. Yes, I've already passed a bill to eliminate VAT. This is a major problem for money-laundering from Ukraine. So far, many of those whose money is abroad, including those who talk. At that time, citizens of other countries: Switzerland, America, Canada are laughing, rejoicing and thinking that we are bad Ukrainians, that we are taking the fucking percentages of money that the government is blowing up from morning to evening, and we leave our money with them. But I want to tell you that their optimism is based on our legislation. If you support my bill, which provides for unconditional amnesty in the course of the year for any means other than murder, human trafficking and drug trafficking, Ukraine will start with prosperity as an economic power. There is no alternative to this bill today. And the rest, you can ask me if anyone has any interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! Any questions to the reporter? Please sign up. Light up on the board. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Leonid! Of course, you forgot to mention that he was still supported by the Committee on Legislative Protection. So I voted in favour. And in principle, the law itself is necessary. Here you can only discuss certain details. And I'd like to propose to you, wouldn't you like to merge your law with the one that once proposed a similar bill by Gregory Omelchenko? I think that in a group like this, you two could make a normal quality law that would immediately lead everyone to believe that a broad river would go back to Ukraine and make, as you say, a prosperous, big, powerful state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! That's a very good question. And thank God you gave it to me. Today, when I was on my way to the Supreme Council, I prayed and asked God to help me convince you that this law would not have been a problem. Today there are similar bills, including the very well-respected Grigory Omelyanović Omelchenko, there is a bill similar to Terehina and there are other bills. But I want to tell you that there are not more than five people in this room who know how to pay back money, how money can return to Ukraine. I'm a banker. The daily currency of my bank balance is $200 million, and I'm dealing with different people. There are theories that are never implemented in practice, because all other bills, including those proposed by Terehin, are conditional. In a corrupt system, any condition is reinforced by instructions. That's what my bill is real and it's going to give Ukraine tens of billions of dollars that it doesn't have any conditions. And it's only heading towards the court. Because if we write "one percent" or "dance" at Customs, right? - or pray to God and put your hand on the Bible, right? - tomorrow there will be an instruction that the Bible should be that size and that kind of publication. And not a penny of money will come to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u10	Please, Yuri Solomatin, the Communist faction. Get ready for Haber.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u11	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Leonide Mikhailovich, your law is very interesting. Article 1 refers to the fact that all the money made by Ukrainian citizens during the years 1991-2000 due to different circumstances is exported and transported outside Ukraine is subject to economic amnesty. And in this article, the second very interesting sentence is that any law enforcement authority, executive or judicial authority is not able to verify in any form the origins of the funds, values and other property imported into Ukraine. Questions. Please tell me that Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko or Igor Mikhailovich Bakay, or son of Leonid Mikhailovich Kravczuk and other very important people will return his money.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u12	He's Leonid Makarovich, I'm Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u13	Please tell me, will amnesty be applied to these assets? What about Volkov Alexander Mikhailovich? Please tell me, will amnesty be applied to these assets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u14	What's more, if Alexander Mikhailovich has something abroad or Lazarenko and returns at least a million, I'll be right in front of him on my knees and I'll say, "Listen dear, well done, thank you!" Because every million dollars, right? He's needed, you know why? To create new jobs to generate wages, factories, enterprises have made money to start working agriculture - that's what the money is for. And I don't care who brings them back. And even more importantly, those people started returning that money to make them believe that you had it overturned in your mind. But I want to tell you one important thing. I have been speaking with such bills for a third time. And I'm sure my bill will pass this time. And when I was three years old, seven years ago, people as respectable as you, I really respect the communists, they thought I was crazy. During that time, I gained experience, and I know what I'm talking about. You don't have that experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u15	Garmash, please, the Communist faction. Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u16	Harmash Galina, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, I emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u17	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u18	Please pass the word Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u19	Please, Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u20	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Leonide Mikhailovich, I'd like you to tell us briefly in one minute the essence and the mechanism of this law. You have to be aware of what people are listening to, and you have to convince the MPs about the mechanisms and the radio listeners who are listening, and I'm going to ask you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u21	I'll just tell you, in Kiev, I've picked me up for all his stories, only Bondarenko, turns out to be an accompaniment, 47,000 votes. My constituents love me. I've been a millionaire since 1993, the first millionaire, one of the first millionaires in Ukraine. I prove everywhere that it's not bad to make money because there are 7,000 people working with me, they get paid almost as much as you do in the Supreme Council. Give people the opportunity to live normally. No problem. And if the radios think otherwise today, it means that their minds are not yet as advanced as yours. I see that you will vote for the law, and look at me with good eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u22	National deputy of Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u23	Dear Leonide Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u24	Do you think I'm setting you up with the circus? You will take the problem seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u25	Dear Leonide Mikhailovich! Leonid Mikhailovich! Dear Leonide Mikhailovich, listen to the final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u26	Yeah, I'm all ears.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u27	Yeah, listen to the last question. I'm more likely to vote in favour of your first-reading project, because this will allow you to add proposals to your second-reading project from other options. But I have a question. Economic amnesty in many specific cases other than murder, prostitution, there, trafficking in human beings, but it still needs to be corrected by the Criminal Code, because it can happen that we give economic amnesty, people import, return, capital, but this is where the Criminal Code comes into effect. How do you see the way out here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u28	Listen, I'm begging you to vote for my bill, because today you're going to be offered unrealistic schemes. We are laughed at by Russia, where 13 per cent of the income tax was accepted. How much we're gonna make fun of people. As far as your question is concerned. I run 300 arbitration cases a day. I have the biggest legal company. I'm not a theorist, I'm telling you real things. My bill will work. Another question is he deserves a very serious job, but if we don't take him on first reading, we will deprive Ukraine of a four-year chance to become a European country. Nothing criminal I've ever seen before when I wrote it, I've seen the grumpy faces of police officers taking bribes from businessmen, right? They won't get me anything!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u29	Thank you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u30	Why is that? Maybe there's another question?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u31	Thank you, thank you, no, no, no. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u32	They leave me to answer the whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u33	No, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u34	This is a very serious question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u35	Turn off the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u36	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, this is not a circus. Now let's figure out, if there's any interest, let's take 20 minutes to discuss this. Please sign up to discuss it. Make an entry to discuss this matter. Please show me on the board. Yavorowski, please. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Yavorowski. I'm very sorry that we certainly came to discuss this issue in such a travesty little key. Perhaps this is the fault of the reporter himself. But I'm not even talking to you that much, to my fellow parliamentarians who understand the importance and complexity of this issue. I think it's very important that our voters understand what we're talking about today. There are two problems that have been hailing over Ukraine and in the Ukrainian air for more than 10 years. Everyone understands, politicians, but no one has the courage to take this step in the end. That's two things we have to do: find a mechanism to return those colossal money that came from abroad from our economy and that made our nation poor today and unemployed. And there's a second problem that needs to be solved: these are all the colossal forces that are now built around every district, district center, near every town that's grown two stories, we understand perfectly that it's stolen, but we'll never prove who, like, when and under what conditions it was stolen. That's why there's only one mechanism: to import, boldly, without fear of introducing a real estate tax. But not the real estate, the house that the employee has in Kiev, or the intellectual or anyone else, not the house, some grandmother in the village, but the tax on the new villas. And enter a high and progressive tax. That's the two things we do. What our colleague has offered us today is a question that has long been raised in the air. I studied how the Poles had done this once to Valens, and his bill, his variants, he has two directions. One: Poles, return your money to Poland. If you declare them and explain where the money is taken, you use it yourself from the first moment, here in Poland, and no one asks you about anything. The second option is if you can't declare this money where you took it, it's used by the Polish state, the Polish government of the year, exactly one year. A year from now, I'm going to give you that money back. Live, reproduce, rich, and so forth. I can't tell you today, honestly, I can't answer 100 percent today, it's a good thing, it's a perfect bill or not, but the idea itself is a great idea. We can keep pretending to be virtuous, you know, like, we're like this, we're gonna get back at Volkov, there's somebody else there, and so on, we're not gonna let that money go back to Ukraine. It's not just about Volkov, it's about the billions of money lying there. That's why I'm very simply asking you, colleagues, we need to adopt this bill. I doubt it's an amnesty law because amnesty means you're already convicted and you're amnesty. Obviously, the term is not correct. Economic Amnesty? Why Economic? Maybe it's financial. These are the things we should think about in our second reading. And although Cherniewsky, I conclude, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is very important. And while Cherniwiecki says that the best option is this law, which declares three articles and four when it enters. That's it. Because he said that if there were any other mechanisms, they would definitely profit from it. I'm not sure. Perhaps there are other points to be settled. I would very much like us to work wisely on this bill in our second reading and to accept it. This will solve one colossal problem, perhaps even entering history as a parliamentary office that we have taken this step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u39	Please, Pavlovsky, prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the acuteness of the problem that this draft law of Chernivetsky is affecting. The thing is, you know, $40 billion has been exported. According to the Institute of Economics, $5 billion is our investment in the Western economy. And we ask for 100 million even our money and we don't. What's more, we're about to adopt the Money Laundering Act, and there's such an interesting scheme. In this scheme of money laundering, it's hard to get the money back here, but it's easy to get it out. I want to take a look at the magazine The Journal of Economics, there was an article by an American scientist that shows that in the United States, through their banks, about a trillion dirty money has been washed away. Notice, even Lazarus ’ money, when it arrived in Switzerland, is not returned. And that's why conditions are created so that our money just doesn't come back. So I want to support this bill in the first reading. It must, of course, be processed. Because I was on my way, my colleagues tell me, and if tomorrow we rob the bank of Cherniwiecki and take the money back, what can be easily imported? That's why we need to take this more seriously, look at it, but consider that this problem is very acute. It's standing all over the world. What's more, I'm going to say, all of our poverty in the state is that they took our money away. Because if our money doesn't work for our economy, it has to go to waste. So if our money were going to be spinning here in Ukraine, there would be a whole different picture. Moreover, as soon as we return the money, we need to change the Banking and Banking Act, commit our banks to work for our production, as Roosevelt once did. I'll remind him: Roosevelt, on March 6, 1933, I sealed all the commercial banks and gave them a license to continue their work only when they gave all their credit resources to the production of the United States and not a penny to the speculative operations. That's the first one. The other one. I call interest rates Roosevelt. 1933 - 0 interest rates are long-term, 6 years - 0.6; 0.8 and they're out of crisis. So Chernewsky correctly said that with such interest rates no one could develop. Because when the interest rate is more than 20 percent, no industry can develop. So the problem of financial security for our industry is problem number one. It's a problem, as in scientific terms, to ensure the stability of the economic system. The economic system cannot be stable when its own money does not work for its production. This is contrary to the monetary concept of the International Monetary Fund. But we need to think about ourselves, not them. Therefore, the law should be adopted in the first reading, the work being done. We can even thank Chernowitz for coming out with such a bill. He did show patriotic feelings. And our job is to save our money in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u41	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u42	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine", People's Movement. I can testify that we have heard one of the best speeches by our colleague Leonid Czernovecki today. Secondly, what I would like to say today is that the introduction of such a bill has shown that the original capital accumulation in Ukraine has ended. First. The other one. A national business elite has emerged in Ukraine. That's two. Third. The capital of the Ukrainian people should work for Ukraine, not for the development of the economy of other countries. There is no doubt that Ford or Rockefeller could in their day call the origins of all their capitals except the first. But it was these people who made their country, let's say, in this case, the United States or the Kruppa Dynasty, let's say, in Germany, the leading countries of the world. I want to stress what my colleagues were talking about today. It would be more appropriate, on the legal side, to talk about financial amnesty. And on the definition of amnesty, we might think about, maybe in the dictionary of legal and political terms, we can find a more eloquent, more appropriate word for preparation in the second reading. And finally. Literally, recently, that is, yesterday, we voted and voted successfully, and the following day, the draft budget for 2003 was put to the vote. I think that the adoption of such a bill, first of all, in the first reading, which is what I'm proposing, and second of all, will give us reason to expect in three or four years' time the budget of the Ukrainian State will not be equal to the budget, for example, of Seattle. So I support this bill and I hope that the MP Corps will be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u43	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I wanted to separate my attitude toward Leonid Mikhailovich, who was honored by me, and for the idea that he wanted to be in today’s hall, as they say. You know, I've had the impression that a bunch of millionaires and a bunch of people who have made their 'crazy riches' in the early 1990s are now one thing, and the people of Ukraine are quite another. What was interesting was Leonidas Mikhailovich's idea that everything could be returned, no matter what was used there, but not by murder. But, Your Honor, let's remember the beginning of the 1990s. How did these first, second, and third millions accumulate? By honest means? Maybe someone invented Rubik's cube and became a millionaire. I'm a millionaire. Maybe someone like Ford built a new car and built this whole system, and I'm for millionaires like that. No, it's not. The vast majority of Ukrainian millionaires who smuggled their money abroad. They took it by way of proximity to financial credit institutions by taking loans and not giving them away at all; by taking loans and handing them over one month's wages, using 10 grand's inflation; by using party and cosmopolitan money, and that means national money, because it was 1 spear, they opened their businesses, they took huge loans and then they took that money abroad. What's the murder for? It is simply a lie to its people. How can people and our listeners today, who have worked for 40 years, and my mother and my father, who have spent on one 968 wallet, today listen to the way they were taken -- they suddenly took the money back in the early '90s. I'm asking a very specific question. Please tell me, did the state do everything to bring back to Ukraine the money that was illegally used and exported outside Ukraine? Is that what everyone in our country is interested in? Are all the measures taken to get the criminals back their money? They didn't come back, they did it through international courts and stuff. No! Because there are obviously not many interested people in this. Today, a special thought is popularized on the grounds that you know all the great riches in the world that have been misused by dishonest means. Who popularizes it? Who. Is that it? Those who want to clean themselves up, as they say. Ladies and gentlemen! You don't have to mention the experience of a 100-year-old, 200-year-old. Today, the early 21st century. Today society’s differentiation on an unfair and illegal basis should not be made up, legitimized and legitimized. Dear voters! Think of those today who will return their money to Ukraine, their children, their grandchildren, their grandchildren, and their grandchildren as elites, not you! Not your children are teachers' children, children's intellectuals, children's intellectuals. Consider whether this law should be enacted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u45	National Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u46	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the bill is a very serious bill proposed by Leonid Czernovetsk, and you can't approach it simply simply simply, you have to figure it all out and think about it. We need to think about the return of confidence in Ukraine by international society because of the crisis of power, the crisis of mistrust in the President, which is why they are looking at the state today. When we adopt such a bill in the form that is now said, we will simply break a whole range of international agreements that we have already ratified as Ukraine, which have become part of our domestic legislation, which we are obliged to abide by. I'm here to reconcile them with each other. But how can you do that? It's not even what the President tells us about being baptized. So I have a question: what about those 200,000 who are sitting in places of deprivation? They stole less than the ones whose money we're about to start and amnesty them all. So maybe we can release four fifths of all the prisons right now, open the door? Let's see what we can do. They're smaller criminals, but he stole a wallet, we say a criminal, he stole 100 million, we say a businessman, put him in the Parliament Hall. I'm sorry, we have to think! We need to think about how to reconcile it. And it's over. It's my job to get this money back first. And secondly, to keep in mind that there is a Criminal Code, that there is criminal responsibility for legalizing money; that there is criminal responsibility for illegal disclosure or use outside Ukraine of currency accounts; that there is responsibility for tax evasion, of congregations; that is, to tell us everything, all of this is amnesty to MPs, steal today and use as much as you can. [[208 Article]] And while you're in government, go ahead and pull! You can't! This crisis will be both morals and everything. And I know that Mr. Chernewsky is a deeply believing man, and we need to think about what to do next. We need to think about why the National Bank and the President of Ukraine don't want to take action today on the free conversion of bracelets. What is it? They tied the bracelet to the dollar all the time, and you're playing. What are you playing with? You're playing with the state. Why is Ukraine the only country in Europe that does not have a freely converted currency? Why? - I'm asking. 11 years old! And I answer, because it's economically advantageous, that's what provides 25-30 percent today in the banks that Pavlovski was talking about, because there's no Roosevelt and no one seals the bank overnight, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u48	Thus, by adopting this law, we need to harmonize it with the Criminal Code, international treaties, our conscience, and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u49	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u50	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Why did this bill come about right now? You can see that the political situation in Ukraine is unstable. Can the adoption of such a law bring these costs back to Ukraine? No, it's not. In a country where the political situation is unstable, under no circumstances will the funds that have been used criminally be returned, because even those who have stolen funds understand -- when the political situation changes, it is not known what will happen to these funds. But one might be the basis for such a law that the President’s family understands that the crimes committed in Ukraine will have to be held accountable for the financial crimes committed in the country. The adoption of this law will make it possible to be amnesty both to the President and to his environment, and to those who are now abroad. After the adoption of this law, Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko will return part of his capital to Ukraine, and the United States will have to release him from prison in the United States and return him to Ukraine because he is no longer a criminal; he can enter Ukraine on the rights of all others. I ask: Whose interests are these? It is in the interests of building a society in Ukraine that will be law-abiding, or in the interest of creating conditions for us to continue to put money abroad in Ukraine for the next 10 years, and to wait for a new period of time when without tax, money can be returned to Ukraine. The following question. Why did this question arise? Indeed, there are conditions for some businessmen in Ukraine to work honestly, pay taxes, and work in the legal field, for they are supported by the budget of Ukraine. And there are those who are robbing Ukraine, taking money off the grid, and they want to get the opportunity to start these funds right now in Ukraine and to buy businesses that are working and working honestly for Ukraine. Now it's a matter of the earth's contemplation. These black funds will go into the pit of the earth. As national deputies, we cannot allow money that has been used criminally to return to Ukraine and continue to influence the course of the State. We have to create conditions for the Ukrainian business, which works honestly in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u51	Thank you. Yes, respected colleagues, all who wanted to speak, had already spoken. Final word, please. We have to sign up. Okay, from the committee? It's a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I went special today when I went to your house to perform the pedal that Stepan Ivanovich Plush gave me as a result of my work in the past Parliament. Only 12 of these are “For outstanding merits in the legal structure of Ukraine”. I am a well-deserved lawyer of Ukraine, an associate who was protected in 1984, not how academic titles are currently being protected and received. What I've heard from many speakers, I'd like to say this to you, I've understood everything for myself: either there's no questions, because you could ask them to me, and they're going to vote against anything, or they're going to be my supporters who are going to vote in favour. The logic of all those who opposed the bill is simple: we starve to death like dogs, but we rot those who have taken the capital abroad. [[But you're not going to die, and I'm not going to die.]] Some people didn't read the bill at all. What does my distinguished colleague of the Solidarity faction say? He did not read the bill, he said things that were clearly written in the bill. We say this: By the year 2000, all that has been taken to the end, we can set those deadlines differently, we forgive, except for the killings. And I'll tell you that everyone who says you say "in the legal field is working." You're a businessman, I'm a businessman. In 12 years, I haven't seen any businesses working in the legal field, all paying bribes, all being under the roof, all being in one faction, one in the other, and the third in the third. What are you saying? And we want to keep this order going. If you want us to continue to be poor, destitute, indignant, laughing at us, please, then let us leave them all as they are, and say, "Let them all plant, and let them sit in prison, that they may all still suffer by this same day, and we shall live and be clean to pass the laws." You will vote against this law in any way, because the question of ideology that you confess is not a matter of discussion. Yes, morality is that everyone has to live the same way as a pig.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u53	Thank you. From the committee, National Deputy Burjak Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u54	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I went to this rostrum with complex feelings. With complex feelings why, because in the Rules, Mr. Terehin's symbiosis is on the agenda. And we are ethically concerned, since he is the author of the subsequent bill, I think it would be useful to share some of the points of view with you. First. In the decision of our committee to reject the bill, there was no political note. We were guided by a moral principle that professes the following: Any idea can be destroyed if it is treated unprofessionally and easily. In this regard, our committee has prepared an alternative bill, which, by the way, took place in the first reading of the last assembly, in the past, the convening of this Parliamentary Hall on first reading. However,
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u55	Please, Leonid Mikhailovich, don't disturb the order. Please! Well, it's the Supreme Council! Please have a seat. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u56	The Committee on Finance and Banking was of the view that this important idea, which is archiving for our society, must be more professionally and deeply addressed to the bill. We therefore propose our own bill, which will be submitted by Sergei Anatolevich Terehin. The Committee's decision to reject because of the lack of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Regarding the decision, we will be decided on Thursday. I think we need to listen to the amnesty bill now. Then we'll have a more complete picture and then we'll be able to figure out better. So let's talk about it this way. We have seven minutes left. We could then now hear a report by the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and Banking on the draft Amnesty Act and then, if necessary, we interrupt and listen to information from the Minister of Internal Affairs and continue the discussion. Is there no objection? I understand that's impossible. But then now, what are we going to do, sit and wait for work? Let's look at the question, finish it, and then move on to the next one, if there's such a denial. None. Please. You're being reviewed by the draft Amnesty Tax Act. Since this has been a warning, we will consider the matter, and then we will proceed to hearing the information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill 2178 "On Amnesty Tax", prepared by the people's deputies Teryohinim, Burjak, Kaputzini, Kalichenko, Tsushk, Galiyev and Svatash, is being submitted to your consideration, to make it clear that a working group was working on it. I'd like to talk very briefly about the economic and administrative motivations that are laid down in this bill. And if you let me, I won't talk about my education and the medals I have. First. The economic motivations of this bill. The project is based on assumptions that the main motivation for the return of capital to Ukraine is the low level of the overall risks of political and economic investment. We are reminded that according to estimates of Ukraine's international rating offices, it has one of the lowest credit ratings among non-warring countries in the world. It should be noted that the level of taxation of corporate and personal income in Ukraine is in itself one of the smallest in Europe. However, an exception is made up of countries with so - called offshore zones that do not provide for the taxation of income derived from outside such offshore zones. It follows that the only motivation behind the outflow of capital outside Ukraine is the desire to temporarily save in areas of reduced risk or so-called investment calm in the form of deposits or short-term deposits. This, in turn, shows their high levels of liquidity and potential willingness to be transferred to Ukraine if the level of investment risks is reduced in the future. Moreover, the simplest and least expensive way to return previously exported capitals to Ukraine is to import them in the form of foreign investments or to invest them in bank deposits in the name of a resident natural person without identifying the sources of origin. In the first case, funds are protected against requests, nationalizations, or confiscations under the Ukrainian Foreign Investment Regime Act. In the second position of the Cabinet Decree on the regime of citizens'currency accounts in authorized banks in Ukraine. [[Decree No. 1]] Among other things, the practice has become widespread in Ukraine, and the recently adopted privatization programme has had to impose restrictions on the participation of offshore companies in this process. Conclusion. In order to create economic motivations for the return of capital previously exported outside Ukraine, it is necessary to reduce the overall risk of investment investments. The project is designed to legalize its objects, allowing tax authorities to make reasonable use of the assessment methods, tax liabilities in the future. Administrative motivation. To determine the role of administrative motivations, we will consider the composition of the subject matter and its subject matter. You know that the individual licenses of the NBA require a placement operation, i.e. a cost-accounting operation, a profit transaction, offshore accounts, an investment abroad. In other words, it's licensed to open these accounts and account for them. In doing so, their use, in addition to the need for foreign licensing, is not subject to write-offs. We have to consider how the term "investment" in the Corporate Income Taxation Act is defined as an economic operation that provides for the acquisition of basic funds, intangible assets, corporate rights and securities in exchange for money and property. So the term "core fund" is defined this way. Under the term "core funds" we need to understand the material values used in the economic activity of taxpayers over a period exceeding 365 calendar days. In the analysis of the above, it is clear that the most common ways of formalizing money and assets abroad are not subject to monetary regulation, but rather to the criminal legislation of Ukraine. Especially in cases like this. Opening accounts by a resident using offshore mechanisms. That is, in the creation of a jurist, or partnership that has no status as a jurist by non-residents with a further agreement or commission between such non-residents and the resident for full or partial management of the resident’s remaining funds or assets of the company. (b) The discovery abroad of targeted bank accounts and the write-off of funds for the benefit of third parties, not on the basis of a resident’s orders, but on the basis of the general terms of the credit agreement. Use of the parallel payment scheme with the next commitment. Investing non-residents in investments abroad that are passed on to property or use by a resident of Ukraine. The only administrative motivation for the bill is to legalize capital by declaring it to be used further as a basis for the income of their owners in the future. Conclusion. The project allows for legalization of tax bases on which the increase of future taxpayers will be calculated. And finally, very briefly on tax motivation. I'll be done in a minute. The bill extends the right to legalize income for both natural and legal persons. This is caused by the fact that, according to the existing legal system of Ukraine, the transfer of assets from a natural person to a legal person or vice versa is a fairly easy procedure. Secondly, many assets that are de jure -- belonging to a legal person -- are de facto in the physical administration. The bill lays down the rules under which the declared asset represents its balance sheet cost, on the basis of which the increase in such an asset will be determined in future tax periods. In order to prevent a deliberate excess of the balance sheet, special reporting rules are introduced as well as responsibility for such deliberate excesses. It is clear that the introduction of this bill will allow legalization of the capital that will return to Ukraine during the following year. But unlike the previous bill, this bill does not provide for the legalization of capital obtained by criminal means, except for the violation of two articles of the Criminal Code. It's "Tax evasion" and "Currency violation." If it is proved that these funds are obtained as bribes resulting from prostitution or robbery or murder, it is clear that such funds do not have any moral, ethical, or economic grounds for legalizing them. This bill is agreed with the government except, unfortunately, we have not agreed on the purpose of repealing the decree on the order of execution, the temporary order of settlement in foreign currency, and therefore paragraph 10.2., at the suggestion of the committee that there be no comments from the government, we propose to withdraw it. This bill doesn't need any extra costs, we think it will lead to increased investment in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u59	Question to the reporter, if there is, please sign in, please. Five minutes to ask. Put it on the board, please. Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear reporter, today I have the impression that the previous bill and the one you're presenting are not meant to protect people who, even we're going to talk about, the average wealth, but today we're talking about how to legalize people who have taken an illegal path. And that's exactly what your bill says. Whether this bill promotes discipline, raises the discipline of paying taxes, or raises the possibility that the immunity to tax default is not paid or paid, then waits for amnesty, and then continues. We can say that this year there are only 12 billion wetlands. 12 billion! And we know how this is done today, today, according to our legislation, a person who is interested in not paying taxes, running abroad, and then using this law to return. Thank you. Pay back.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u61	Thank you. A very interesting question, which was very much discussed in our committee, and in the Cabinet of Ministers, there were two round tables around the bill. In fact, a similar bill you can look at in the database, a bill was adopted by a previous call in the first reading, you can find it. There was a huge discussion about this in the hall, too. What are we talking about? Today is a totally paradoxical situation that we have created ourselves. Well, look, for some reason, the money's gone overseas. In violation of the legislation or without breaking the legislation, I tried to prove to you that they could be exported without violating the legislation. Now what's going on? Even if a person wants to transfer these funds to Ukraine and declare them to pay taxes, he can't do that because we have two responsibilities. The first responsibility for non-payment of taxes, including criminal charges, and the second responsibility for unlicensed opening of accounts or placing capital abroad is also criminal. So even if a person wants to pay taxes now, he can't, because he's immediately criminally responsible for opening accounts, you know. It's very important for us to increase the tax base by removing the liability, if I declare tax, I take off my monetary liability. And that, by the way, leads to an increase in budget income. The second question. There is a warning: What should we do? There were names on which criminal cases were being carried out. My bill contains article 8 called "Warning." It sounds like this, let me quote myself, because it's very important to understand the difference between this bill and the previous one. "8.2 Amnesty does not extend to the obligation to pay taxes, assemblies, compulsory payments, pennies, fines and administrative fines, as well as undeclared property that is abroad, when criminal proceedings have been initiated prior to the entry into force of this Law regarding the intentional avoidance of such taxes or currency controls on such property. If in the future the accused person is withdrawn or not supported by the court, such person has the right to exercise the right of a tax amnesty during the period defined by this Act." And the second. "The said amnesty also does not extend to incomes and property objects which are objects of recourse according to the provisions of the convention on the laundering of the search for the rest and confiscation of proceeds obtained by criminal means in the 1990s, ratified by the Supreme Council in 97. So we're closing down this legal path to legalizing the proceeds that we get by criminal means. This is the main difference between this bill and the previous one. But we're allowing this revenue to be declared in order to increase tax bases. And to make it clear how to count the increase in the income of these citizens or legal persons in the future. So from a tax point of view, this bill is a plus for our fiscal interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u62	Please, Chernobyl Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u63	I want to ask you this question: did you have anything to do with the concept and writing of the law and the VAT? Would you like to repent of Ukrainian entrepreneurship for writing the law and introducing it into Ukrainian practice? That's the first one. Secondly, would you please tell me, honestly, that in my presence on the committee, your law has been discussed or not? And the fourth, the third, will come back. I'm sure of your morality. It's just that you and I have completely different experiences and paths. I'm hoping for honest answers to your two questions, my first two questions. Please confirm my view that you are a decent person.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u64	Thank you. I regret that you have doubts about this. However, I can remind you that the added value tax, which has nothing to do with this consideration, was written by Michael Sergiyovich Gorbachev! Do you know what year? In '88. And after that, after that, really. In '97, I had to do that. I think it's a good idea to correct the inadequacies of the Cabinet of Ministers' decree regarding VAT. Unfortunately, there are many very straight lines that have been made in this tax and have destroyed it. Do you know why? Because not everyone wants to pay for it, but everyone wants to get the money out of the budget, right? So let's not have a double morality, let's not have a double morality. That's the first one. It's different. You know, we're different, I think, one thing. When I have to write, draft some drafts, I want to bring them into the hall and prove their need. Unfortunately, I remind you that after you gave your bill to the committee and didn't get any support, you were quick to get support from other committees. Unfortunately, or fortunately, our committee does not do what runs on various committees and seeks political support. We have a hall and a collective mind of Parliament, which will always make the right choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you, please sit down, Sergey Anatolyevich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. People’s deputies included Carmazin, Omelchenko, and Solomonine. People's deputy Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to the floor. Prepare Omelchenka Grigori Omelanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard two drafts and two drafters. One is an associate, the other is a professor at Harvard University. What do you want to do? And I'd like to make a few suggestions on two bills, especially the second. In Switzerland, our money lies below 2 percent in banks, in Ukraine under 10 they don't want to put it, they don't want to put it. I don't know. What's positive is Teryochin's project. First of all, it's in terms of legal, technical, more precise and from the point of view of the convention. I'd like you to be Sergey Anatoliyovich, and you've written about those baskets that were exported before 1997, before the convention was ratified. And before the convention's ratification, you can. Do you understand my point? So it's allowed that this money can go as planned under the project of Chernevski. So, in my opinion, it would have to be rational, very rational, to unify these two bills. And so to speak, as authors you will share with glory. Whether it's Chernewsky Terochin or Terjehyn-Chernowski - it doesn't matter. The main thing is that Teryochina's project has a warning provided for in article 8. Most importantly, it is a reference to international conventions, and especially in 1990 and 1997 it has been ratified. What's important is that they went through the expert board's conclusions. And it seems to me that this bill should be adopted on the basis that Terjehochin, including Chernewicki, should be taken together. And give them a minimum term. This law should be passed throughout the entire month. This needs to be done instantly in order to continue to feel the tax revenue from this, the flow of capital, but those capitals that were discussed with a warning here. And that's why I'm asking you to make this decision, on the first reading of these two bills, on the basis of the Teryochin bill. This is likely to be in line with the committee’s point of view as reported here by Burjak. That's exactly what it's going to be like. And it will contribute to Ukraine becoming a rich and rich nation. And then we're not to blame for violating the Convention on Legalization or Laundering. There will be no violation. Anything we can legalize by 1997. All we have to do since 1997 is to make substantial warnings regarding international society and, in general, our domestic legislation, which is later adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u67	Gregory Omelchenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the problem of combating the laundering of dirty money, the issue of legalization of shadow capital, the problem of the return of funds, in various ways exported outside Ukraine, has become so acute that it can be observed when representatives of the legal wing, the authors of two bills even entered into a heated discussion of a bill that has the same subject. That this is really a serious problem, I'm just a few digits away from you: every year, international organized crime groups in the world get at least $500 billion. According to President Kuchma of Ukraine himself, at the time of his leadership, the country was exported and hidden in offshore areas, foreign banks of at least $40 billion. The question is, Where was Kuchma at this time? According to President Kuchma himself, 55 percent of our economy is in the shadows. Experts estimate that at least 60, the figure is almost the same. With expert estimates, and this is confirmed by President Kuchma, we have 50 percent of our national currency outside banking control. How do we really make the costs, at least half of which are exported abroad, work back to our economy to enter into the form of investments, loans from other countries of the world and work for our economy, because this is related to the socio-economic programme, while working on the principle of the irreversibility of punishing the perpetrators of crime? Dear friends, believe that in nine years of work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I really know why, for what reasons, what the sums and practically whom, including in this room, and in the Bank’s, 11, the scheme for which the costs were exported abroad. There's an offer, and I'm not proposing. By the way, in the Supreme Council of the past assembly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered my similar bill and adopted it in the first reading. I have a proposal of a very specific nature. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Let's create a parliamentary commission, a group, a group where representatives from all factions, lawyers, economists, financiers, and prepare, taking into account these two bills, a bill that has been lost somewhere in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's last call, which has also been voted on in the first reading, and yet we will adopt this law, which lays down basic principles for the return of funds to Ukraine with those warnings that Sergio Teriochin has made. In my bill, with the implementation of these clauses, which are in the bill normal in terms of legality, morality, politics, I don't know what to say anymore, Leonid Chernewsky. And we have to adopt this law. You know what they say is not for the press, but it sounds public. I don't mind having half of the $500 billion U.S. dollars that have been obtained by criminal means into the Ukrainian economy for six months and then going out and going out. So let's make sure that the funds don't go back abroad from the Ukraine that we're getting, and let's make it a legitimate way to get these costs back from abroad. It can be done, well, it's wise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u69	Please, Solomatin Yuri Petrovich. The next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u70	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region I want to do a little trailer and think about how this is exactly what Lilia Grigorovich said today about the fact that we have our Ukrainian business elite. It is not clear whether these laws will amnesty our Ukrainian business elite, such as Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko, Alexander Leonidovich Kravczuk, Alexander Mikhailovich Volkov, Igor Mikhailovich Bakaj, and others. It seems that according to article 8 of the Law, proposed by Sergey Teryochini, and on the other hand, some warnings are being considered that, in some cases, when a criminal issue has been violated, this law will not work. But we do know our crazy Ukrainian femid, which will turn white for money and turn black into white for money. And conclusions. These bills provide for the transfer of ordinary thefts to the category of robberies in the law and for the opportunity to return with honor to the looted Ukrainian people. And the second conclusion. No amnesty should be made for these boys, they should repent to the people of Ukraine for what they have done. Return everything without any prior conditions. Perhaps our loving and heartwarming people will also forgive them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u71	Pavlovsky, please. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u72	Dear friends! I want to talk about procedure in part two. The point is, I want to remind our Committee on Banking and Banking as a member of the Regulatory Committee that all MPs have the same rights as the legislative initiative. It has been observed, therefore, that some committees have outlawed the laws of those national deputies who are not members of their committees and make their laws present here. That's why regulatory rules allow everything that's best in the law of Chernivets -- and there are positive moments -- to be taken. In the law, let's say Teryochin, because he reported that he was there, too. There's an Omelchenka bill, too. And so I propose that we take this rational all of these laws in order to really take the first step to solve this problem, we need to re-read and invite the authors of these bills to jointly draft a bill. First. The other one. We need to think today and in the Final Positions of this law to write out what laws regarding banks and banking, other laws need to be changed in order to at least stop or even, I would say, not encourage the transfer of capital abroad. Such mechanisms are and must be put in place. Because, on the one hand, we're left with the possibility that Teriochín even told the schematics here how it could be exported, and then we start thinking about how to drive. Moreover, we need -- so far, thank God that we haven't passed the law on the laundering of dirty money -- to look even more closely at it. Because there's such an interesting mechanism that's built -- favorable conditions to take money abroad and unfavourable conditions to bring it back, even in this last law. So developed countries are interested in exporting their money and giving them international standards. So we have to look until we've accepted it, so that this really is a scheme, that our money has to work for our production, so that we can start it. And really criminals have to answer, but we have to understand that governments are involved in all those capital-exporting crimes. Because if governments hadn't contributed, it wouldn't have been. And so there's a whole layer of bills that need to be worked out, and that's the whole direction. But this requires unifying all the authors, by no means rejecting the offer made by the Chernewsky, for there is much rational and unifying of them all. And that's why I suggest we re-read the first reading and jointly develop a single law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The vote will take place next week on Thursday. A closing word? Well, last of all, that's okay. It's final, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this question has caused such an emotional response. In fact, there's more, unfortunately, there's more emotion in both the bill and the other bill than there is in the economy. Right now, but I'd like to ask you to make that decision when voting. We can't re-read these bills because there will be a repeat of the situation that was in the past Parliament: because we had a discussion with the government's bill, which offered to tax it all on a large scale after legalization, we never finally adopted any bill. I would just like to remind you that this bill, written by a group of national MPs, has all the amnesty-related issues in 11 pages. Unfortunately, the previous bill is one and a half pages of written wish -- as I would like to see this amnesty. Clearly, I would call for this bill to be based on. And that's not the question-- which MP is giving or not giving. The other one. I absolutely agree with Mr. Omelchenk: we need to make a reconciliation group, because the financial committee itself cannot solve the criminal issue itself. In order to do so, it is necessary to include legal representatives in this working group of law enforcement committees, where, in the fight against crime, lawyers need to be included and processed. Therefore, a request from the committee to adopt the bill on the basis of the first reading, to establish a working group and to accept it as a whole by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Please turn on the Yavorowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u76	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! It is quite clear that this law has opponents and it is perfectly normal. I have a moral right to speak because I have nothing to return from abroad and I'm not defending anyone's interests. This law is very important. I'm very afraid that right now, because we have two bills and basically both good, each other have something positive, but they're going to bump into each other now, and we're not going to make any decisions again. That's why I would still ask you, perhaps even as an exception, considering that this is a very important bill that is needed today in the Ukrainian economy, I will not acquit you, maybe I would really ask the two authors to make some sort of agreement with each other and let's not go to the next Thursday, let's even later, but to put to the vote some kind of bill, or else we'll fail it again and fail for a very long time. I believe we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u77	You're hearing a lot of suggestions, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. It would be desirable for the authors to agree on a harmonized bill. Thank you. We are going to consider the following question: information on the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the use of illegal actions by members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sevkovic, which took place on 12 October of this year. It's proposed to give the minister 10 minutes of internal affairs, 10 minutes to ask. Do you agree with that? Please. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u78	I have an offer to give both the Minister and his deputy an opportunity to start a discussion or questions. I think it'll be more appropriate and logical.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u79	Please, Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u80	On 12 October, the distinguished Chairman of the People's Deputies addressed the Ukrainian People's Deputies, Vladimir Leonidovic, on duty in the sixth morning. In his statement, he reported that in the middle of the second night in the Pecher district on the street of Moscow near the restaurant of Egoist, his public registration car was blocked by people in civilian clothes. Without presentation, they began their detention using the force of a passenger of a Grigorishin, a citizen of the Russian Federation, the President of the ZAO “Energy Standard”. At the same time, two persons in civilian clothing applied physical force to him, despite his certificate and the requirement to cease arbitraryly. Addressing the Minister of the Interior, the Ukrainian national deputy Sivkovic requested immediate intervention and also demanded that individuals who violated his constitutional rights be established and punished. I was immediately instructed to conduct an official investigation into the merits of the application. This assignment is given to Onufreyev, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of State, who is responsible for internal security and investigation in accordance with his duties. The circumstances show that the arrest of Grigorishin was the reason for the incident. With regard to the detention of the latter, I can inform the people's deputies of Ukraine of the following. On 11 October, the Ministry of Internal Affairs reported that Grigorishin had firearms with him and that measures had been taken to establish his whereabouts and detention. The task force, I am speaking here of what is, the task force involved in the detention was dressed both in civilian clothing and embroidered in the form of a militia and a Gosavto inspection worker. Grigorishin had seized a 9-millimeter pistol of import, recognized by ballistic analysis as firearms, armored ammunition and four polyethylene packages of cocaine. On 12 October, the Department of Investigation of the Pechor Regional Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev initiated criminal proceedings on the basis of article 263 of Part One and article 309 of Part Two of Ukraine: illicit arms treatment and illicit production, manufacture, acquisition, storage, transport or transfer of narcotic drugs. Grigorisin was detained under article 115 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. On 14 October, criminal proceedings were taken by the investigative office of the head of the city of Kiev. During the search in the office of Grigorishin ZAO Group Energy Standard, 12g Hospital Street, 2 cocaine packages were further removed. On 15 October of this year, criminal proceedings were considered at the trial of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev, and Grigorishin was selected for detention. Regrettably, I must note that, as Minister, I have not been informed of the forthcoming detention of Grigorisin in connection with the information received on his possession of weapons. The decision to act in accordance with the situation in the verification of the information concerning Grigorishin and his detention was taken on the ground by the head of the operational team, Head of the GDRP Division. During the official investigation into the conflict between the Ukrainian national deputy Sivkovic Vladimir Leonidovic and militia officers, eyewitnesses of the events occurred, in particular the driver of the vehicle that Sivkovic arrived on, and a friend who was in the restaurant with Sivkovic and Grigorisin. They claim that the militia acted untactively, using physical force to pull out of the vehicle of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. At the same time, the militia involved in the detention of Grigorishin denied any wrongdoing against him. They explained that the people's deputy had left the car alone and had presented the police with a parliamentary certificate. In view of the fact that the current procedural rules do not allow the conduct of the performance review to resolve the existing contradictions, and this is possible only in the course of the investigation, the material collected by me is sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Yesterday, 17 October, the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine, on the statement of Sivkovic and the material before us, brought a criminal case under article 365 of the Second Criminal Code: “Exceeding power or authority over police officers”. A comprehensive and thorough investigation of this case will give legal assessment of the actions of police personnel in accordance with criminal law. I would like to stress that the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and I will personally facilitate its objective investigation, and that the perpetrators will be punished in accordance with existing legislation, in this case in connection with criminal law. I regret that today's debate at the session has been the occasion of an incident between the Ukrainian people's representative and the members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I apologize to the Ukrainian people's representative, Sivkovic Vladimir Leonidovic, for what has happened. A question has also been raised before the Attorney-General's Office regarding the seizure of a criminal case initiated by the detection of Grigorhosin's weapons and drugs from the production of the Ministry's investigator and the transfer of it for further investigation to the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the objectivity and full analysis of the information provided to us by Grigorishen. Grigorishen's statement that all this had been submitted to him during his detention would certainly be investigated as part of a criminal investigation. It seems premature to speak of the indisputability of his arguments in this regard. At the same time, there are many issues related to the professionalism of the police at the scene. It would certainly be better to detain Grigorisin, not in a situation where he was accompanied by a Ukrainian national deputy, but to seize arms and drugs directly at the place of detention. Regrettably, the circumstances in the detention of criminals often involve extreme situations, which force decisions to be made without delay, while the actions of police officers are not always ideal. Believe me, we have drawn conclusions from what has happened. And in our further work, we will take all necessary steps to prevent minor violations by police officers of the lack of or violation of the status of the People's MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u81	Please sign up for questions. Lighten up. The word is given to Dracchu, the next to be found. He's gone. Nadajko, please, Anatoly Mikhailovich, Next Sovkovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u82	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u83	Please turn on Simonenko's microphone, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u84	Dear Yuri Alexandrovich! It will not be a new position for you and an assessment of the action in this case, not on the particular fact that you report and try to apologize. The paradox of your situation is that you are standing on the floor of the Parliament, the supreme legislative body of Ukraine, and that the orderer is sitting in the room and controlling what you are talking about. That's what the paradox is. And we all know why this is happening. Because the police carry out orders to fight between individual ownership groups in Ukraine. And I'm even surprised how you, as Minister, had great hopes when you first went to the faction and said honestly, I will not allow a repetition of what Kravchenko did here." And you've become even tougher. As a result, people suffer, our potential is destroyed, financial flows are redistributed, and much more. After all, as Minister, are you going to be the Minister of the Interior of the people of Ukraine, not the clans and certain persons who are now sitting in the back row and watching what you're talking about? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. Dear Peter Nikolayevich! I have indicated here that the detention of Grigorishin was not in agreement with me. I'm going to finish the answer to your question. And in this regard, you asked me that the detention of Grigorishin is an order for the allocation of property. I don't have that information. But here I said in my statement that I was in detail, and during the time that had passed, that is, these three or four days, the official investigation was conducted, the materials were sent to the prosecutor's office for police officers, and criminal proceedings against police officers were already under way. As for the order, I have no such information. If they received such an order, they would comply with the law. And I said here in my statement that I would facilitate an objective investigation and a determination of the circumstances surrounding the detention of Grigorishin. Trust me, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u86	Soviet Volodymyr Leonidovich. Next Krilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Yuri Alexandrovich, you said you forgave the driver and the one who was still there for dinner. And the police all showed as one that it wasn't. A little bit wrong, because my security guard is the captain, and he gave all the evidence that it was all there was. Then the initial explanatory notes of the 6 guards of Grigorishin show that it was the same. I mean, all I care about is the fact of this attack. First question. Second question. This. You said the head of the UBPO department personally accepted his last name. Decision. What's his last name? School?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u88	No, not the school. Another head of the department who was there, say, arresting Grigorisin. Another head of the department.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u89	What's his last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u90	Not the school. As for your first question, I can answer that. I said, on the whole, the police. I didn't get to know him, I didn't know my report would be scheduled so fast today. An official investigation was conducted. I'm not ruling out that maybe your security guard was testifying. But once again, I am talking about the fact that, because of the contradictions, it is not really important that one employee says the other, criminal proceedings are initiated. An assessment of the actions of police officers will be made by the Prosecutor's Office within the framework of the criminal investigation. This evaluation will not be disciplinary, it will be a criminal law evaluation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u91	Kirilchuk Evgen Ivanovich. Next Bespaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u92	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Pavlovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u93	Please turn on the Pavlovsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u94	Yuri Alexanderovich, I have a question. I want to show you very briefly right now that the police are doing falsification, the floor. And I'm sure now -- I'm going to show you the facts -- that the police dropped the gun and the drugs of Grigorishin. Evidence. Now, I was in court today, and I was introduced to the case because I'm being accused of being there, because I was guilty of an action called "Get up, Ukraine!" September 16th. I looked at this thing, it's all floor! It turns out the stock was in the European square, and I'm being accused of being in Sofia and all that. Counterfeit documents. Moreover, even a record of clean detention was included in the matter. Clear! Write what you want. I mean, that's illiteracy. You're a good lawyer, and they're illiterate, and they can't even write a protocol. That's why it's the spread of the militia and you have to. What's more, I want to know whose order? In The Mirror of the Week a month ago, there was an article showing that Medvedchuk was interested in destroying Gregorian. Now you can see why everyone works like this. And you have to read the papers too, because sometimes they write the truth. Therefore, if you want to be a police force that protects the people, and according to article 3 of the Constitution, all organs, including the Ministry, should work for the people, not for the clans. So you really need to think about it, and that's all, see how beautifully the documents are faked? So it's not this version that we need to confirm that drugs, but that version that we're dealing with. Now, who gave it up, and why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u95	Thank you. I said in my statement that, given that Grigorishin claims that weapons and drugs have been planted, I do not deny the fact that he claims and says that his arguments will be investigated in the criminal investigation. I can't make a decision right now. He's been arrested by the court and told that weapons and drugs have been dropped, that the court's decision to cancel, that he should be released from custody, I can't. I don't have those procedural rights. At the same time, I reiterate that the arguments of Grigorishin will be examined in the most detail and thorough manner during the criminal investigation. In order to remove questions about police officers or vice versa, to make them appear in the manner Grigorishin puts them, the criminal case will be referred today to the Attorney-General's Office for the purpose of objectivity of the investigation. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u96	Please, Bespaly Boris Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u97	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." That's my first question. Is there a version here, correct it, or do you confirm that the police are not serving the law and the people as individuals working temporarily on Bank Street? And then I'd like you to pass on Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u98	Please turn on Chubarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u99	I can't confirm this version coming from the hall about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u100	Wait a minute, Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u101	I'm glad we're doing some errands. In any case, the police act.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u102	Yuri Alexanderovich, please wait. Chubarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u103	Thank you very much. Dear Yuri Alexanderovich. What happened to National Deputy Sevkovic would never have happened if the police had not used such illegal methods to Ukrainian citizens at all. Dropping drugs, weapons, illegal detention, beating up evidence is already a system in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Well, at least read the papers! The other day, he was in Facts, where a local drug dealer was dumping kids. For three years now, I have been unable to convict several militiamen who took a peasant from the Jankoi City Department, beat them illegally, and they are disabled. So it's all in your system. But the question is, you know all about it, the question is different. After all, you didn't order detention, including this attitude towards Deputy Sevkovich, but tell me, who? And you know who. Tell us who. And why didn't you bring him into this room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u104	I understand that the question -- here I'll start from the end -- is probably Deputy Secretary Gigi. I can tell you, and Giga was questioned about this, and he also had no information that Grigorishin had a weapon. This is a very rare situation: who has these weapons. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, I'm not talking about Grigorisin, I'm talking about guns. We only removed 5,000 firearms this year, including rifles, grenade launchers and so on. Today, we took out, say, grenades, explosives, rifles, and even rocket launchers. But the fact that they're removing this jet machine, I don't need to know and I don't need to know Giga about it. And it's not necessarily Giga who needs to know, Giga says he didn't know about this information, he didn't give the teams any. This situation, I repeat, has been managed by the head of the UBPO Division, who has received and implemented this information. We get 5,000 information on crimes in the course of the day. Neither Jiga nor the Minister can take them into control and provide, they say, ideal verification, perfect detention, perfect investigation. This is the case with regard to this situation. As a general rule, police officers. Yeah, I don't deny it. Yes, there are facts, there are facts of forgery, that are, but what is written in the newspapers, that's what Peter Nikolaevich has said here, not always right, not always right. All the facts that we are becoming aware of are subject to official investigation and the perpetrators are subject to strict disciplinary action. And where there are signs of a crime, we have not hidden any material from the Public Prosecutor's Office, we send it to the Public Prosecutor's Office to file a criminal case and bring the perpetrators to justice. This is the tension that is being created, and especially in recent times with regard to police officers in the media, believe me, it is less than half-way back, more than half unobjective and has no soil. If there are specific facts, I am prepared to take them into account, carry out checks and report them to you on specific facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u105	Yuri Alexandrovich, time's up. Have a seat, please. Sit down, Yuri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, let us consult. Do we need to listen to the deputy secretary on this issue as a matter of determination? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u106	Okay. Please invite Deputy Secretary Jigu Mikol Vasilovich. We are acting by a decree voted by the national MPs. It's open, Mikola Vasilovich, you can pass. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u107	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished audiences, something to add to what the minister of the interior said from this high rostrum, I cannot, because he said it quite largely and completely. I'm the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u108	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u109	I'm the only one who, like the leader of the U.B.I., would like to offer my apologies to the national deputy, Vladimir Leonidovich Sevkovic, for the covert incident that took place with him. I want to assure the People's Deputies, the Supreme Council, that I will do whatever it takes to ensure that such cases do not recur in the activities of AIDS. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u110	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Lighten up. Trelyakow, please, Oleg Alexiyovich. Next up is Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u111	May I give the floor to the People's Deputy Catherinechuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u112	? Please include the word ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a unique opportunity to ask those questions that we already have for having so little experience with the law enforcement agencies of Ukraine. I have a question for you: tell me, what standards are regulated on the faces of your employees? Why are there no wedding rings on the uniforms of those who perform special tasks or operational tasks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u113	Thank you. And I say, if this is about a particular situation that is being discussed here today, the people of the U.B.P. were maskless and in uniform that said, "Military."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u114	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, next Catholic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u115	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear reporter, please tell me from this rostrum you swore an oath that the body was wintering, which was found in Tarosha, two years or spring, that it was not Gongadze. Today, the D.A. confirms that it's Gongadze's body. You have proved that the members of the Supreme Council have not been beaten, namely, Jeliaškević, me, Rudkowski, Grzezhev. Today we all confirm what was happening, and I think you remember our meeting at the hospital. Do you think it's already going as a system? And what are you going to do to change this system? And two, I'd like to find out. Tell me, what has been done to you today regarding the weaponry you found in front of 16 numbers? Where is she, this weapon? And where are the people you arrested? How was the sanctions applied accordingly, where the appropriate warehouses were divided? And finally, the last. 24 numbers you found here, on the Schovkovsky, a whole set of weapons: grenades, circumcisions. You wrote them down for those people who were in the tent town, including me. I'd like to see them because I've never seen a bomb before in my life. Why don't you show me what it is? And so that we can, after all, see the truth of the information you are speaking. Because you're saying one thing today, and there's actually another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u116	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u117	Dear Valentina Petrovna, as far as I'm concerned about finding the body of Gongadze. I was giving an explanation to the special commission of inquiry, and then I said that at the time the experts had informed me. I'm not an expert on this. Second, with regard to weapons removed in one case and another, it is linked as material evidence to criminal cases in which the investigation is conducted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u118	Kaletnik Grigory Mikolaiovich. Matthew's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u119	I thank you for your word. I think I've been signing up, really, I've wanted to talk to the Minister of Internal Affairs. But, Mikola Vasilovich, I want to tell you and you to some extent that we really have different thoughts here today. And rightly said, speaking, Peter Mikolaiovich, some of the clans are defending their interests, others are defending their interests. I would like to ask the only of you today that the police really do not serve the clans, but that they do faithfully and conscientiously the responsibilities given to you by law, and you have honestly, frankly, always reported in the Supreme Council about the situations that there are. Because we have weapons, drugs, and the crime scene, especially business-enhancing. And it's no wonder that the police have to take strict measures. And we must thank you for your hardness.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u120	Please ask Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u122	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u123	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The distinguished Nikolai Vasiljevic, of course, raises several questions about the Minister's information and developments in this regard. I have no doubt that the police are on a criminal path today to order certain commercial structures. And I reiterate that you were not there, what the Minister said: the Ministry is now working on certain groups that have taken over the energy market. And I'm afraid there's a mob in this case, too. But questions to you. If there is a wrongful act against the People's Deputy Sivkovic, is it not possible that the illiterate officers who carried out the order of your or other heads of the Ministry have not been screened in an operational manner to remove all charges, let us say, from the Ministry. If this operational survey was conducted, show me, and then there are no questions. Second. The Minister stated that this was a regular case. Five thousand reports a day are about weapons. If this is a regular case, please explain to me why this case was dealt with at the level of the Ministry's leadership. And was there an operational survey when you were doing such a large-scale operation?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear Peter Nikolayevich! I'd like to tell you that the police have never worked on anyone's orders. [[B in m in s a l in]] With regard to the shootings and the original materials of the case, this is the investigator's case. He thinks the investigator's needed, he'll give us the records and everything that's happened. Why was the Ministry of Internal Affairs doing this? Because UBOP is not a management body, UBOP is a practical body. He's just like the militia department, like all other practical units, doing black work, and when he gets direct information, he does it directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u125	Please, Mikola Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! I'll say, Mikola Vasilovich, answer the questions. What are you yelling about? Answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u126	The shot's been taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u127	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u128	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. Mr. Deputy, I understand that you apologized on behalf of the U.B.O., you apologized to the National MP for the fact that the practice of U.B.S.O. is to drop weapons on all those who need to be put down for playing. One of them was once Leonid Kovalchuk, the Supreme Court fully acquitted him, and you know that the weapon was dropped. One of these is my assistant in Poltavščina, deputy head of our party Sergey Kuzovko, who was also gunned down by the Polish leader of UBZ, who was brought from Kremenchug, where he was marked by a successful weapon drop. And now it's the same situation and it's practical. I just wanted to remind you that, you know, I spent some time in the detention facility, thanking both your participation and your employees. I have to say, there are people with guns down there, criminals, I haven't met. There was very, very little.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u129	Please make up your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u130	I want to ask if there's that logical line of evidence that the police are working on the order? And do you know of cases of weapons being dropped for political reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u131	I've already answered once. Militia doesn't work on orders. I don't know how to drop a weapon. And today, there are 900 people being punished for the murder of a manslayer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u132	Yes, please. Did you complete your answer? Time is up for answers. Thank you. What, what? Dear colleagues, is there still a need? Just a minute. Dear colleagues! I mean, we've been looking at this for 40 minutes. Five minutes left. Please, please, don't scream! We have a lot of democracy here, so what are you yelling at? Please have five more minutes to answer the questions. Yavorowski, please. Dear colleagues! We have a list, I'm going straight to the list, and please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u133	Dear reporter, I have to tell you, I'm afraid to sit in this room when we have such a police force. I'd be embarrassed if I were you. That's why I have these questions for you. Three. First. Is there any difference between human honor and the honor of a militia officer? Second question. Can't you not make such fatal mistakes, at least bring to the militia a list of vice presidents so that they don't get beat. Let's get hit. But they were no longer touched. And my third question. Change this gun at last, which you're dropping on the 5th or 6th time. That's where the fingertips are! Well, buy a new gun, save it and drop it on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u134	I want to tell you that the police are the same citizens, and they are no different from the average citizen. And they're all on their own. As far as the list of deputies is concerned. Presidential deputies, I don't know them. I don't know such deputies. For me, MPs are all the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u135	National MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u136	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to address the minister first. Yuri Aleksandrovitch means that the police should treat both the President and the MPs the same way as the common people. But to this day, the police are acting against the MPs, protecting the President. Militia is in Kiev while there are no local militias in the area? I had a specific incident in Chernigov on September 30. I haven't received an answer from you yet. Already in the security zone, your lieutenant general was in charge of the President's protection when he arrived in Chernigov, three re-dressed militia officers attacked, seized the ID, ripped his arm apart, got no answer. I'm talking to your lieutenant general, and he says I don't have time for people to attack. I need to start protecting not only the MPs but also the common people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u137	Ask me a question, please, Mikola Rudzkowski. I ask the Minister in writing, if there is no answer, to provide a written reply through the Supreme Council to inform the People's Deputy Rudzkowski. Please ask questions. Puzakov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u138	The snail, the Communist faction. Nikolai Vasilevich, please tell me I'm here, Nikolai Vasilevich, I'm here. Me and Kirovograd, you were in Kirovograd, too. Well, that's my question. I worked as factory manager, you know, Taratuta. When there's a robbery at the factory, and we're talking to the militia, they tell us there's no gas to leave immediately, no people to deal with it quickly, I mean stealing. And now that action has begun, "Get up, Ukraine!" Police officers, in particular in the Kirovograd region, also find petrol and “walk us” in coffeehouses. You know, before the 16th number, you were escorted to the Chercas region. The police themselves poured buckets of police cars into buses where people went to the action, bars of metal pre-cooked, food. You know that because you've talked about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u139	Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u140	So why is it that the police don't find the facts that happen at the company, and it doesn't take time to go out, check the gas, and find the gas, and that's where it all comes in?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u141	Clearly, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u142	Unfortunately, I do not know of such facts as to prevent the police from driving. That doesn't apply. I've got a few other ways to work, that's not a question for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u144	Nor do I deal with the logistics of the police, but there is a special deputy to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, let's demonstrate civilization. Dear colleagues, you and all of us, Parliament, must be above all that and demonstrate our position. You can say anything calmly, just calmly. Please, I'm asking National Deputy Sovkovic, you had a question -- and that's it, we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u146	Mikola Vasilovich, please tell me where was your first deputy on Friday?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u147	My first deputy was in Italy on Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u148	Very good. Now, tell me why you lied to the minister, and today you're lying to the entire Supreme Council, who's running the operation. Who sent "Sokil"? The Falcon has the right to send only you and your first vice. A man who can lie from the rostrum of the Supreme Council and lie to the minister can be a deputy secretary of state? The Falcon was yours, not yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u149	The question is understandable. Please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u150	The Falcon can be sent not only by the chief of UBZ and the first, but also by the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u151	Thank you. Last question from the head of the Carmazin commission. Please. Dear colleagues, calm down, please! Please! Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u152	Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine. Mr. Secretary and distinguished deputies, I have a question for both of you. You're out on the highest court today. At least you realize that on October 12, the Pecher Court handed down this ruling, I read: "Grigorishin 12.10 at 0.15, while on the street of Moscow, 44/2, expressed an uncensored swearing, did not respond, did not respond, did not go into the service car, refused, resisted with his hands and feet, grabbed on a uniform of clothing, thus committing malicious disobedience to the legitimate demands of militia personnel. Grigorishin did not confess his guilt and explained that he was not speaking, was in the car of a national MP, but refused to leave it, other actions outlined in the protocol did not. I've decided to draw Gregory to the administration's responsibility and in fines of 170 dollars." And by this decree, you, the honourable heads of the Ministry, have supported a man, a citizen -- it doesn't matter: Russia, France, has kept a man of the age!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u153	Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u154	No, no, I don't understand. Now, half a second, I'm sorry. And then there's the rest. And today you answer, don't talk about it. 30 people were thrown into the Shevchenkov court in masks, and you were asked: On what law did they put on the mask of 30 men in armor? At 10: 30 a.m. in the morning, I asked Giga to report to the convoy commander. Gangsters, I emphasize, bandits, because they don't wear masks! By the end of the day, no one had been contacted. Tell me, please, do you realize that when you go to Parliament here, you have to at least make a statement that you are now in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u155	Please answer the questions. Thank you. Well, do you have anything to answer for that? None. That's it, thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, let's work this out. We have a commission of inquiry. Please, one minute. Yes, please. Sowkovich. I say again, my fellow Members, if the House votes to continue this question, I will put it to a vote, we will continue it as long as you do. I'm asking you again, let's not convert. Now I'm going to ask you a question for a vote. You stand by and we'll talk as long as it takes. Please, Sovkovich. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, let's make a deal, I'll make a statement now, and we're not going to be talking about this anymore today. Why? Because I listened very carefully to the minister today. The minister really didn't know, because I actually picked him up from bed at night. And then I made it clear -- that's how it was. But the minister said very clearly today, and I asked how the family of the head of the department was. Before long, I asked him how the family was headed by the department. Because Sokol can only send Giga or his prisoners. The minister said he was the head of the department. Who prepared the minister today, please tell me? Giga. So Giga lied to the minister, lied to all of us. That's the first question. The second question. Who gave the command to the head of Titan City who could give such a command to the head of Titan City to come to the scene and cancel the work of the guards? Who? Who can give the command to the head of Titan City, please? Deputy Minister. Am I right, Yuri Alexanderovich? That's right. Now tell me, I'm right about insisting that Giga retire immediately, aren't you? I thank you and I ask you not to raise that question again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, we discussed the report, more faithfully, we heard the report, we heard the answers. Time's up. If the committees and the commission of inquiry prepare the appropriate decisions, we will consider them and make them. Dear colleagues, and we will be determined about them. I suggest we don't take breaks now, continue our work so that we can finish according to our schedule. For your consideration. Please turn on the microphone after the Lucenka procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u158	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we understand perfectly that your task, including protecting the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is to leave the Presidential Palace. But this was the minister's report, and our faction insists on discussing the Secretary of State's and Deputy Secretary's report, which is lying to all the people and to us people's deputies. We insist on discussing it. We've officially applied for the faction. It's our right, which you can't undo in your own words.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, don't provoke me to answer any questions, I have the same success, my dear colleague, I can tell you that you're a member of the Cabinet of Ministers and you have to protect the minister. And I'm asking you to stop this act, I'm not responding to it, it's not getting me. Dear colleagues, I was absent when the issue began. You, an honorary colleague, know the procedure, you could make suggestions, set aside how much time. Don't do it anarchy, by the way, it won't work. I'm protecting the People's Deputy. If I hadn't protected the people's MP, this question would not have been brought to Parliament today. And you understand that very well, too. We talked about it. The investigation committee's working. What else do you want? Are you interested in the process or in the result? I'm interested in the result. Let's go to. We had to vote. We spent 45 minutes. Calm down! Dear colleagues, according to your insistence. One minute, calm down! I ask questions as you insist. I'm telling you again. I urge you to vote on the proposal to extend the discussion by 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you again. You insist on a discussion, I'm asking a question about a vote. You've spent 45 minutes. I'll bet you a vote, please. "To" - 171. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Law on State Control of International Transfers of Goods of Military Purpose and Double Use. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u160	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are presented with a draft Ukrainian Law on the International Transfer of Military Assignment Goods and the Double Use of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This law regulates activities related to State control over international transfers of military supplies and dual use to ensure the protection of Ukraine’s national interests, its compliance with international obligations regarding the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, missile weapons and their delivery, the restrictions on the transfer of conventional weapons, and measures to prevent the use of the specified goods for terrorist and other illegal purposes. Most developed countries of the world have control over international transfers and the subsequent use of military supplies and dual-use items that can be used for weapons of mass destruction are nuclear, chemical, biological, and other extremely dangerous weapons and missile means of delivery adopted as a national non-proliferation policy. In world practice, such systems are being reversed by government export control systems, the reduced sled name of such systems. Since independence, Ukraine has consistently taken steps to rebuild the state export control system and its components. Some 30 legal acts have been adopted since 1993 alone. Including the 8 decrees of the President of Ukraine and 22 decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Through the successive efforts of the State during this period, Ukraine has ratified nonproliferation treaties, the Chemical Weapons Convention, the Biological and Toxic Weapons Convention, and a host of other international instruments on the subject. During the same period, thanks to the adoption of an appropriate legal base, Ukraine became a member of such major international non-proliferation organizations as the Vasinar Accord, created by 33 countries of the world in 1996 and founded by Ukraine. The purpose of this arrangement is to ensure coordinated efforts to control international transfers of military supplies and dual use related to them. A group of nuclear suppliers and Zangare’s committee, which participates in 42 and 29 countries respectively, in which Ukraine gained its membership in 1996. The purpose of these regimes is to ensure that goods that can be used to create nuclear weapons are controlled. The missile technology control regime, which has 32 leading countries in the world and membership in which Ukraine acquired it in 1998. The purpose of this regime is to ensure that goods used are controlled or can be used to create rocket weapons. Ukraine’s active activity in the listed international organizations has allowed for a qualitatively new level of interaction with leading countries in a part of the mutual transfers of so - called sensitive goods. In such areas as nuclear power, commercial space services, complex chemical and machine manufacturing, and so forth. The draft law proposed for your consideration combines all existing legal acts in the field of export control and the experience gained in their practical application into a single system and allows national manufacturers to have clear and clear rules and procedures for State control. The law provides for the legislative establishment of such important principles of State export control policy as the priority of national security interests, the obligation to fulfil international obligations in the area of non-proliferation, the harmonization of State control rules with international law and practice, cooperation with international organizations and foreign states with a view to strengthening international security and stability. The basic provisions of the law provide for the definition of basic terms that correspond to the time-consuming acceptance and framework of the European Community or recommended for the introduction into national legislation of international organizations of which Ukraine is a member; the definition of the legal basis of State export control, the basic principles of State policy in this field and the powers of public authorities; the definition of the basic provisions of the organization and the exercise of control, as well as the principles of the application of such control procedures. In addition, the project sets out a list of export-control legislation violations and identifies the responsibility for such violations as had not been done before. The draft law was discussed last September at an international round table with the participation of Ukrainian national deputies, as well as representatives from Canada, Norway, Poland, Germany, and the United Kingdom. The meeting highly appreciated Ukraine’s desire to create a law on the control of such transfers and was given a positive assessment. The draft law was also discussed at a joint meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on National Security and Defence and the working group "Ukraine-NATO", which was attended by the Ukrainian National Deputies, experts from the leading NATO countries and the executive authorities of Ukraine and where the draft law also received a positive assessment. The adoption of the Act does not require additional public budget costs and will allow for a clear and comprehensive export control base that will help to maintain its position both by business entities and by government authorities. This will ensure Ukraine’s compliance with its international obligations and ensure that there are no restrictions on the access of domestic producers to new technologies and controlled goods markets, with a positive impact on external economic activity. Dear National Deputies! Taking into account the relevance of this law. Please welcome your support for the adoption of the proposed draft Ukrainian Law on State Control of International Transfers of Military Assignment and Use of Goods, in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Light up on the board. Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please. Five minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u162	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Baraniwski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u163	National MP Baranowski, POW faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u164	Thank you. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, please tell us what is not enough today to allow for, say, our military assets to be stretched clean? Let me give you one last example. He was already in Parliament when Il-18, 25,000. The resource for the raid was 4,000. And it was sold for $140,000. Money from the Ministry of Defense in Russia when our companies paid a million for it. Was there not enough control to prevent it? That's one thing. And the second. Why is it that the law you are proposing does not provide for any responsibility just for your getting the wrong kind of action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u165	I'm answering the first question about stretching, like stretching. I say that this law is not aimed at any internal procedure, because it is an international obligation of Ukraine, and this control is linked to the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including control of international transfers of military supplies, but in part with regard to their use by other countries and the impact of such weapons on international stability and security. The second question. Why the plane was valued at 400,000 or maybe sold for a million dollars. For 140. I'm telling you, there's a decree issued by the Cabinet of Ministers in 1999, as far as I can remember. Decree No. 759, which defines the father's axis of cost of military equipment, after which it is passed on to implementation. This value is determined by the Ministry of Defense. After that, commercial organizations with appropriate powers have the right to transfer such property, but at a price not below the price determined by the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u166	Please, National Deputy Manchulenko. Yuri Solomatin, you're giving up your question, aren't you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u167	I'm sorry. The second question that was asked, I apologize, is the responsibility. We worked on a committee on national defence and security. And I understand that there will be a second reading of this law. We'll be happy to cooperate, and we've made any suggestions you make, if that was a pleasure of this law. No questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u168	Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u169	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter, regarding the IL-18-D aircraft, it was actually sold for $140,000 and made by companies progress. You probably know this structure and so on. But there's a problem here, and we're going to bring this problem to a logical conclusion and, accordingly, even, I think, through the budget, we're going to set appropriate rules for the implementation of surplus property by the Ministry of Defence so that, in fact, such disadvantages don't arise anymore. With regard to the bill, my dear colleagues, I believe that we are very late with this bill. And I also asked these questions at our committee meeting when the honourable Alexander Mikolaiovich reported why this bill had been drafted so late, because until now all of these problems had been regulated by regulations, i.e. mainly by decrees of the President of Ukraine. Thus, this legislative issue has not been properly settled. Why have they been drafting this bill for so long? And for the second reading there are some questions, I think we're all setting them up on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u170	This is a complex issue because this sector, this sphere of activity, the sphere of activity of the state, was not at all in the former Soviet Union, nor in the Soviet Union, nor in the time of independence of the state of this sphere of activity. We have virtually no professionals in this direction. This area developed in other countries of the world, beginning there from the '85s to '87s, '90s. It's a whole new sphere, it's an area where military interests, international interests, international commitment, political interests and a lot more. So before offering any clear, clear and clear legislative act to your consideration, the government had to release a series of relevant sub-legals, as you said, acts or simply decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers or other acts by which to conduct a test: this, indeed, or indeed not, is going to affect the economy of the state, as it will affect, what effect this will have on international relations and so on. So this experience, really, at this time, I think there is in Ukraine. And we are introducing a well-founded law that is positively perceived by the international community. We have repeatedly applied this law to international organizations, including in some lands, and it has received a positive assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u171	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u172	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich, General.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u173	Anatoly Domansky, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u174	I think we're looking at a very interesting law today. But why don't we say that in 10 years of our independence, the State has not bought for the army any shells, no ammunition, no aircraft, no artillery installations. And that's what they're still putting on soldiers today with Soviet boots. But here's the question. Today, there are a large number of military cities in the Armed Forces, where funds and personnel are needed. There are no military forces, they are disbanded. What do you think in this law to pass on, to rid them of this burden for the Armed Forces, anything provided for in this law, excess property?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u175	Thank you. I want to draw your attention to the title of this bill, its introductory part. It's an international transfer of goods. And that is our international commitment and national security. This has nothing to do with the property of the Armed Forces, which is immobile.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u176	Thank you. Your time is up, Alexander Mikolayovich. Thank you. There is a need for the committee to report to us. Vladimir Leonidovich Sovkovic, is there a need? None. From the committee on this subject, you're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill had to be passed, I think, at least, they said it right 10 years ago. And then Ukraine wouldn't have had a variety of problems with numerous charges of selling arms, various commissions that are now coming today, maybe not having a problem with the earrings and everything else. During the discussion of the bill, a number of comments and suggestions were made at the committee’s meeting. The project does not, in particular, define a fixed deadline for issuing permits. After preparing the bill for second reading, these provisions will need to be written, binding specific terms according to the category of goods, region, and type of transfer. This will no doubt allow our exporters to feel more confident about the conditions of fierce competition in the arms markets. The law should also be supplemented by provisions concerning the procedure for the identification of controlled goods, in order to complement Article 12 with the text of the following: "Identification of goods, as well as the implementation of all necessary measures related to obtaining permits for international transfers of such goods or the conclusions for their removal from Ukraine. documents are the responsibility of the subject of entrepreneurship. The procedure for granting such powers shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers." Third. Needs to be more specific about the term "double assignment goods." I was very keen on the National Security and Defence Committee when we discussed it, because in the language in which the Cabinet of Ministers now has a dual-purpose item can be a nice thing, that is, there could be a motorcycle on which machine gun handles can be loaded, and there could be "Giggles" anything, there could be a shovel, there could be a double-deal. So we have to make it clear what "double-dealing goods" is. Otherwise, if we adopt a law without clear language, all business can be driven into an expert control committee and obtained permits. Four. It is appropriate to supplement Article 14 with the position on the certification of the executive authorities on the expert control of the systems of internal, formed and expert control of business entities. After denouncing the order of such certification of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This will provide some incentive for international broadcasters by simplifying the procedure for issuing permits. And it's also very important. Because today, in view of the lack of law, the procedure to be followed in the transfer of goods is quite cumbersome. The Cabinet of Ministers issued a lot of different normative documents, then a system was created, then an Export Control Committee was set up at the National Security Council, and they were all issuing documents that needed to be executed in order to do so. I believe that the adoption of such a law will allow for the streamlining of all these documents and a sufficient simplification of the procedure for passing them. On behalf of the committee, we ask that the bill be adopted on a basis by entrusting the National Security and Defence Committee with the task of processing it for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, is there a question for our co-conspirator? Please sign in if there is. Please point it on the board. People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear Mr. Sovkovic, in your profile committee, I understand that there may be no constant control over that weapon, not even the mass destruction that is being carried out there. And it's no longer a secret that, for example, nuclear warheads sold by commercial structures abroad and $3 billion disappeared like sand into water, and they have to be exchanged for fuel for nuclear reactors. Even the President himself asked this question: Where is the money? Where's the money for the Rings, where the money is 32 billion for another weapon? Are you on the profile committee even asking those questions to those who sell these weapons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u180	Thank you. A law enforcement commission has recently been set up. Sadly, she was still fully employed. I'm initiating her work today and the head of this commission of inquiry has just begun to recruit consultants. A professional committee can't raise questions that were eight years ago. That is, we can pick them up so that it doesn't happen again, but especially today to do a test of how nuclear warheads were transmitted, I know what you're talking about. It's when it was signed between Kravczuk and Yeltsin, isn't it? Is that what you're talking about? I've been doing this, I've been reading the National Security Council report, I've been reading the report of the Commission on Accounting, and I can't see. Honestly, I don't see any reason for today to report to my committee head, to take him back to the committee. To do one more test of the gun trade commission -- I agree, we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u181	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u182	Julia Timoshenko's block. Dear Mr. Sovkovic, please tell me if you have noticed in the proposed bill on too much hypertrophied responsibility for Ukraine for the final use of imported from Ukraine of this product, both military and dual use. Because, in my opinion, this might limit our export possibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u183	Stepan Ilkovich, I want to tell you that there is nothing hypertrophy in the bill. Let me explain why. Because it's a hypertrophy fear today that's a lot of leaders in this industry. And there are a lot of politicians who are starting to politicize this industry very much. This bill makes it very clear that if an innuendo is presented, no one has the right to prohibit the placing of produce there. [[It's commercial, and the bill says "end-user certificate"]] The only thing we should not do is break international agreements and everything. And that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u184	Thank you. I've got a complete list, I'm looking. Thank you. And we need to sign up, Mikolo. Please. But next time, please, next time let's follow the rules. Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u185	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We all know that weapons are being sold from Ukraine for hundreds of millions of dollars and money is not coming into the budget. I want to ask you, will the adoption of this law make it impossible to sell arms and, well, hide these funds on offshore firms? Will these funds come into the budget from the arms trade? The question is not only that arms sales lead to the killing of innocent people but also to the damage to Ukraine’s security and our budget. And the second question is, can the investigating commission investigate arms trade until the President signs the Special Investigation Commissions Act so that the commission has proper powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u186	First. This law controls the arms trade and the production of military use. When he does a clear check and this law shows that he has to pass all the information on to the Ministry of Finance. Once he's at the Ministry of Finance, he's handing over the information and the Minieconomics, so this information goes to the authorities that have to control this money. That's the first one. The other one. Weapons are actually sold for hundreds of millions of dollars, but these costs are now coming into special accounts, including the Ministry of Defense. And this year, 939 million dollars are planned, this is a special fund that the Ministry of Defense actually lives on, because the Treasury doesn't fund it. If it wasn't for this special op. The second question -- how it's distributed -- is to the Minister of Defense and to the Ministry of Finance, not to me. What about your second question? Today, I'm still telling you, we don't need to ask the President for a ruling in order for the investigating commission to start testing those institutions that are involved in the arms trade. This requires that the commission of inquiry meet at least once. Sadly, she has not met this day. That's what I'm telling you. And today I'm initiating it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! A replica? Please, Gmira. Now Solomon will speak, then the Cloud, then the Pavlovsky. Please, Gmira, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u188	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, you have said very well that we must do well today and implement our programme. However, the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in my view, are preventing members from performing their duties. Here I am during the working hours, while we are having a session, an investigator named Gerbicki invites me to the Attorney-General's Office to report on the seizure of the Presidential Palace. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we're friends unfortunately, you were there too. And from the point of view of power, you're more guilty, because I was only sitting in the hall where Medvedchuk invited us, and you went out to call the President, that is, to expand the seizure zone, so to speak. They'll call you tomorrow. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I think it is necessary to explain to the Attorney-General that the agendas at work are 344 articles, “Prohibiting a political actor in the exercise of his authority”. I respect the Attorney General's Office, but I have much more respect for the people who sent me here to work. Let's find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u189	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that I have asked the Attorney-General with an offer: if they have any questions to the National Deputy, then I should address the Head of the Supreme Council, and I, as your authorized representative, will stand on the question that the members of the Supreme Council should work. [[Applause]] The word is given by the national deputy Solomonine. To discuss the draft of this law, prepare for the people’s representative of the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u190	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! My presentation touches on the introduction by some states of double standards for military dual-use technologies. We know that Ukraine has remained, practically, disarmed, just like other states in the post-Radians, and the United States is increasing its military presence and military power in all parts of the world. It is known that in the late 1970s, U.S.A. and U.S.S.S.R. came up with an agreement that prohibited geophysical development for military use. But to this day these works continue. That's the design, the idea of many scientists and experts is a special American program called Harp." - an active high-frequency North Flash Research program, Russian and Ukrainian, short for Harp. A few words about geophysical weapons. The owners of these weapons are theoretically able to program floods, typhoons and death attacks, even earthquakes in any region of the planet Earth, or completely paralyze civil and military electronic management systems, including any country-wide communication, actively even affecting the psyche of entire peoples. The main problem, however, is that neither American policies nor the entire world community knows if such weapons can be used fully to stop their operation, namely, the disastrous natural and social processes it causes. The emitters that are built under the special program Harp already exist are located in Norway, a small town. And Alaska, military base. After the introduction of the third, most powerful emitter in Greenland, geophysical weapons will be able to exert their influence over all of Eurasia from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Therefore, it was not by chance that the State of the Russian Federation on the four committees considered the global danger of Harp for almost a year and prepared an appeal to the President of the Russian Federation Putin, to the UN and other international organizations proposing an international ban on the Harp trials. Even these issues were not only discussed but also voted in the State Duma of Russia. In view of what has been said, I would consider it necessary, Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to take a thorough look at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the proper state structures of potential danger for Ukraine to be tested or deliberately applied by other states. To do that, I think, and I put it in an information note in your name, we need appropriate institutions, as a minimum, to collect and generalize all available information on this subject and to determine how the State of Ukraine feels about such a global danger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u191	Stepan Cloud, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u192	Cloud, block of Julia Timoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor. The need for a law that regulates all legal aspects of transfer, or export-import, arms and dual-use techniques, has long grown. And there must be such a law as to systematize all legislative acts, laws of Ukraine, regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, decrees of the President and other documents. But it must be remembered that the law should promote the national interests of Ukraine and protect them. This law makes a declaration about it, but unlike declarations, I see contradictions and direction in the opposite. This law feels a fear of the responsibility of certain officials for certain political and, perhaps, even the legal consequences of violating the use of the product exported from Ukraine. I believe that the law should remove those points that place too much control and responsibility on Ukraine for the final use of the products exported from Ukraine. We shouldn't do that. All of this must be thrown out of the law. We should not violate international arms trade rules. But we don't have to take responsibility for Poland, I say for example, Poland, England or any other state to which it's not forbidden to export any kind of military product. We are responsible for ourselves. And France, or Poland, or any other country to which we sold our products, is its problem, it has to be responsible. Thus, in this part of the law conflicts with the national interests of Ukraine. And I think we need to focus on this and we need to get rid of it when we're presented for the second reading of this bill, we need to remove these unnecessary moments for Ukraine and it's not convenient for our exporters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u193	Please, Mikhailo Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you should give me your word every time, because I was in court today, I'm threatened with 15 days' pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u195	It's time to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u196	Then I have to make it. There was such a falsification of the case that for the first time I saw clean leaves unsigned. What do you want to write, that's how the police work. And now, essentially. Dear colleagues, I'll start with what we finish my colleague the Cloud. In this law, it's kind of right, but here, really, there's no national interest. I'm very concerned about these double technologies, they're not written down. I'll tell you my experience. Once in China, and you know, me and China are working, we've been passing technology from my lighthouse institute. And it turns out in time that Gennady Josephovich probably signed an agreement from the United States on the non-proliferation of missile technology. And the government, when Marchuk was the prime minister, put together an appendix, and there are lists, add-ons, in the list of these technologies, and there's a ban on passing, sorry, the number ten to the minus two "g." These pendulums were made with ax at the end of the last century. It was our government that wrote that we could not pass on what happened at the end of the last century. Well, the other one, you know, pass. So today with these double technologies. What is rocket technology? New materials, tools, and so forth. So all that's in nature is double technology. You don't want to give it to me. So again, it's about corruption, licenses and stuff. So you have to write it clearly. Because with the same accelerometers I came to China, I saw an American accelerometer ten minus six o'clock, Russian ten minus six, and Ukraine ten minus two. So we're running ourselves. What's more, believe me, my employees are sitting out of work today, and there's no order from Ukraine for these double technologies, but it's also very difficult to sell to anyone. And they have to die, but they're smart. So these are double technologies or remove them from here, and if you leave them, it's very clear to write them out. What has a direct bearing: rockets, another is going. And what it doesn't have, let's say, is a gyroscope on every plane. I don't know how. The planes aren't the military. So you have to write it very clearly and clearly. So that we don't drive ourselves into a dead end, like today, thanks to Marcus Eugene Kirilovich, we've driven ourselves to such an angle that if you really own it, and all the double technology is high technology, you own it, it has to disappear from Ukraine or die. All of it. Thank you for your attention. And I'm going to take that into account, and I'm going to make some more specific proposals. And that's why you can accept it in the first reading, but in the second reading, you can count on everything and everything that Stepan Ilkovich said and what I'm saying. And in general, in every law we have today, you discover, and that's how national interests go around, and then everything else. And we have the opposite. I even proposed the role of the Committee of Integration in the European Union: integration, globalization, but taking into account national interests. And our colleagues are clearing out national interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Consideration of the question of completion. We'll make decisions about him when we vote. Let's talk about it. We have eight minutes left. We'll need another seven minutes to get to the Miscellaneous. Why don't we take a quick look at this bill amending the Ukrainian Bill on Looping in Ukraine? Come on. I ask you, we will listen to the speech of the Head of the State Commission, and then we will be determined by vote. Please, briefly, if you don't mind. They're suggesting that you don't report it, and they're gonna ask questions right now. Any questions? Please. You're going to say two words in the answers. Please sign up, Your Honor, for a question. Please point it on the board. Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u198	Dear Oleg Mikolaiovich. Hinzburg, 161 constituency. I'm sorry that I may not be on the subject very much by law, very not on the subject, but the question of the circulation of verbs is going to be. Please tell me that the State Budget for 2003 records the privatisation of the Svema factory and from the sale of this plant, the removal goes somewhere to the budget of 185 million. And including some calculations, they're going to be promissory. I'd like to ask you a question. Is it a mandatory operation of this kind when selling bills to companies, or is it someone’s personal interest in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u199	Thank you for asking. In any case, honourable national MPs, I think in every case you have to look at the matter separately. If the privatisation program provides for the sale of this enterprise, the structure of the owners is also provided for by this program, which is intended to be given to whom. Sell. And make decisions. I don't think you can predict payment by promissory notes. So in this case, I can't give you a specific answer to this question, but in each case, it's a separate question of how to use a promissory note in a given situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u200	Valentina Seminouk, Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u201	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear reporter, you and I have previously abandoned some of this trendy talk about this legislative document. In accordance with the 1939 European Convention on the Millennial Round, the control of permafrosts in part of individuals must be notarized. Because today we are actually seeing in the commission such a trend that these bills, which pass as physical persons, are in many cases declared invalid by the courts. How will this regulate the control of the circulation of promissory notes in parts of individuals and legal persons? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u202	Thank you. The fact is that there really is a problem today in the courts if we are dealing with individuals who have both issued a bill and are answering the bill. Thus, this law, in time, changes, and additions, provides for the exact situation that occurs. You have to make a change to the fact that this agreement is made in writing -- that's the first. And secondly, if the issuance of a bill is carried out by a natural person, the settlement agreement and the application of promissory notes are subject to mandatory notarial certification. And this, in our view, will take away some of the situations in the courts regarding the promissory responsibilities of both the pronoun and the responsibilities of the pronoun. A special issue is the need to amend existing legislation regarding the mandatory introduction of personal data in this agreement, the identification code and passport data of a person or other person. That'll do. This is, in our view, a change to the law to regulate the participation of natural persons in long - term circulation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the questions are exhausted. All of it. Huh? From the committee, please. National MP Klitchenko from the committee, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u204	Dear colleagues! We have considered carefully on the committee the proposed bill. With the exception of some technical comments, we suggest that he be accepted on the first reading as a basis and voted on Thursday for the bill. But before that, we're going to work with you on some technical issues, because the question is very important. Indeed, it is necessary to include natural persons in the general process that exists in the State regarding the circulation of bills, and this is a matter that the committee proposes to support. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. I would just like to say that this issue was discussed by the Committee on Finance, Banking, and also a positive decision. Yeah, me too. I'm sorry. So what I'd like to say is that today, despite the fact that in 2001 the share of the bill went down in total, the volume of the trades with securities, but still today is 44 percent of the total trade in securities, and about 30.1 billion dollars is now in a long-term circulation, so I'd like to support our proposals, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u205	Thank you. Thank you, sit down, please. The question is closed, we will make decisions during the vote. Dear colleagues, I hereby announce an hour for the question of "Victory." We've got 16 people on board. Please, Anatoly Frost, the Communist faction. Get ready, Karnauhu. Enlighten those who have signed up, please. I ask you to comply with the Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u206	Deputy Frost, Communist faction, 83 constituency, Zaporez region. I was approached by villagers in the village of Vesnyan Yakimiv district of Zaporozhye district and asked for help in the following matter. "The thing is, we got 13 acres of land for pie, but we don't get any profit from it. Someone's getting rich on our account, and we're pulling the lever of a hard life. We can't process the land ourselves, yes, and nothing. This is what was leased to the Kyiv company, the Asta LTD, which wrote a 15-year contract out of 13 hectares we get one percent of the value, and exactly 0.5 tons of grain food, two tons of fodder grain and 0.5 tons of grain waste, another 2 tons of straw and 15 litres of salt oil. We were formed in the village council, as it is said, but in the first year, we were given 2,000. 400 kg of grain, 600 kg of tax, promised that the tax would pay back the money. By the second year again, but oil and straw had not been given, even though the oil had been brought, where it was not understood, sold, and fed. Tax paid nothing, said that Kiev did nothing in two years. Where did our grain flow 600 kg of pie? The contract said that the land tax would be paid by the tenant, but they refused, said that they could not be paid because they were not farmers. And we had to pay for it ourselves. During the third year, we were given only 500 kg of wheat, 200 kg of barley, and they said goodbye quietly, and the manager, our local resident, Valery Nikolayevich, told us that the company had broken up and that he and his loved ones had been able to make a full start. We're the only pensioners left on the beans. How can I live on? Can you live on 97 bracelets of pension? Please read this letter to Kuchme Leonid Danilovich, if possible. Why did he destroy the neighbors and the colchuses? Why did they take our deposits? Why did they give away such miserable pensions? They gave us land. And who is affluent in this land? So when we were decommissioned, our former director sold the technology to the Kiev firm, saying that it was the technology that was being used to decommission and drive our vans and equipment to Kiev. People who are hysterical cry, courting is useless, and it's not worth the money. So please let Kiev and me come along or send a representative to take care of each other. People will tell you a lot and tell you how they deceive, rob and destroy the village." Eleven people were signed here, including a village council member. Thank you for your attention. And I beg your pardon, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to consider this, to form, to give a protocol order, to consider it a parliamentary request and to refer it to the President's Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u207	Thank you. We'll do it the right way. Please, Karnauh, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has prepared Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u208	Mikola Karnauh, 152 constituency, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Going to the rostrum today made me feel responsible as one of the authors of the Constitution, as of June 28, 1996. The adoption of the Basic Law of our nation is an important event in our history, in the lives of the Ukrainian people. On June 28, 1996, a long and extremely complex constitutional process was completed, and a qualitatively new stage in the development of society and the state began. The Constitution is an extremely important political and legal document of long-term action, and it lays the foundations not only of today's, but of future transformations in society, it is the basis for its consolidation. So why isn't that happening? I'm addressing the Ukrainian people, I'm addressing the President, and I'm addressing my fellow MPs in the first place: I remember how reluctant it was for me to accept the democratic Constitution, and I remember when I refused to try to create a parliamentary form of government in Ukraine. We then, MPs, saw that in this perspective. Unfortunately, the president only saw it six years later. Nevertheless, in our Constitution there were very limited powers of the President, he became Head of State, the Cabinet of Ministers became the largest body in the executive system, guaranteed the activities of the judiciary. Thus, the Constitution of Ukraine, which today is, is a reliable and solid foundation for all transformations, is not needed today. That's what I'm telling you, a man who, a year after the adoption of the Constitution, spoke out of this rostrum and made changes, proposed changes that would expand Parliament's mandate. However, there are mechanisms in place to enact laws to bring the President's activities into line so that he does not use his veto for any reason, but to clearly state his reasons. There are questions that can be settled so that the President does not release the Prime Minister when he thinks about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you with the words of our great countryman and national deputy, so that you will always remember: "This is indeed an excruciating torment and a grave disgrace to bear the slave's stamp, beating the worship and. No, no, no, no, The truth in Ukraine will conquer everything, Ukraine will be the richest nation. And those who are unable to do so should write a statement and resign. I would like to inform people that Saturday at 6 p.m., there will be a report of the national deputies of Alexander Moroz, Julius Timoshenko, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, myself and others. And that's why we're inviting everyone to this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u209	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Get ready, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u210	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Hinzburg, Ukrainian Communist Party faction, 161st constituency. I signed up for the talk today, and I wanted to break that question. And I thought for a long time, whether it's my business or not, it's my question to address. Then I thought to myself that I was referring to those MPs who only passed four of us communists in major districts. And the big responsibility for that lies with me, because I have to be a good deputy, not just a beak, but a good one, so that people know that if they choose a deputy Communist, it has to be a very responsible person. And of course, the question that I'm about to address is probably not going to be very simple and very difficult. I am guided by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, which states that I should keep in contact with the electorate, study public opinion, the needs and questions of the population where I live, and my district, including. [[This is chapter 3 of article 24]] My name is Sumska District. There's no head of administration today. The sixth month of Sumska District is without leadership. With guidance, of course, but a doer of responsibility. And I don't understand why there's so much trouble in Ukraine today with the footage. I wanted to think that, maybe in social-democrats the problem is, whether we Communists give the footage there or there are others. But the question of determining the appointment of the head of the U.S. Administration should already be resolved. Why I'm speaking on the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council, according to an article in the Constitution, and I want to quote that. According to an article in the Constitution of Ukraine, article 13, the Supreme Council, where it includes the supervision of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, which according to article 118 of the Constitution of Ukraine at the time of submission of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the President signs the appointment of heads of administration. Therefore, the Supreme Council should take this matter into consideration and raise it today. And when I studied the Constitution, if there's an end to the activity and the President's turn, 90 days before the next election. If there's an end to the 60-day standoff of the Supreme Council. And we no longer have the head of the administration for the sixth month. And why does that bother me so much? Because we have such a relationship in the state and values that the management appreciates the subjects, not the actions they have, but how they personally please him or how he is committed to him. And so this absence of a head of administration today holds the leaders in suspense. I just want to address the Supreme Council, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Honourable Vladimir Mikhajlovich, my statement today is to be counted as a request and somehow to help resolve this issue in the Sumskie area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u211	National MP Lechchenko, Communist faction, prepare for Boris Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u212	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! In the Chernigiv region, opposition representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine have been persecuted by the executive branch in recent years. This is revenge for the failed presidential election in 1999, when our countryman Kuchma Leonid Danilovich received only 37 percent of the voter support in the face of violent pressure and falsification. Believe me, there are no communists left in the state authorities today, especially the government, other institutions, organizations, and even enterprises, and they have been forcibly squeezed out of there. Political persecution has even taken place in enterprises, organizations of even stateless forms of property, such as agriculture, and health and education institutions. Various influences are applied here: the police, the prosecutor’s office, the tax authorities, the district and district authorities. Examples of political dissension over the communists are numerous. The authorities even reach out to their children and grandchildren. There is only one example. Recently, in the city of Stors, executive authorities led by the Zeitschovsky regime have made a political dispute over the practical psychologist of the reorganized public education school No. 3 Klitchenko Tetjany Mikolayevna. She went to that school herself, then worked in it for 20 years as a deputy director, a practical psychologist. He is highly qualified for practical psychology in the education system. For the work of a practical psychologist, the Ministry of Education is awarded the Honorary Literacy of the Ministry of Education. Her experience was approved at the official level, and she had no comments at work. Her dissatisfaction with the head of the government began with Klitschenko’s election as the first secretary of the Corsica Paradise Company of Ukraine. At work, she openly criticized the district manager. And for the last long time, I've been looking for a reason to take revenge on a brave woman. The question was very simple. During the restructuring of the school, the number 3 was reduced to a higher - level education facility, virtually from a psychologist on a regular schedule. Most residents of the district and teachers are outraged by the local authorities. The teachers of the high school wrote to the head of the Rising Board about the support of Clichenko, but after that they were subjected to pressure. I personally referred to the minister of education and science of the Cremen. He promised to resolve the matter fairly, and he handed my letter to the subordinates, who sent it to the district administration of education and science, whose leadership was also politically motivated by the dissatisfaction of Communist Klitschenko. The Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Namenka recently responded. He claims that everything is done by detaining the requirements of existing legislation. The crew of a psychologist is also virtually eliminated. And this is said by an officer who signed an order a few months ago that focuses on the heads of the district education and science authorities to preserve the existing network of practical psychologists. I am again addressing the Minister of Education and Science. Dear Vassil Grigorovich! Do not go over the matter with those in our country who are committing political executions. Please personally intervene in the matter that I have raised and resolve it in a fair manner without political subtext. Thank you for your attention and please correct my address to Minister Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u213	Boris Ilchi Oliynik, Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Throughout their history, Ukrainians have fought bravely and without success the syndrome of "my house from the land." Regrettably, the symptoms of this psychology are yet to be known, and if this is very unpleasant in life, it is dangerous in external politics. There's a lot to pay for. Let's be honest. It is because of our silent agreement, which borders on apostasy, that Yugoslavia is being destroyed. Kosovo has already been torn from Serbia. There is a gap between Serbia and Montenegro. Now we're kind of going under the shadow of something that's about to hit Iraq. Does anyone really think that all of this will have to be paid? I'm going to invite myself to join the former U.S. Justice Minister, the great lawyer Ramsey Clarke. I quote: "We destroyed Yugoslavia only because it was the last island of socialism in Europe. For years we supplied arms and money to Ben Laden until the Soviet Union fell. Now we know what to do with Dagestan and the six former Soviet republics where Muslims live in the event of a conflict with Russia. If we have succeeded in Bosnia, why should we not be happy with Chechnya? The strategy is the same as Muslims against Slavs." The quote is complete. This is the whole truth about human rights, about the protection of Albanians, about public values, about freedom of speech e str., e ctr. Let's pay tribute to the Ukrainians, because if they're lucky with Bosnia and Kosovo, why can't they treat us in regions I don't call yet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u215	National Deputy Solomonine, Communist faction. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u216	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. In October of this year, certain political forces in Galicina celebrated the 60th anniversary of the creation of the UPA. In some media outlets, it was suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine was delaying its consideration of the government bill on the restoration of historical justice regarding Ukrainian freedom and independence. First of all, I want to mention Professor Stanislaw Kulczycki's publication in the "Derkalo of the Week," where this is literally stated. “It has been decided to transmit it, this bill, to Parliament. Another publication, also in a well-known newspaper and a well-known professor in the newspaper Dan, states: "It is not just a document, but a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine." What is really going on? Is it fair to suggest that the Supreme Council is doing the wrong thing? I am addressing Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Petrovich Seminozhenko with a statement: Please provide information, because there is no such bill in the Supreme Council. What is the point? I get the answer: the U.N.A. government commission to study UN-OPA's activities at a meeting that took place in July is only considering an advance bill. - Still, since the final draft of the bill has not yet been finalized, we consider its publication premature. Not even in the Supreme Council and the bill, and respected professors, doctors of science are blowing up famous media noises all over Ukraine at the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Chapoval and Kolczytsky, what are you doing?Oh, my God! Why are you deceiving the people of Ukraine and the whole of our society? The Ministry of Justice is addressed by the people on this subject, collecting signatures against having such sacrament take place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vladimir Petrovich Seminoženko answers correctly: yes, a bill drawn up by the Minust, which takes into account comments and suggestions, including the requirement of the authors mentioned above, will be considered at the next meeting of the government commission. At this governmental meeting of the government commission, the Center for Truth in the Organization of Ukrainian Veterans presented such incontrovertible evidence that it is never possible to do so until our country, Ukraine, exists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u217	National Deputy Orzhachowski, Communist faction, prepare for Mihovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u218	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction, Hersonian. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Voters! I was moved by numerous appeals by voters, representative and executive authorities of Hersoniania on social protection issues in the area affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Repeated references to central authorities, regional authorities, voters, and other positive consequences of the issue in question have yet to come to fruition. However, today the voters and I believe that the problem that arose in the Hersonian region needs an urgent solution. And that's why. There are 9,000 people living in the area. 294 citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster Among them are the adults of the first category of 729 citizens, the second category of 2,981 citizens, and 2,444 children affected. These are mainly those who participated in eliminating the effects of the Chernobyl AES and the families displaced from the area. Owing to the lack of funding for compensatory expenses, a strained social situation has arisen among the affected population in the area. Yes, the overall need for budgeting for 2002 to target measures related to the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the social protection of the population in the area is 8 million. That's right. The amount of funding is 5.7 million. Money The priority areas of funding for the current year are payments and compensations for the benefits of food security for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. For this year’s stated target, the need for funds is 4 million dollars. 260 thousand. That's right. It is planned according to the amount of funding from the fund to take action to eliminate the reported disaster and social protection of the population for the current year, only 1 million people have been killed. 230 grand, a sum of 28.9 percent of what's needed. The reason for the debt is the imbalance between the budgetary need for social protection for the affected citizens and expenditure in the State Budget, which was approved by the Supreme Council. In February of this year, the Cabinet of Ministers held a field meeting in Herson City, which resulted in Kamina’s decision of February 25, current year, number 212 on measures to address the socioeconomic problems in the area. But as of October 1, this year, paragraph 15 of this regulation is not fully funded. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you, I am addressing Anatolia Kirilovich Kinakh with a request, an urgent request for a positive solution. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think it will be true if you send my speech to the head of the government. Last, I'd like to. That's it, that's it. One minute. You speak often, I don't disturb you, reverend Rephat. Last one. That's enough. Many economic, political, and personnel have been carried out in the Herson area of experimentation. I am still asking you to help us in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u219	National MP Mihovich, prepare for the national deputy Yavorowski. Notice how we work: calmly, considerately, quietly, not even normally here in the hall. That's good. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u220	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Allow me, Your Honor, to draw your attention to the facts quite widely published by the media, but why they are silenced by the executive authorities. It's about a village built in the village of Guta Ivano-Frankiv district called the Presidential Palace. My countrymen expected it to be built, because the natural climates in Zakarpata are suitable for rest and treatment. You can see it in. The buildings were alerted by complex meteors or other factors, and they built this building of neighbors. But it is probably better, for nearly 11,000 acres [11,000 ha] of forest has been taken to a new pseudomedical facility. Passing it on to a non-forest organization is a gross violation of the law. There is an economic and moral side to the matter: how much money is spent on the new building is unknown, although my colleague Boudhugan has tried to fix it more than once. They would likely be enough to pay thousands of teachers or nurses a few years ’ wages, to pay for many children’s families or black people. Last but not least, throughout 2001, there has been no aid for clean food at all. Huge funds are now being spent on maintaining the Presidential Palace today. In this regard, I propose. First. To recommend to the government that the Ministry of Health be organized and used for the socio-medical rehabilitation of victims of natural disasters and chronically ill residents of the Karpat Mountains. The other one. On further consideration of the State budget, it is appropriate to cut, half as much as possible, the financing of the so-called DUSI, because it has concentrated huge costs and now there is probably nowhere to go. Third. During the trial of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, he should be allowed to stay in the Gutian sanatorium complex. Finally, the General Prosecutor’s Office — the fourth — should verify the regularity of the funds spent and the alienated forest arrangements, not only to verify but to take appropriate measures against the rifling of the national wealth of the Carpathian region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u221	Thank you. The national deputy Yavorowski. There was another point to add: Order the Supreme Council, and we would have everyone here right. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, our esteemed voters, who may be listening to us now. Indeed, we now have such a beautiful setting in the Supreme Council: sitting about ten persons. If it were sitting even smaller, it would be even better. We have "Virgin" today, and I would like to use it really as different at the end of the week. The first thing I think by assignment and "Our Ukraine," and I think, and a lot of national MPs, conscientious, decent people, I'd like the teachers of the Lvivish who are now strikes to know that we're giving them signals of our solidarity, so that they know that we are perfectly aware that without a teacher there will be no Ukraine, there will be no state, and there will be no future. And we will do our utmost to make sure that the wages that the authorities owe them during such a great period of time are paid to them today. And what they're fighting for is fair, and we support them in that. The second thing I'd like to do is use the "Variance" again. I have a lot of letters coming from all over Ukraine asking where the program was going, a publicist program that was going on the first channel of "20 minutes with Volodymyr Yavorowski," which was addressing important social issues that came up with about 24,000 letters. So I want you, my dears, to know that this program has been closed down, closed off from the bank, shut it down unconditionally, despite the fact that I am a national deputy, that I am the head of the National Writer Association, headed by a subcommittee on television and radio. This program's just been shut down. And the last thing I'd like to say. Dear colleague Solomatin, I would very much like to ask you to speak out of this rostrum today, you will not provoke me, you will answer, because in these answers, as you would provoke me, Medvedchuk would wipe his hands now and his entire company would wipe his hands. Look, the communists again, they're back on UN-UPA troops. Don't throw us back to the 90s, I beg of you. Don't divorce the hysterics from the rostrum, it's so scary. Do not look for enemies among UPA soldiers. I'm an Easterner, my father fought in the Red Army and I'm wounded, but I know a little story as a representative of the Ukrainian intelligence, I'm elected in that district. I ask you very much, let us have a mind today, let us not provoke this discussion. You don't want to vote for their rehabilitation, but no one will make you vote. But to ban asking that question today and working for Medvedchuk, he's sitting there and his hands are wiping right now: oh, look how I'm this anti-tumb opposition, like I'm her thorn. I'm asking you very much, and I'm sure you realize that your performance today was a mistake, and you don't need it, neither do we. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u223	National MP Phydenko, Communist faction, prepare for Baranowski. Dear colleagues! I ask you to follow the rules, we have nine more speakers. We all need to get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u224	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The topic of my speech today is that I want to take a very difficult, very important issue for society -- the pitiful state of one of the largest segments of the population of Ukraine -- pensioners. The goal of this speech is to draw attention once again to this category of people who have or do not have the most moral right to a much better respect for them by the state, to a calm and secure old age. This is, first of all, our parents and mothers. This was done by their hands in industrialization, in collectiveization. It was at the cost of their lives and blood that stopped an enemy who hated him during the war. At last, they have done their utmost to lift up the war - torn industry and agriculture and bring Ukraine into the ranks of the first ten most developed countries in the world. Their merits to the State could be specified and continued. Veterans, so one word of them is right, it's worth it. What did the state and its rulers, in particular the President and the government, give them in response? Pitiful pensions and social benefits. For comparison. In Belarus a veteran has a pension of $100 and in Ukraine less than $20. Eliminated free medicine for veterans and education for their grandchildren. High prices and free housing provided by the Soviet Ukraine in its time. Above all, power, which has become totally antinational, is doing everything to make war veterans, labor and military service feel alienated from society. Leonid Kumcha as a candidate for the Presidents, speaking in 1999 in the city of Lutsk in the theater, himself heard, as they say, on his ears, the very first sentence was: " All the troubles in the state have taken place because we've got a lot of veterans." Well, as they say, the conclusion is very simple. Once again, Kuchma has succeeded in doing everything to keep them smaller and smaller. What does and promises to give power to present and future veterans? Once again, pensions are lower than the subsistence minimum, unemployment for their grandchildren and children is corrupt and semimedical. Demeaning pitiful benefits and subsidies. Everything is done to raise tariffs in an inexorably and unjustifiably literally for everything. There is no enlightenment in government or in the future. The so - called pension reform almost completely loses its pension burden and puts it on the shoulders of the citizens themselves. You want more money for your old age, put it on a book in a private commercial bank, not a government bank. Where are the guarantees? In keeping with the tradition of the government of Victor Yushchenk, the present - day government of Kinaha wants to eliminate the benefits provided by the laws and replace them with what is called targeted aids. What's that, let me give you an example. One ton of coal was presented as a gift. That's what it's called. Now the disability, for example, 2 groups are planning to issue 75 bracelets of address aid, and a ton of coal costs 3-4 times more. Here's what's going to be an address aid. Veterans protest such charity. Veterans to Volina and the city of Lucca asked me to give the leadership of the Supreme Council a proper statement that they don't actually support this kind of government approach that I actually do. At the same time, as the conversation progressed, so did my colleague, Solomon, but the veterans really accepted the application and asked me to pass it on to the Chief of the Supreme Council, and I was asked. I'm transmitting. Again with the heroization of UN UPA. And I'm doing it. Not to disturb, not to dissipate the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u225	National MP Baranowski. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you, this is the National MP Rudzkowski. They arranged for him to speak from both national deputies of Barani. So I don't ask for more than five minutes. Get ready for Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u226	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski Dear colleagues! I can honestly tell you that as a citizen and a parliamentarian, I already have these earrings and castles sitting in my liver, these mothers around our President in all the publications that quote him everywhere, beginning with the Empress and the Crusades, and ending with different "times." To whom no one thinks that our guarantor of the Constitution is also a person who has a normal heart, that he is finally a good father and grandfather. That he, as a normal person, must receive positive emotions, not just pins, but in order to govern the state, all of us. Look what's going on. It is worth having Leonid Danilovich sit down at the dining table, as there are various inhospitable gossips. Said, during his electoral visit to Odessa so "was found", a poor man who had to be led under his hand. So what? In the city above the sea, and so far in every brewery, they're asked to pour a red cot, a sauce that leads to Kuchma, which is beyond the horizon. The same was true in Sevastopol. The guarantee under the cabinet grew tears all along the coast and the Graffsky pier. And I'm in this, to be honest, I don't see anything wrong with this job, and I need to be able to relax. We are all humans without sin. Why don't the President cry in front of everyone, in fact, an unsolicited tear, driven by an excess of alcohol, have to be brought to the record? It's another matter when the head of state goes abroad. I'm here to say that we have the right structures that we should keep an eye on when the President is relaxing and that he's already being attributed to him outside our country. Leonid Danilovich and Victor Cronomirdin went on a tour of Siberia, and what was already assigned to him? It's like he didn't tie the guy up, he didn't dry off the liquor. In Hunti-Mansi, I say, the whole people were looking, they didn't believe that this cheerful, loose and capable man, who they say is "get on the board," is no one but the president of all of Hong Kong. Only Leonid Danilovich's exclaims, "We Hollahs, all a little with the fool" were immediately convinced by the Siberians. You read this, the soul will be filled with pride for our guarantor. With such a president everywhere, he's very close and understandable not only to the top, but also to the bums. Is it not the work of State authority? But this is the most disturbing thing. During these days, Leonid Danilovich and his nearby family flew to Armenia. The guest Armenians, well aware of the wet nature of our head of state, what did they give him? Of course it's a horse! As a mockery of the world, for example, the host is given a horse; once a car was donated to Brezhnev, and now it is given to everyone who loves it. I'm thinking, where was Leonid Danilovich, head of the Presidential Administration, Mr. Medvedchuk? Why has he been able to mock the whole world over our head of state? Why did he allow the protocol that he had clearly agreed to in advance to make our head of state laugh? Wasn't it clear that the cognac in the presentation was not just a gesture of goodwill, but a clear hint of our guarantor of the Constitution's saucy nature? How could such a true diplomatic wolf, Anatoly Zlenko, have gone? Where did his intercessors look? Are the stars of a strong Ararat? If only that would be the end of it. According to the Armenian newspaper Aravot, Mr. Kuchma was so drunk during an official visit to Yerevan that he had a drunken debut at the Aragas cafe, he was terribly embarrassed. The thing is, Leonid Danilovich, the newspaper says, is that he had a good cry at the hand of the President of Armenia on Lake Savannah. He arrived in Yerevan, which is called ready. Then I quote the newspaper "Aravot," and she writes, "Leonide Kuchma has behaved in disgrace. In a drunken way, he went to the musicians, asking the same question, "Are you impotent? Why aren't you girls with you?".. Then Kuchma began to rush past the waiters. He planted some girls at the President's table, and he even put down a prayer on one of the girls. They say the President of Armenia personally apologized for the conduct of his colleague.” This news flashed around the world's information agencies and a dirty pot hung on the earrings and hails that Leonid Kuchma had sold to Iraq and Iran. Do you think that the disgrace with the jazz impotents, with the spark plugs on the Armenian girls' tiny skirts, was in Ukraine's name? I would like to ask from this high rostrum in the head of Mr. Medvedchuk's presidential administration: for what and for whom did you look, Your Honor, allowing your patron to take such a long drink into his hands? Where is our glorious foreign political office? What does it do? You, Mr. Zlenek, why don't you defend the good name of our glorious President? Why don't you make a note of the protest to the whole world that it's slander? I want to hear an explanation from Mr. Medvedczuk and Mr. Zlenko: how did they come to such a life that they can't protect the head of state from such disgrace, who, abroad, fights with impotent jazz and lightning at the hands of seductive girls? Please consider this an official request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u227	People's MP Singeruk, prepare for Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u228	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Spivacuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine Last night, we were looking at here in the afternoon, an extremely acute problem -- the development of secondary education in Ukraine, which ultimately depends on the future of our state. There have been many very nice and very useful suggestions that I hope will gradually be implemented. And there was a kind of excitement, if you say, in your paws, with the postgraduate education of our teachers, the masters of manufacturing training of the tradespeople, who are actually closest to the children. I'd like to draw attention today to the functioning of a fairly powerful center today, a teaching center, if I may say so, of the hopstic methodological and educational centre of vocational education. For ten years, the Centre has been designated in accordance with the decree of the Regional Education Administration of July 21, 1992 of its statute and the order of the Ministry of Education of Ukraine No. 114 of April 14, 1997, in addition to the scientific provision of vocational education institutions, has improved the qualification of engineering and pedagogical workers. To this end, the structure of the center has created a department of methodological and professional learning, which is made up of scientists. During this time, over 3,000 have been qualified here. Teachers, including over 400 from Cherniewsky, Ivano-Frankiv, Žitomirsky, Ravensky, Vinnitsky, Volinsky, Ternopil and Zacarpathian regions. The activities of the Centre for Higher Qualifications of Teachers of Vocational Education have been approved by the State Auditorium Commission. The regional training of professional personnel will substantially save the state spending on teaching staff in the Donetsk Institute of Postgraduate Education of Engineering Educators and is convenient and convenient for the region’s professional profession. Until 2002, there were no problems with the financing of courses, but unfortunately, the function of "postgraduate education" has now disappeared, and despite repeated appeals by the Hmelnicka authorities of education and science of the Hmielnicka region, the directorate of the Scientific and Educational Centre and the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to allow in the current year the administration of the State Treasury in the Hmielnice region to implement expenditure on the activities of the Centre for the Development of the Vocational Competence of Educators at the expense of the State Budget, the establishment of a public procurement centre for after-graduate education at the rate of 30,000 dollars per year, these issues are not resolved. In addition, by his decree of August 17, 2002, the Cabinet of Ministers changed the name of the center. I am addressing you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, and I would like to request that this speech in defence of the Hmelnicki Scientific and Methodological Centre of Occupational Education be considered an official request to the Minister of Education of Kremen and Prime Minister of Kinach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u229	National Deputy Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction, to prepare Borschevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u230	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I would like to inform the Supreme Council of the disturbing trends that have become more active in the information space of Ukraine. While we are having a discussion here, at a national level about the state of political censorship and freedom of speech, unfortunately, local authorities are reducing this area of freedom of speech every day. Today, there is opposition in Kirovograd, where a number of journalists, in fact, most of the printed media and television media, are judging, not surprisingly, judges, where one of the former candidates for the position of the city’s Kirovograd head applied for a lawsuit with fantastic sums for most editions operating in Kirovograd. Regrettably, the district administration and the city’s judicial system are not functioning properly. We've looked at, practically, all those lawsuits on the committee, and we've come to the conclusion that the sums that are on the press, and the general approach is, rather, to collect accounts, rather than, let's say, to protect our honour and dignity. I would like to refer to the leaders of the Kirovograd district administration to stop this opposition that is now taking place between the authorities and journalists and to allow journalists to carry out their professional duties. Equally dangerous is the tendency when district administrators direct orders to printer managers to ban the printing of newspapers. I have a letter from a series of newspapers from Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Poltavsk regions, where they simply refuse to do so, and they refuse to do so on the basis that this newspaper is announcing opposition. There was no such absurdity in this country that there was no prohibition for any reason provided for by law, and they were told directly that "you don't support power, but you're lighting up opposition, we won't print you." I would accordingly like to ask the leaders of these at least three areas that I have called to act in accordance with current legislation, because the committee and the Supreme Council, I think, will intervene in this process. However, the dangerous situation, I think, has been the exposure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a series of television shows and newspapers. Only the 16th number on the First National Channel was the "Question of the Day" program, where, well, it's completely incorrect for me to think of a case against the Supreme Council of today. When it came to our work, journalists decided to install the fighting moments that took place in the Parliament of the Third Call, thus violating, well, basic professional ethics, journalistic ethics. And it's really impressive. I wrote a letter to the president of the National Television Company so that such violations would not be allowed. But I have the impression that they want the Supreme Council to make such a scarecrow, and the national deputies will soon scare the children. Well, I'd like to ask the directors of the radio organizations to act and get out of the current legislation, and from their own conscience. And it must be feared that the Supreme Council should be, because it must be respected as a higher legislative body that must exercise parliamentary control. But we don't have to be scared.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u231	Thank you. I'm going to ask the Mikaly Tomenka committee, which is in charge of perhaps preparing some additions, a warning about the decision that is in effect, announcing the activities of the Supreme Council, so that next Thursday we can vote on it if there are any proposals. Please, National Deputy Borschevski, Communist faction. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u232	Borstevsky, Communist Party of Ukraine, Dnepropetrovsk oblast. Honourable colleagues, President, distinguished voters. I have taken the floor today in connection with a very acute problem that is growing in our country. This is the outcome of the President's criminal decree on the reform of the village. The peasants are being robbed today. They have taken away and are not owed the debts of the former SPCs. Many of the managers, who have changed the name of the firms, have waived the payment of these debts. I'm not talking about property pies that many former colleagues have not yet been able to obtain, because some of the cattle have been slaughtered, either sold, or sold, and the farms have been destroyed. There are still a lot of people today calling on me as a people's MP that they have not received State acts to use the land. And what does our authority do? Public administrations are at best neutral. But it is not a secret that many civil servants today are interested in participating directly in this looting of peasants. Today, courts are sent to the courts, but on the basis of, without any examination, on the basis of any recent documents, decisions are generally not in favour of farmers. And actually today, a peasant is supposed to sow, clean bread, and he's supposed to be wiping around these courts where he's denied consideration by procedure. The Public Prosecutor's Office shares the same passive position. We're seeing today. Now, today the minister told us what a good police force we have, but I'm telling you, The Pavlovgrad district of Dnepropetrov district, where the landlord hired me, showed me a colonel's contract, where the police tried to harvest crops from peasants, beat them up, put them in prisons, and so on. Therefore, in the past, we have already raised the issue of the establishment of a special commission to review the outcome of this criminal decree on village reform. I guess I'm asking you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to give a protocol order to the professional committees. And it is only Parliament that must be able to help farmers today. And together, we must prevent this drama, which is being played on the ground today, from becoming a tragedy, as it has been many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u233	National Deputy Gurov, Parliamentary Group of the People's Authority. Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u234	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! Vadim Gurov, Gornometallurgical Krivbass. I just want to say that, let's say, I was sent to this rostrum on this very day. I took the calendar of meetings of the Supreme Council for the next week and began to look hard and where there was a review of the Metals Act. You saw and remember yesterday what happened when we were on the agenda. Yeah? There were 228 votes. I saw today that there was no question on this schedule. I don't want to talk about the importance of this problem. I just don't want to take up too much time. But I want to give you an example of a combination like Krivoroztal, which gives 25, think about 25 productions across Ukraine, one combination. Thus, without scrap metal, liquid iron flows instead of scrap metal. And we say: energy, energy, energy. And the energy value of a ton of iron is 13 times higher than a ton of scrap metal. So she asks, how do we manage? They spent 40,000 liquid irons last month. What is it? It's a cost, it's a ton of product, it means that our pension fund didn't get our pensioners money as much as it could give the combination. That means the budget was broken because everything went into production. Is that a misunderstanding? That is why we made the question very clear yesterday. And I believe Vladimir Mihajlovich, we still need to review and introduce this issue on Tuesday or Wednesday. So we can vote on Thursday. Well, there can't be any way that exporters can spread gold, metal, and we didn't have anything to do with it. Right now, we are the only ones who have met with the European Development Bank. Please, they made an investment. Ukraine's factory in Donetsk. This factory is now the best factory in the CIS and is partly without scrap metal. There's a sale, no anti-dumping. We have to understand that. Who's going to come to us with investments? And one last question. It's a purely perverse question. The 15 members of the union from the First Level Mine arrived the other day. There are 15 million in the budget for the restructuring of the underground Krivbass. They only got four. Four months without pay. It's a mess. I ask you to consider this my contribution and my appeal to our Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u235	National MP Chubarov, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u236	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Having listened very carefully to Boris Illich's speech, I want to continue his reflection by overcoming this thesis: "Let's look for the causes of the problems that exist in our society in front of us." Isn't it understandable that outside you can just blow up what's rotting in the middle?Oh, my God! You can refer to any authority, including the Justice Minister of the United States of America, but you can't have children from those tens of thousands of murders, rapes, other abuses that have taken place in regions like Kosovo, before in Croatia, Bosnia, and today in Chechnya. That's why he thought and believed that the most effective of our actions to avoid any ethnic or religious conflicts in our country should be to be really equal to the attitude of government authorities and officials, to all Ukrainian citizens. Regrettably, the examples of open - minded patenting by individual states are becoming more and more public officials of one religion or another. I think our committees need to pay attention to that. I don't know why, in so many ways, the heads of state institutions are acting the way they do. I don't understand why a minister of one religion is invited to a higher police facility when he is accepted by a classmate, and others are not invited. Why do they not invite fellow believers to attend other religions or do they want such a process of sanctification of the start of their ministry? This is not a violation of the relevant rules of the Constitution, which clearly states that the State and the Church are separate. I'm really, frankly telling you, I don't understand why on the first national channel of UT-1, the evening story should always be colored with a religious theme, well, as one religion, because our nation is not only a political one, but also a multireligious one? And another point I'd like to make is, it's from a whole other sphere. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to come to you and ask you for something. In fact, thanks to you and our services, we have enough of these, well, we've got computer equipment. Our computer service, although small, is trying to create the conditions under which we can obtain and enjoy all the information. But what we have to say is that the very information capabilities of the Supreme Council are becoming more and more limited because we can't strengthen the very high professional level of our workers -- both Zdzeba, and Mackeevich and many others -- resources. We will now approve the budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- it is no longer for us, it will be for the future composition of the Supreme Council -- we need to think very clearly about strengthening the network of the Supreme Council of computers, and for that, I think, in the relevant committee, namely, the Rules Committee, there is going to be some open hearing of deputies on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u237	Thank you. With regard to this issue, I would like to say to you, fellow believers, that we are now working on this problem to solve it. We still have to complete the session room with equipment to have this closed cycle here and we're going to keep moving. I think so. That's a very fair observation. Please, Paul Matvienko, the European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, during the election meeting, I was repeatedly approached by representatives of the educational sector and prepared such a joint letter from the community of directors of higher educational institutions and asked to read their address to the National Deputies. "Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable members of the national parliament, please fill in article 9, paragraph 17, in the consideration of the 2003 draft of the Ukrainian State Budget, "except for the provision of educational services." and unlike the own revenues of the budget resulting from the implementation or rental of state property, fund-raising, foam and so on, the costs of education are investment. They are promoted by the physical and legal axis of the bulls, they have a purpose, and their use is conditioned by the cost, which is an integral part of the agreement between the parties. In accordance with the Ukrainian Investment Act, articles 7, 9, 18, the State has no right to intervene in the implementation of contractual relations between investment entities. The allocation of funds for the provision of educational services to budgetary institutions and their inclusion in the State budget will result in the use of funds made available by natural and legal persons for the financing of public procurement and will result in the breach of contractual obligations between the entities of investment in their activities and the rules of law, article 39 of the Property Act, and article 61 of the Education Act, article 63 of the Higher Education Act. In line with global practice, the cost of providing educational services received from natural and legal persons relates to the development of education in Ukraine and is not part of the State Budget. " I would like to request this call from the Rectors of Higher Education Institutions to transfer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-18-m0.u239	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who signed up for the "Variance" speech, will finish our work. I think we'll do it this way. There were a lot of good points and suggestions here, and we're going to make them where we need them, as a request, and I'm going to send them to the appropriate executive and other authorities to respond accordingly. Why in the form of a request? For more attention and discipline to be given to this matter. Anything else about your suggestions and comments we're working on in the right order. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed, thank you for your work. The next plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on October 22.
