ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Take a seat, please. I'd like the secretariat to turn on the " Rada" system. Please register. Today, 324 national deputies registered at the morning session. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today's our three colleagues' birthday party. Roman Volodymyrovich’s weaving is now 40 years old, let’s welcome him on this glorious date and wish him success. Also today is the birthday of Mikola Petrovich Melnikov and Nikola Dmitrovich’s chariot. Welcome to our friends. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! As you all know, on April 26, 2002, the Central Election Commission declared elected and registered the Widow of Gennady Josephovich as Ukraine's national deputy in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the election bloc of the political parties "Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". At the time of our taking the oath of Gennady, Josephovich was on his way abroad. Today, Gennady Josephovich is present in the Hall and in accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine before taking office, he is to take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Udovenko Hennady Josephovich, is invited. Please, Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u2	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. And now I'm answering the questions. I had the privilege of being elected first president of the General Assembly of the United Nations from the former Soviet Union in 1997, and was present at a meeting of the Council of Presidents of the General Assembly, representing Ukraine, answering questions about what was going on in Ukraine and in the Ukrainian Parliament. I am a member of the Council of Presidents of the General Assembly, and I think you should even be proud of that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u3	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich. Dear Gennady Josephovich, allow me to wish you success in parliamentary work and good health. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! There are several announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Udovenko Gennadija Josephovich into the membership of the "Our Ukraine" delegation. [[Applause]] I'm also informing you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Gaddaczyk from the Socialist Party of Ukraine and its membership in the "One Ukraine" faction. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! We are continuing our consideration of the issues that have been identified for the period leading up to the election of the leadership and the establishment of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today we continue to consider the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its deputies. Who has any suggestions? A number of national deputies and factions are asked to give them a few minutes to perform. [[Here comes the written proposals]] There's a proposal in faction-recording mode to give word to all factions, and then let's figure out what we're going to do next. Is there no objection? None. Please sign up. Secretariat, prepare for entry from the scene, please. A statement is being made on the scene of the factions. I ask the secretariat to explain the list of speakers on the board. John Sidorovich Boki was the first to sign up. Who will speak from socialists, Ivan Sidorovich or Alexander Alexander? Alexander Alexanderovich. On behalf of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz is given the floor. Next, from the "For the One Ukraine" block. Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u4	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich! Dear fellow MPs! Now, because of the media, society's attention is tied to the work of the Supreme Council, and there's a lot of discussion about why exactly, inefficiently or ineffectively, the Supreme Council is working to date? Obviously, this interest needs to be satisfied not only because of the information provided on television and some radio programs but also by allowing factions to briefly exchange their thoughts on the job and then make a decision. The statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" in this regard also calls for about this option. I think we should answer the questions that voters are asking today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u5	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The word is Samofal Gennady of the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u6	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Please pass the word to Zarubinski, "One Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u7	Turn on the Zarubinski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u8	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The situation in the Supreme Council in recent days is, indeed, serious, tense, but it is obvious that neither we nor society can and should not see it as a tragic or catastrophic situation. People’s deputies working in the previous third vocation remember well how the spikeriad took place. And remember, when the people of Ukraine, the Ukrainian society, chose to the Supreme Council, often, the diverse political forces and political parties, who have followed the different ways of Ukraine to the future, which in different ways imagine the political system, the political system of the country, of course, we should have, and this naturally, a certain time to agree, in order for these arrangements to then be implemented, and not to be tactical, I would say, mercential. And so those negotiations, those consultations that are now taking place in the Ukrainian Parliament, I'm stressing once again, are absolutely natural, absolutely legitimate. On the other hand, we need to understand that for agreements, there must be a basic, constructive understanding of those proposals, those conditions, and sometimes those that arise from one faction or another as a subject of the Ukrainian Parliament. To my conviction, you can't look every day or every hour at these conditions, look at the subjects of the arrangements, make them things that are clearly unacceptable to the representatives of other political forces. Consider such requirements, all the time new requirements, only as a certain ultimatum to the political forces of another direction, how to continue and delay to some extent the search for agreements and not contribute to the normal resolution and personnel issues, and, for example, legislative issues that will arise in the Supreme Council. So our faction is that we focus our efforts on choosing the leadership of the Supreme Council, not taking this process outside the Supreme Council, not destabilizing Ukrainian society, because we are one of the branches of government, and how quickly we can start to work constructively, depends largely on the interaction between the branches of government, and how constructively we can continue to work. So I think it's not ambition or ultimatums that should be in the Supreme Council today, but even oral arrangements between factions. We need to stand in the language of the arrangements and the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given by the faction of the Communist Party Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenk. The next one is Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u10	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. I would like to take the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u12	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The Communist faction is ready to work on further negotiations and determine the optimum version of the package that would be worthy of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council through its leadership and committee management. This, I think, is a major task to rule out any possible negative developments in the Supreme Council. We come out in the first place, and unfortunately, the experience of the negative previous call convinces us that if the Supreme Council is not to be the object of manipulation in the hands of those or other politicians or the leadership of the state, when all charges are placed on the Supreme Council for what is going on in the regions with those or other social sectors of the population, today we need to take very seriously the decision of the Supreme Council to ensure that it is, both here in the session hall and outside the Supreme Council, with respect and trust. Secondly, we still think that we should also consider that, unfortunately, after the election, we have a somewhat divided Supreme Council. And we Communists say once again that the Communist faction is ready to ensure stability and stability in the organization of the work of the Supreme Council by offering its package. Next. We would like to draw your attention to the fact that, indeed, today, both by individual politicians and by the media, the idea of mercantility, some distribution of portfolios, and some other. We are opposed to such approaches, and today we are addressing the media. Understanding your position, the need, and the desire to give the news first, we urge you: don't do what's happening now, when the rumors, the different things, let's say, the myths are spreading in society, they're vilifying some political power, they're accusing us of something, and they're also trying to create from the very beginning of our work a negative perception and attitude of the electorate towards us all in general, the Supreme Council, not dividing us into political parties. So once again, we urge: let's hold consultations, offer candidates that will ensure stability and trust in the Supreme Council. And the media are urged to make sure that, not gossip today, the air is filled with reality, the position of specific politicians, the attitude of what each political party is proposing. We offer constructiveism and normal cooperation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u13	I want to apologize to National Deputy Nechiporuk, he signed up for a social-democracy speech, and I just mechanically missed it. Now, let's give the word to Philenck Volodymyr Philipovich, and then to the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u14	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! I went up to this rostrum to announce the official statement of the faction "Our Ukraine." It's called "The Pressure on the People's Deputies of Ukraine" and it explains, in particular, why transitions are taking place, for example, as we have heard today, from sociofraction to the faction of Ukraine. A statement. "From the new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, most citizens expected constructive work, hoped for the professionalism of politicians, their willingness to give in to personal ambitions for Ukraine's future. However, Parliament’s first week of work has proved that open and honest politics is far from being exercised by all authorities. The administrative, financial, and strong pressure on Ukraine’s national deputies intensified. Members of the "Our Ukraine" faction are called into government offices, where in ultimative form they are required to vote for one of the candidates to serve as Speaker of Parliament. Powerful structures have also been involved in this work. Such a trend is evidence that Ukraine is becoming a totalitarian state in which national electorates cannot have their own thoughts and views. For the national MPs, it's all been decided, and the only thing left is to find a tool to convince them. In the arsenal of power such tools are sufficient: law enforcement and tax administration, threats and pressure. We stand firm against intimidation and blackmail! The terrorization of the people's deputies will not go away! The "Our Ukraine" faction believes that such actions distort the will of the people and undermine the negotiation process for the formation of a model for the new Supreme Council of Ukraine. This could lead to a parliamentary crisis. The "Our Ukraine" faction draws the attention of the President of Ukraine, the management of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central and local executive authorities, to the inadmissibility of interference by officials in the activities of the country's sole legislative body. By appreciating such actions as the violation of the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, we warn the organizers and performers of the "companion of pressure" -- you have crossed the line under which criminal responsibility arises. We regard these acts as having the characteristics of the crime envisaged in article 344 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code as having an illegal impact on the Ukrainian people's deputies. The "Our Ukraine" faction demands an immediate halt to illegal pressure on Ukrainian national MPs. We're going to fight the blackmail against the MPs, and we're going to try to bring responsibility to the guilty." As part of my remaining time, I take the opportunity to remind everyone that today would be 33 years old for Guy Gongadze. And about that statement. I'm going to hand it to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin with a request to convey to the President of Ukraine, and it's printed here in a bigger font than the one you received during your registration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u15	Thank you. The word is given to the representative of the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, Volodymyr Pavlovich Neciporuk. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u16	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 194, Hmelnicka District]] Thank you. Please pass the word to Krawchuk Leonid Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u17	The word is given to Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u18	National Deputy of Ukraine (Balgato-mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Dear National Deputies! I actually have an offer. From the media, on different channels, we hear different nuances and accents about the faction leaders' arrangements - 2, 4. And in fact, the Supreme Council makes decisions, but we don't know what the factions have agreed on. So I suggest that every faction manager today go out to the rostrum and say, what's the deal, what's the difference? So that we, the people's deputies, can figure out if there's even a way to solve this question, if it's just going to call us into the session room, so that we can hear the wise decisions of the faction leaders and actually just do the mechanical work -- push the buttons. I'd like the faction leaders to tell the Supreme Council what they're sharing, say, four faction leaders or two faction leaders: "One Ukraine" and "Our Ukraine," so that we can decide whether we're going to vote or whether we're going to be statisticians and we're going to listen to what's going on, through the media, and in the session room we're going to have a completely different perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u19	Thank you, Leonid Macarovich. From Julia’s block, Timoshenko is given to Sergey Petrovich to the Chief. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u20	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u21	Turn on Matvienka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u22	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor". Dear colleagues! On behalf of the faction, we claim our willingness to work constructively, openly and solve the problems of choosing the Supreme Council leadership, not behind the scenes, not in the Banks, but in the Supreme Council Hall. And that's the position that the faction shows in all negotiation processes, and we confirm that we're not going to get out of this position. There's nothing dramatic about it so far, and that's what we've come up with at our faction meeting, but unfortunately, the process is unfolding with a very disturbing trend. We condemn the actions that we also see from the Bank's side regarding the desire to buy back, to intimidate, to win over and to raise the necessary number of factions of the Bank's faction of the Bank's "For the One Ukraine!"which today has happened to one of our factions. We condemn the process that today, we believe, according to Banking's instructions, is already unfolding in the media and first on UT-1, about anti-parliamentary sentiments and the negative image of this Parliament, rather than looking for a constructive basis and moving towards solving the problem. We believe that today Parliament is divided into two parts. This is the part of Parliament that understands that national interest is a priority and is willing to serve in the name of that interest by giving in to its ambitions. And that's where the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block stands. And there are factions that are playing today's so-called gold stock, the "Golden Pack", trading the maximum number of possible portfolios. Today, we urge all factions to step down from the platform of conjuncture and self - interest and become a platform of national interest. We support the proposal so that each faction leader can explain from the rostrum the faction, its mood and conduct during the negotiation process. What is more, we suggest extending the negotiation format in order to get rid of cellularity. Once again, I emphasize that obviously we have made a mistake in forming the Presidency, because if there were factions sitting there today, they would answer to the entire Ukrainian people for the faster pace of solving the problem. Once again, I can assure you that the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, is working openly, constructively, and calling for everyone to stand up for this very principle, defending national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u23	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I think it's never too late to fix this, but what's interesting is that it was the will of the Hall, not the will of the Bureau. Dear colleagues! The three factions — the faction of SDPU, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko — have suggested that faction leaders should express within five minutes their view of the processes that are currently taking place. I'm asking the faction leaders if they're ready or not. Peter Mikolaiovich, clear. Vladimir Mikhailovich is ready. Victor Andryovich -- I don't see him, I'm afraid. The Presidency has a proposal to begin. After five minutes, give the word for performances in the order in which we gave the word before that. So it's suggested that we give the first word to the representative of the faction of the Social Democrats who made this proposal, because we have always supported the initiative. Julia Timoshenko will be next. The word is given to Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk. Victor Volodymyrovich, the offer made was from your faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u24	National Deputy of Ukraine (Balgato-mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! Indeed, we are impressed by our work during the last days of that week and by how the work begins today, on Tuesday of this plenary week, which we are in the corner of the deaf. I think that those national MPs who have been elected and promised their electorate to be principled followers of both state-political and socio-economic reforms should be firm enough to agree on and start such a work. It is absolutely clear to all that in order to start such a work, we need to choose the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the last days, including in the media, proposals came from our Ukraine. Indeed, in most parts they are worthy of attention and are able to find a way to understanding and to work constructively to accomplish basic tasks. The position of our faction on how to proceed further and to what extent to take into account the proposals that have been the subject of negotiations in the last days is such. In terms of proposals, and as we know, in the last days, there have been proposals for an agreement between the two largest factions -- between the faction of the unit "For Ukraine!" And by the faction "Our Ukraine," I think it would be an optimal option if the two largest factions agreed and decided how to divide seats in the leadership of the Supreme Council as well as in the leadership of the committees, the positions of the first deputy heads of the committees and other positions that are vacant today and should be occupied by the deputies. But as I go back to the proposals that came from "Our Ukraine," I would like to inform you of the opinion of our faction of the united social Democrats and our party, which is that, of course, we need to resolve issues in a consistent and gradual manner. I'd break these proposals into two parts. The first part is that it is necessary to choose the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if it doesn't work out as we agreed, and what we've decided to do, which is to propose packages of candidates for the headship, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then we can move on to a discussion and resolution of this issue through a so-called large package, which includes not only candidates for positions in the leadership of the Supreme Council, but also candidates for the leadership of the Apparatate, the heads of committees, the first deputies and the chief editor of the newspaper, Voice of Ukraine. And the second part that comes out of the proposal of "Our Ukraine." These are political and socio-economic reforms. Indeed, on this basis a number of factions can be brought together today, most in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in order to move forward and resolve matters. I would like to point out that we support most of the changes, including the Constitution of Ukraine, that are aimed at changing the interaction of existing institutions of power. But I would like to remind you that, in my view and in the view of our faction, these changes to the Constitution lack the very important changes that have been voted on during the U.S. referendum. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm especially looking forward to the lines on the right and on the left. Of course, we can smile at the referendum, including our voters. I don't know how who, and I've been asked at all the meetings: When will national MPs undo the parliamentary immunity? I'm sure most of you have promised to settle this matter once they arrive in this room. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, my colleague, individually, absolutely correct. But changes to article 80 of the Constitution can only be made in this way. And that's why our faction will insist that when it comes to the issues of political and state reform, the changes to the Constitution should come first. And we support the position that the parliamentary majority should form a government. But first, let's support the distinction between parliamentary immunity, the right to dissolve parliament in the event of a permanent parliamentary majority. And that would be very helpful to us today, because the time until the end of the month is not enough, and the faction leaders, the political factions represented by these factions, would be more suited to the agreement, to find a common language. So let us make changes to the Constitution: eliminate parliamentary intrusiveness, foresee parliament’s right to be dissolved, and then move on, and so we will make our own arrangements, and we will certainly choose the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u25	The address is given to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko. The next one is Victor Andryovich Yushchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u26	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! Your Honor! Indeed, it is a sad thing that the situation is that we have been seeing virtually a week in a row the inability of the Supreme Council. But I want people to hear a broadcast of the Supreme Council meeting, which is also questionable whether they are broadcasting or not, to say why this situation has arisen. When I had many meetings in the regions, I warned that the main danger was not in the first ballot, where the list of parties and blocks was in the second ballot, where people voted by name, where they chose MPs, without understanding the political power that those deputies then attach to. And that's why you and I got the result. So the warnings that were echoing became a reality. Today, people in the constituencies in their constituencies have come to Parliament to say that they are for the people who are behind the changes that our country really needs. As a result, people voted, by the way, by tempting gifts and everything else. And today a powerful mass of people have come to Parliament, unable to resist the pressure of the very team that is in power. These are businessmen, officials who have filled the ranks of the faction of the "For the One Ukraine!" and the factions of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] And about 120 people, who promised the voters one and then came and took a completely different position, put together this "cash" in Parliament. This "mushroom" is because today, as a result of such a mistake, nearly 50 by 50 people have broken down in Parliament. The four factions that were perceived as opposition forces from right to left are our Ukraine, the faction of Communists, the faction that I am leading, and the faction of socialists, today have 228 votes for the documents that they have submitted to the Supreme Council Secretariat. In fact, there is a two - vote advantage. Everything else is on the side of President Leonid Kuchma and under his pressure. And that's why there's such a misunderstanding. I want to go to all the colleagues who are part of the factions who were considered to be opposing during the elections. We have 228 votes so far. We don't know, because of the pressure, the bribery, the intimidation, and everything else, how much longer we're going to last. That is why I urge you to unite with regard to the election of the Governing Body of the Supreme Council, as well as other governing bodies appointed by the Supreme Council. I hereby and urgently state that our faction has put all its ambitions behind it, that it does not claim any positions in the Presidium or in the Committees in order for the Quartet to find a common language. I'm talking to the two biggest factions -- "Our Ukraine" and the Communist faction: do the same thing, take your ambitions and misunderstandings a little bit, the opposition that's been going on for decades, to give a whole new quality to the leadership of the Supreme Council. If you and I can't do this, let's be honest with people that we can't do this, and then we don't have to hide for something that scares them while we have most of them. But it may happen that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, it will be gone, and most of it will be on the side of the forces that are representing today in the parliament of Leonid Kuchma. And then there's nothing to complain about, we've missed our time and we're going to have to take a completely different vote. And that's why I'm proposing this. Take a break and hold a meeting of four to make a final deal by cleaning up ambitions. If not, it is necessary, without losing time, to arrange for all six factions together, and to make a proportional distribution of positions among all who can participate. If the opposition forces are not able to do so, then be calm about handing it over to the Kuchma field. Me and our faction won't play these games. If you can do it, let's do it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u27	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrically. The word is given to Viktor Andryovich Yushchenek. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko will be next. Please, Victor Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u28	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! I would also like to do an analysis of the current political situation, which will show what it's like to be seen in the position of our Ukraine. What do we all need today? Why did we come here? One is to create stability in everything, including political stability. How do you build any stability, including political stability? First. The election's over. Elections are made to identify the winners. Any other steps in relation to appointments are taken with a clear reflection of the results of the elections. We lost our first week. We are the national deputies, without a small 450 people sitting in this room, who lost only one week ago that someone wanted to appoint the Supreme Council. And we didn't have an effective negotiation process. We had the effort of a small part of the political forces that had gone through the barrier, to negotiate politics, to find arrangements, but that was not enough. That's why we spent our first week in vain. It's a waste of results, but it's not a waste of political understanding of what's going on. Six political winners who have overcome the political barrier are true, and I would ask that everyone remember that. The other one. I would very much encourage everyone to look only in this room. I especially want to go to the center of the hall. Only in this room is the way that will lead us to make this decision. Only in this! So we insisted from day one: let's try to negotiate all of them, let's start negotiating all of them. Of course, we're different, but let's go through that distance where we can all go. Then someone leaves, then those who take political responsibility remain. But to do that, we need to sit at the table and negotiate. What is seen on our part as a way out of today’s situation? We have to accept the only principles. On Friday, on the understanding of this situation, on behalf of the political faction of every political power, I handed over our formula, as we see the way out of the deadlock. The first name was "Political Protocol," which is now called "the Agreement for Joint Action in the Supreme Council of Ukraine." The goal is to build a stable system, where there is a small part of the problem at the top: Parliament and the appointment of parliamentary staff positions, the decision-making of staff. That's the first one. The second is a government package, where the President of Ukraine is certainly an integral participant in the negotiating process. If we take this big package, we write the stability formula not for summer, not for autumn and not for one year. If we don't have the feeling that we're ready to accept this, we say, let's just throw away stability, take the tactical stability as the basis. Let's limit ourselves to small appointments, committee allocations, and make the first arrangements for what we're going to do in terms of dealing with the Ukrainian government. Let's limit ourselves to that. But anyway, we need to formalize our negotiating relationship. So today I would like to make a statement. Dear friends! There's not much new we can come up with in these days about getting out of the classic stalemate we're in. We presented this agreement. Late yesterday, we had talks with both the communists and the Socialists and the Butts and the Unit for Ukraine. My request is to take a time-out, to cool off, to stop exerting any pressure in the position of national deputies, and in one or two days around this agreement, to find a formula for deciding on the appointments for the governing positions of parliament and committees. If, dear friends, this model is not accepted, I want to say from the faction "Our Ukraine," we're out of the negotiation process. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u29	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. The word is given to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! The political timetable after the election campaign and the recognition of our powers with you gives each of us the opportunity to convince each of us that there are almost three groups of national MPs who, by their size, do not have the ability to solve their own problems with the leadership of the Supreme Council and the leadership of the committees. That's the first one. The other one. You and I are witnessing that the financial and political groups or groups represented in the Supreme Council have both political and regional coloring. They have a situational political vision and will participate in one or the other processes. These situational interests are fragile, but these financial and political groups have stable financial interests. This will constantly destabilize the activities of the Supreme Council, because financial, economic and regional interests are the main interests of the financial and political groups. And putting sticks in wheels on the road to Ukraine's independence, both economic and political, will be for the sake of these interests of financial and political groups. For the honourable people's deputies, I repeat on behalf of my faction friends: we are constantly conducting the same line of economic and political independence of our nation. We are consistent in this principle. Our position is somewhat predictable. Some of you today can predict how the faction will behave, but we are consistent and principled. We reiterate that in this fragile, very fragile situation, it is important how much our first decision regarding the organization of the work of the Supreme Council will ensure our further stable work and eliminate the pressure that the MPs felt and the call of 1994, especially when they adopted the Constitution of Ukraine. You and I are witnessing that this pressure, caused by the situational interests of the authorities, continues to give rise to frightening phenomena that prevent us from making constructive decisions about cooperation that would improve the situation. That's why we're addressing you, dear colleagues. The situation was the same as in the Supreme Council of the previous calling. The Communist faction is now ready for constructive cooperation in the interests of the people of Ukraine and Ukraine as a whole. We are now ready to cooperate with those who are primarily trying to form the Supreme Council as an independent political and legislative body so that you and I can actually be representatives of the people, not on March 31st or March 31st, but from March 31st 2002 to the 2006 elections. This is really a very difficult situation. And so today, we, the faction of Communists, are confident and we hope that the rest of the people's deputies will understand that the faction of Communists is providing its representation in the leadership of the Supreme Council with the stability that each of you, if made the wrong decision, will still have much to think about. Because the fate of each of you will depend on what decision and what word a representative of power will say about you: "punish or be merciful. And over you will be constantly hanging Damocles' sword in the form of a threat, either the launch of the Supreme Council, or your financial interests, or the regional elite and many others, which will indeed disengage the Supreme Council today" and will allow you to manipulate the Supreme Council, which is also a threat to dictatorship and the authoritarian system of government. Today, we call again for negotiations, for positions, for a clear understanding of what will happen next in our work: whether there will be constant disorganization of the Supreme Council or stability. We Communists guarantee that if a package is accepted that the Supreme Council is headed by a representative of the Communist faction, the Supreme Council, particularly with the participation of our faction, will work in a stable manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u31	Thank you. The word is given to Vladimir Mikhailovich Lithuania by the faction "The One Ukraine". The next one is the Frost Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u32	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out immediately that the "One Ukraine" faction has advocated transparent democratic procedures since the beginning of Parliament's work. I'd like to remind you of one example, distinguished national MPs. When representatives of the six factions gathered for the first time, virtually everyone said unanimously that the voting process in Parliament should be open, so that they would know by name the national MPs who took the position. [[B in m in s a l in]] And interestingly, I would like to emphasize, honourable national MPs, that there was such a strange unity. The next morning, we were given a draft ruling that offered a completely different version. This is about arrangements, about principle, about our position. We're ready for the dialogue, we're talking to everyone who wants this dialogue. When the "Our Ukraine" faction was proposed, we went to work together, and we said we were ready to take this document as a basis and discuss it in the interest of the case. At the same time, we offered our own version, in which the urgent, priority tasks to be solved were put first, and then the tools — organizational and personnel — were put to the test. Unfortunately, our proposals regarding bills in economic, social, and other areas have been cooled out. Rather, the issue of the distribution of positions is becoming more and more vivid. So we need to be honest about whether today we are proposing to identify the immediate tasks that we talked about directly during the election campaign, and we are identifying who, the power that specific people are going to organize this work. With this approach, we are ready and open to cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u33	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The word is given to Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u34	Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich! Dear colleagues! In a discussion of a problem, you will inadvertently touch on the speeches of your predecessors. And the discussion is going to go away. As I listen carefully to Vladimir Mikhailovich and other colleagues, I would like to say a few words about this. Of course, we have a transparent process, a transparent procedure. And, of course, the higher the office where the "consultations" are held, the more transparent the procedures become. [[(Laughter) (Applause) (Applause)]] And in the Prime Minister's office, the Vice Prime Minister's office is having these kind of talks: "Do you want to take this enterprise? Do you want me to pay you back or cancel your debt? Then go to the faction of Ukraine. Or they're invited to the D.A.'s office with every file. [[unobsessed, of course]] Today we lost one of the faction members who approached yesterday, literally with tears in his eyes, and said, "They don't give their lives there anymore in Dnipropetrovsk or here in Kiev." It is about your situation and your loved ones. He says, "I have to write an application for entry into the "Ukrainian One" faction. So there's a clear procedure. It's about the essence of things. Consultations are under way. And this is a really important process. [[I mean, talking to voters first.]] For many years we have sought to combine the efforts of various political or ideological forces that advocate the need to preserve the sovereignty of the State and to improve the welfare, life, and well - being of the people. If representatives of Movement and Communists, PRPs, and socialists sit together at the negotiating table today, this is already an important success, and it is a good thing that this is happening. It was not easy to accomplish that. Talk about how we need to go to rapid economic reforms, adopt the Tax Code and all that -- that's right, but we need to bear in mind that in today's system of power, all these laws will never work for the interests of society, they will work for the interests of the clans, for individual officials, for individual groups of people. You can't let that happen. In this sense, I address the representatives of the "For the One Ukraine" union first. Yes, you have come to Parliament in various ways, but people have chosen you, and you must be respected for that. You have to respect yourself, but you have to respect yourself. Do not be able to trample on your dignity, for you will never be MPs; you will not feel free! You'll do what an official who didn't go through the election campaign will tell you. He doesn't care, by the way. He'll be in charge of you. And you will not answer to the voters for the implementation of your program, for the commitments you made at the meetings. What, then, is suggested by the group that is working on the draft treaty that Victor Andrievich Yushchenko spoke about? It's about changing the system of power. In order to be accountable to the people, the government should be formed by Parliament, not by one person, in order to strengthen the functions of local authorities. Because the self - control principle is ruined in the last election, and you know it. Today officials have been placed in the local representative bodies, in the council, and they will vote as the manager of the administration will tell them. That's not supposed to happen. We suggest making appropriate legislative changes, holding elections to the Supreme Council, and to local representative bodies at the district, city and district levels according to the proportional system. Because it's not normal when, let's say, in Lviv or in other cities, 70 percent of voters voted for Our Ukraine, but their own authority was created by the opposite political power because it wasn't chosen, but was actually appointed by the respective administrations. [[I'm conditionally calling it]] This is not a normal situation. I don't mean to be reprimanded by one or the other. We are deadlocked if we continue this same criminal line -- criminal in a political sense. We're going to destroy the state, we're going to lose perspective. Just by changing the system of power, we're going to solve all those issues that concern people, those issues that are, by the way, covered in the draft treaty, they're also about the Tax Code, and the pension reform, and a lot of other important documents. You don't have to speculate with the treaty, with its contents. The UT-1 programs have been known for two or three days by our deputies from the Jedu faction. They talk about the content of the treaty, how promising it is and so forth, not to mention that it is their agreement that the water department is our one: either the implementation of the results of a false referendum, or the democratization of social life. Finally, I want to say. You don't have to call or call voters with words about canceling your immunity. Let's do it simpler. The authors of the referendum are Victor Medvedchuk and Alexander Volkov. You're going to have to file an application for a Supreme Council review of your immunity waiver. And the Supreme Council will take a decision to abolish your immunity, and then acquit others, and everything will be in place. [[If necessary, and clarification of the Constitution will do]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies! In fact, the three factions came up with a proposal to allow the political forces to continue consultations today. The Bureau would like to advise you: Within 12 hours 30 minutes, do you think you will be able to announce a recess or by 16 hours? Up to 16 years? Should we vote or not? Then we agree that the break will take up to 16 hours. Victor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk asks for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u36	Ukraine's Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I have always treated you with great respect as a politician and as a parliamentarian. I will try to make sure that this respect is fully sustained in my reply. I would like to remind you personally that under your headship on June 28, 1996, the Constitution, which contains article 80, was adopted. And you, as no one else, should know that the abolition of immunity, in fact, the MP's immunity, cannot have an individual place. To that end, part three of article 80 must be repealed. I was very displeased to hear similar words from your lips that spoke, I am sure, all over Ukraine and testify to your ignorance of the Constitution. Study, please, and victory will follow you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u37	It was suggested that we discuss whether to announce a break of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes or 16 hours. Please sign up. Five minutes to talk. And then let's define by voting. Please record from the scene. The word is given to Kravchenk Mikoli Vasilovich. The next one is the Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u39	Please turn on the mic of Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u40	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I think we discussed thoroughly all the faction proposals that were made during the break announced for consultations last Friday. Our faction's proposal was to sit at the negotiating table and finally solve the problem, offer specific ballots. Therefore, we support the proposal to give the time needed for the final negotiations and to hold them in 16 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u41	Thank you. The word is given to Alexander the Turk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u42	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. Dear colleagues! Our faction is ready to work all the time. But I think that both our faction and most of the people in this room are interested not in the process itself, but in the outcome. God forbid we can go out at 4:00 and propose specific draft regulations. So we support the proposal to take a break until 16 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u43	The word is given to the National Deputy Mazurenko, a Social Democratic faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u44	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 142, Odessa region]] Please pass the word to Medvedchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u45	Turn on the microphone of Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u46	The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Your Honor! I have an offer to announce a recess by 16 hours or even by 10 a.m. tomorrow. But there's another proposition. [[This, I think, will add fertility to the next negotiation.]] We have the Presidency that we have chosen by adopting the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I propose that negotiations between factions' leaders take place under the leadership and chairmanship of the members of the Bureau or the heads of the preparatory group. All negotiations may be held at the request of the subjects of the negotiations as much as possible, but we must make some decisions, the result of these negotiations here, in this room, or at 16 o’clock today, or tomorrow at 10 o’clock. So this process I propose to lead the Presidency that we have chosen. Members of the Bureau should preside and hold meetings as long as necessary. There are faction leaders, there's the Bureau -- let's work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u47	Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, Our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u48	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! You can take a break by 12.30 and 16 hours, you can do it by tomorrow, but we don't see any results yet. I'd like us to step out of the principle that our leader Victor Yushchenko has proclaimed: the conversation should go between the six leaders of the MP factions. Six factions are doomed to work together for four years, and we need to look for consensus, sit down and talk about the Head, the intercessors, the committees, and work. Otherwise, we see, that's not gonna happen. Once again, I want to emphasize that we have been chosen by the people. Six factions have to agree, reject ambitions, and resolve issues. [[I support what Julia Timoshenko said.]] After a break of 16 hours, leave with a collective decision. Don't come out. Sit down, faction leaders, over there, and we'll ask you questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u49	Thank you. The word is given to Alexandre Markovich Bandurci. The next one is Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u50	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 176, Kharkiv Region]] "The only Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! All of our work over almost two weeks consists of breaks. The voters are already asking, "What do you do there?".. And it's hard to explain what our differences are. A block of four claims to have great consistency and consistency. Let these parties put out their bags, and we'll look at them. We're rejecting calls for an endless "nothing Sunday" to one break. Let's work! That's why we came here. There's a block of four that has its own bags. And the leader of the Communists and the leader of the Socialists and the leader of our Ukraine claimed that they had proposals. We're ready to look at them. Let's keep working! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u51	The word is given to Boki Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u52	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues! As members of the Socialist Party, we support the proposal for negotiations by 16 hours. But these should be effective negotiations. And I would very much like these negotiations to be about the main thing, so that their participants don't play factions or anything else. To those who want to play this, I would like to remind the people's wisdom: the sea is great, and the water for drinking is not good. [[I thought we were a big faction and so forth.]] Ukraine’s and the people’s interests should be at the heart of the matter, not of one person who today catches everything that swims in the water, wanting to preserve himself first. You, faction leaders, have every hope. The people are looking at us, and we don't have to touch the water in our feet!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u53	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Dear colleagues! The time taken for discussion is exhausted. But several deputies insist on proposals. Let us give the floor to a few? Come on, 30 seconds. The MPs are asking. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. Then there's Matthew. Please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u54	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Chairman! I believe that the Supreme Council should control the negotiations that our factions are leading. So the breaks should not last more than two hours. And after every two hours, faction leaders should report to the Supreme Council what they stood for and what the outcome of the negotiations are. Only then will we be able to reach agreement. If we give them very much time to negotiate, none of this will be as it was last week. So two hours -- and their report, two hours -- and their report. Then we'll come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u55	Anatoly Matvienko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u56	Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor". Your Honor! Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich! I urge you to do your duty to organize the work of the Supreme Council. And so I would like to announce now not until 16 hours, but for half an hour or 40 minutes, to gather the leaders of all factions and clearly agree on the organization of work today, taking into account what Igor Rafailovich said. [[How much will it take?]] We don't have time for rest today. So please carry out your mission, taking into your own hands the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, and make it clear that the next meeting will be held. There's got to be information for each of the heads of the faction from this rostrum. And turn on the broadcast across Ukraine so everyone can hear what's going on here and how. Obviously, this is how the Supreme Council will help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u57	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Nigga's the last one, and we'll determine by vote. Please turn on the microphone of the Black People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u58	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear colleagues! The heads of factions were usurped by the authorities in the Supreme Council. They can't make a deal with each other. In this regard, I have a radical offer: to lock them all in a separate room, not to eat, to give only mineral water, and not to let them out until they agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u59	Let us at least feed Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u60	And then we will choose the Head of the Supreme Council as elected Pope of Rome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-21-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, two proposals have been made. Since we must determine whether we vote, we will do so. But I think that if the first break is slightly more than two hours, Igor Rafailovich's proposal will in principle be implemented. Please prepare for the vote. Who, in order to break off the announcement by 16 hours and invite the faction leaders to meet in the conference room at 11.30 p.m. with Adam Ivanovich's participation, please vote. [[Yes, the Presidency has been defined.]] "For" - 344. The decision is made. Please listen to the announcement. At 11 o’clock 30 minutes, faction leaders appear at the meeting. [[In order that we may not search for anyone]] If there is no leader of the faction, we will announce it through the media and demand an explanation. The next meeting will begin at 4 p.m. A subgroup of Konovaluka meets at 11 o’clock for 30 minutes in the third floor of the building. [[subgroup 3 of the working group]] I'm reminding you, the Konovaluka subgroup, to define a materially technical basis for the activities of the National Deputies. Thank you.
