ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:02:29]] -421 registered. There are 421 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National MPs, today, December 17th, are 40 years old to our fellow national MP, Yvchenk. Let's welcome the Jubilee. Let's wish for all kinds of good things. [[Applause]] Please listen to another announcement. In harmony with article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it is also authorized to represent the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary faction. [[united]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, applications and messages. I'm asking the factions and groups to submit their statements. In the meantime, if there's no objection, I'll announce the questions that have come to the Secretariat. Is there no objection? A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Timoshenko and Pavlovski to Prime Minister Januković Viktor Fedorovich of Ukraine for not being satisfied with the reply of the previous government to the parliamentary request, to taking steps to preserve the VAT collective "Avialina Ukraine" and to prevent monopolism in the field of air transport. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:46]] For-163 Decision taken. Vladimir Anishuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the socio-economic situation of the Beresov region of Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:05:13]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the problems of the Kyrovograd Institute for the Production and Training of the Blind. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:39]] For 197 Decision taken. Oleg Humenyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing measures related to the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters in the Ternopil region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:08]] For-163 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Kadenuk, Tanjuk, Chubarov, School, Toločka and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to accelerate the financing of urgent counter-accidents on objects of historic construction of the central part of the city of Lviv, listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:45.]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Lesia Tanjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure to execute court decisions regarding the payment of salaries to teachers of the Polish music school named Lysenka. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:15]] For-164 Decision taken. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the insufficient provision of general education institutions and special boarding schools by textbooks. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:45]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Ukrainian Minister of Health in connection with his dissatisfaction with the request for a review of the activities of the Health Administration of the Lviv District State Administration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:18]] For 155 Decision taken. Oleg Tsarov to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the threat of termination of educational institutions in the village of Soloné in the Dnipropetrovsk region because of their lack of funding. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:51]] For-167 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Dobkin, Ioff, Osika and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the legal evaluation of the publication "The River of Rostauvica" in the newspaper "The Village News". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:20]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Alexander Baranowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds of the decision of the Office of the Military Prosecutor of the Bilocerkow garrison to end the criminal case on the "Odessa Kiev" route. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:51]] For 122 Decision taken. Edouard Gurwicz to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unsatisfactory actions of Odessa’s law enforcement authorities in cases of the disappearance of the head of the Kyiv district administration of Odessa, Igor Svoboda, and the head of the Mesikon administration, Sergey Varlamov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:25]] For-188. Decision taken. Andrija Shkila to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons for the disconnection of the heat supply organizations of the Sambir district of Lviv district from the gas supply. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:53]] For-162 162, decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, a repeat request for information on the number of official residences of the President of Ukraine and the cost of maintaining them for the State Budget of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:22]] For 184 "For" is 184, the decision is made. Georgia Kruczkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the reaction of the Ukrainian government to the unfriendly remarks made by the Ambassador of the United States of America in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:50]] For-123 "For" is 123, the decision is made. Yuri Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in response to a dissatisfaction with the request for the removal of debt from social payments to the population of the Barish region and the city of Berezan in the Kyiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:20]] For-141 "For" is 141, the decision is made. Paul Matvienka is the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine and Minister of Finance of Ukraine to award subsidies to the Lugina Village Council of the Žitomir Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:12:48]] For-119 "For" - 119, decision taken. Anatolia Kukoba to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, regarding the payment of the debt for energy services of institutions and organizations financed from local budgets. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:18]] For 124 "For" is 124, the decision is made. Peter Simonenka is head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, regarding the violation by the Donetsk Regional Branch of the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property in the transfer of leases to the Mariupol State Seaport Society with limited liability. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:54]] For-174 Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka to the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting on the air of the First National Documentary Channel, which contained hidden advertising for drugs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:27]] For 240 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Yavorovsky and others to the Head of the Supreme Council on the early termination of the parliamentary powers of the Ukrainian national deputies, which combine the positions of the national deputy with those of the executive branch. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:01]] For 206 Decision taken. Paul Žebrovsky to the Minister of Economics and European Integration of Horoshkovsky on the transfer of the Andrushew alcohol plant of the Žitomir region to the balance sheet of the GDP of the HKG. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:36]] For 139 Decision taken. 45 minutes for the performance of authorized factions and groups. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Pinzenik of the faction "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Demiochin. Yushchenka, I'm sorry, but it was written here by Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you in your position at the current moment at which the faction "Our Ukraine" stands today. I am convinced that there are extraordinary circumstances in the Ukrainian Parliament today, and we suggest that we discuss them very carefully. First. Three weeks ago, we were looking at one question in these walls about the persecution of one of the businessmen. Three weeks ago, he left Ukraine and his mother said to him at the station: “Son, never come back to this country again. And her son said, "This time I won't listen to you, I'll come back to this country someday." This is what is happening today in the Ukrainian Parliament. Either we have a chance to give millions of people a chance to think about their behavior and return to Ukraine, or we will continue to pursue a policy of isolation. My first question, dear friends to you, is how did it happen in this country that the apolitical, even in African countries, the apolitical institution of the National Bank by some political force is included in the political distribution portfolio. Dear friends! The National Bank lives under special status. His head is chosen for five years and has special immunity. Why? Because the National Bank of any country serves the interests of stability, financial stability, human stability, business stability, stability for the state. As soon as politics escapes the central bank, as soon as politics is added to the influence of its currency assets, we return with you in 1993. So our request regarding the situation around the National Bank. First. To look at this issue in the walls of the Supreme Council in full order. To invite the head of the National Bank to this rostrum, to listen to his report, to give an assessment, and to make an appropriate political decision. Without that, dear friends, we can't give a sound political signal to the Ukrainian society that's going on at the National Bank, which is making investments that are doing with financial stability. Will our currency reserves work tomorrow for the political power to go to the next election, or will we ensure stability? I would ask the honourable national deputies to make the appropriate decisions for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u3	People's Deputy Demyohin of the People's Rule Group. Prepare Petra Mikolaiovich. Who? Now. Yes, Petra Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u4	Respectable leaders of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We are at the threshold of the country's State budget today and will soon consider an economic and social development programme. Our parliamentary group once again refers to a topic that, in a sense, does not go out of the mouth of all — voters and MPs alike. It is the return of citizens who were in the former USSR Saving Bank. During 2002, the population was paid, approximately as much as the previous five years combined, but the total payments did not exceed one hundred per cent. Thus, you can imagine the prospect of saving yourself to the population. A special commission on the search for sources of lost deposits was established and held its first meeting in November. The legislative proposals of the working group at the Cabinet of Ministers are known. The People's Government Group proposes to use the process of decommissioning, i.e. the privatization process, as a source of compensation for these contributions. Indeed, the overall monetary potential of privatization is comparable to that of the population. The extent of ownership and ownership of the State allows the programme to be implemented. Only at the end of the last week did we hear the report of the Fund of the State of Ukraine, and we came up with an idea of the problems that we have today in the privatization process. First of all, it is necessary to plan and implement the assets fund, our deputy corps and Government within the framework of the State programme for economic and social development and the privatization programme, which is under consideration today. We propose that in the privatization programme, investment-attractive public property facilities whose privatization will ensure that the necessary funds are made available to achieve the goal of making contributions to the population. In particular, facilities whose share is less than 60 per cent in the State should be privatized. Provide for privatization activities to improve the financial and economic situation of enterprises and increase their investment attractiveness. Provide for open competitions for the sale of certain objects. Mainly, the funds from the sale of these facilities should be allocated for the financing of protected articles and provided for in the draft State budget for these funds to be paid to the population. We believe that these actions will have positive consequences. States will receive billions of dollars of money, savings will be restored to the population, purchasing capacity will be increased, debt will be repaid for energy, utilities. The People's Government Group believes that these activities will be the main event of both the Supreme Council and the Government for the following year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u5	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Alexander Aleksandrovitch Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u6	Dear colleague! Simonenko, the Communist faction. The political situation that exists in the State is reflected in its own and in the walls of Parliament. The crisis is evident, also evident, by the political forces fighting for power transfer and spheres of influence. My MP's request for the port of Mariugal is the brightest of all evidence. The largest complex is transferred by gangs to the GSO, whose statutory capital is 16,000 bracelets. Therefore, the media has shown our actions as destructive, which are allegedly directed against the interests of the State. Once again, the distinguished voters, the Communist faction today advocates the interests of our working people and opposes the National Bank of Ukraine becoming a “deriban” instrument, as some representatives say. clans in the hands of specific political or oligarchic structures. But, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to today. Today, on 17 December, both the mass of Chernobyl and those who protested two years ago against the closure of the nuclear power plant will go out on the streets of the city of Kiev to express their protest, which, so to speak, characterizes precisely and by defending its interests, characterizes the actions of the authorities to close the nuclear power plant. These are the consequences of political decisions. Two years ago, the Communist faction warned that the Chernobyl nuclear power plant could not be shut down. Today, financing issues were not resolved, namely, the construction of the sarcophagus and its reliability in protection, so to speak, of our people from the consequences of the environmental disaster, the problems of electricity generation and compensation for the loss of 5 per cent of the total amount of electricity produced, are the problems associated with the personnel. People are travelling outside Ukraine, and the training of one middle-level specialist is between $50,000 and $300,000. This is also because the reactor has up to 2008 fresh nuclear fuel and the possible consequences of losing control of these processes. Once again, the faction of communists, supporting the demands of Chernobyl and Slavotic residents, declares that the actions of the President and those of political forces that have supported the West’s closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant are, today, otherwise, criminal, not entitled to characterize. That's why I call on you, representatives of the Bolsheviks. With your hands, the problems that in many are criminalized before our people are solved. We encourage you to reflect today on the fact that, as a result of a decision taken two years ago, tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs. This is an environmental new disaster for Ukraine today. It's a professional departure. The West has deceived Ukraine and has not compensated for the construction at the Hmelnicka and Rowen nuclear power plant. We therefore call on the people's deputies to act today, measuring their actions with conscience, not the dictatorship of the oligarchs and the various financial groups that influence a certain part of the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u7	Alexander Alexanderus Frost of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Today, the issue of the release of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine is included in the agenda. That's one thing. The second detail or circumstance is that the head of the National Bank is in the hospital. According to our legislation, it is not possible to release a person who is on medical leave. And he's a citizen just like all Ukrainian citizens. I refer to the presiding officer, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, as representatives of the majority faction. Consider this situation, and we must act only within the limits defined by law. I'm not going to talk about the reasons for the inclusion and the pressure on his consideration. I think everyone here understands. It's not even about the National, it's not about the interests of Ukraine, it's about how you get angry with the President's Administration, all branches of power to do what they say, either the head of the Administration or, let's say, the President. Here I asked our lawyer, Colonel Karnauha, to examine the legal side of the matter. There is article 344 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, "Involvement in the activities of a statesman". The pressure on the head of the national bank, the attempt to force him to write a statement, and that was indeed, I can testify that this was indeed so, it is a responsibility that the Criminal Code provides for three years of imprisonment. If this is done by means of a position of service, it will take up to five years. I understand that this sounds like a fantasy in our Ukrainian Parliament and in the Ukrainian system of power, but we'll be there by the time people are responsible for these things. Yes, it is. So that's the offer. Well, first of all, the Attorney General's Office, even after hearing this report, either by taking a transcript or on the basis of a request from the National MP, is obliged either to file a criminal case for this matter or to refuse to commit a criminal offence. But it's a legal procedure that takes time. What should we do today? If you insist on considering this issue today, despite all the circumstances that I have spoken today under full procedure: speech, discussion, and decision making. If this is about the substantive consideration of the issue today of voting, then by the ad hoc procedure -- please include it in the order of the day. If you want to change the Counting Commission, to include the issue of changing the Counting Commission and many other details that have to be fully respected, then we can say that a decision is being taken that is close to the law, although it has no legal basis. You have experience I refer to most of those who organize this whole matter with the President's Administration, forging the seals of the Supreme Council, forging orders of the Supreme Council -- keep in mind, such crimes will still be investigated. It's time. I'd like to warn you so we don't do anything stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u9	Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish from the Democratic Initiative Group. Please prepare Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u10	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The tragedy of the petty yoke has led me to this performance, since there are eternal themes for Ukrainians that cannot disappear from their genetic memory, which are material for building a nation of the Ukrainian State. We live with you during the '70s of famine, '32-33, '80s, '80s of famine, '21-33, '55 years of famine, '47. These are the most noticeable black milestones on the long path of the smooth destruction of our people by the totalitarian steel regime. In three stages, death was taken by various estimates of between 10 million and 15 million Ukrainian lives, the left hand side of death, which plunged the nation's gene pool, fell to hunger in the 32rd and 33rd years, which became the greatest tragedy of the Ukrainian nation. The hungry destroyed the psychology of the Ukrainians, destroying their morals, their age - old customs, their worldly perceptions, and making them humble, indifferent to the entire crowd, who are easily assimilated. Man lives as long as he is remembered. The nation remains a nation as long as it remembers its history. At the time of the genocide, not only humans were destroyed but also the memory of them, the history of the Ukrainians being silenced and forgotten, was replaced by the history of the Soviet Ukraine. The Bolsheviks calculated correctly: Without their own past and future, the Ukrainians forgot that they were Ukrainians. During the 1 - year period, Ukraine lost as many Ukrainians as the Jews in all the countries in the Third Reich in hellfire during World War II. The terrible fate of the Jewish ghetto dwells in the heart of every Ukrainian. In Kiev today, ask about the tragedy of the Ukrainian people. Most people don't know anything about hunger in the '30s. Not only did the Ukrainians not force the entire world to acknowledge their tragedy, as the Jews did. They did not fully realize it. As early as 1998, the diaspora effort was acknowledged by the U.S. Congress and then by the International Commission of Jurists. Officially, Ukraine still calls famine a tragic event, all that has been done to rekindle the memory of it, similar to the quiet and vague seasons, and the modest monument in Michael’s Square. Not surprisingly, the most famous book on famine was written by a foreigner, Robert Conkvest, and its publication was printed in an independent Ukraine only in 1993, at the expense of diaspora. Ukrainian famine studies are conducted only by a host of enthusiasts. One of the most important features of social development that is rarely mentioned is that dramatic events sometimes become the source of the power of the nation, its spiritual rebirth, and the primary source of statehood. The Holocaust for the Jews is not only an integral part of their national consciousness but also a source of unity that has become an incentive for the formation of their own state in modern times. The famine for the Ukrainians must be not only a symbol of the national tribulation but also a factor in the claim of real independence, which remains or is not an empty sound. Finally, if we start talking about famine, sooner or later the question arises: Who is to blame? The Germans apologized to the Jews for their parents ’ actions. Who will apologize to the Ukrainians? If you and I are representatives of the Ukrainian people, let us break the silence of that. His genocide. I'm done. And in the name of our dead ancestors, we will accept this tragedy as the source of the restoration of the nation, its spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u11	Finish!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u12	Oneness and an incentive for further development for our offspring.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u13	The word from the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko Julius Timoshenko is to prepare for Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to address the members of the majority factions. Counting that today such a phenomenon on a day that does not provide for a vote, we have such conviction that today the issue of the change of head of the National Bank will still be pressing. We know how aggressively we've been gathering people from most of the nights, taking them off planes and forcing them to be in the hall today. And that's why I'm calling the deputies of the majority. We know that there are bank managers among you, and there are serious industrialists, entrepreneurs, there are enough honest people among you. And so, we know that under certain circumstances, you cannot today resist a certain commission, but you should have knowledge. You know, the S.T.B.B. Journalists, Business Weeks, did a full-blown research on what was being prepared at the National Bank. I want to tell you again that 3 and a half billion that were to be converted into 700 million dollars from the national reserves of our National Monetary Bank, they will certainly be taken if we can't keep Stelmac in this position. We respect Sergey Tihypak, we know he won't initiate similar operations, but the fact that he won't be able to resist such an assignment is understandable. What does that mean? Three and a half billion empty funds, commercial banks are forced to receive them, and they are forced to reserve 20 percent of this huge amount of living assets. It's practically the end of those banks that are going to take this procedure. After that, we know that 5 to 7 percent of the nominal is due on loan to NAC Naftogaz. And they're nominally real, they're alive, they're going to be driven out of Ukraine, and 700 million dollars is the total destabilization of the entire financial system of Ukraine. I want you to understand that today, if we stop this procedure, it doesn't guarantee that in a month or a half, the same thing will happen, but without our knowledge. Who's behind this? Without the President's mandate, this cannot be done, but the President remains and will rape the new leadership of the National Bank. That's the 29th person on the SDPU party list. [[united]] I want to speak to the majority deputies. Are you prepared today to be used as a tool to give these people $700 million? Please find ways to fight this. Opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u15	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u16	I'm not gonna let that happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u17	Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I invite you to the word of Anatoly Rahansky from the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u18	Anatoly Rahansky, European constituency, Trudova Ukraine. "A call from the deputy faction of political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Urban Ukraine." Honourable National Deputies, six years later, Ukraine became a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, making a commitment to legal reform in the State in accordance with international standards. The deadlines for fulfilling these obligations were two years ago. Representatives of the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, who form a permanent delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly, are forced to demean themselves at its sessions for the untimely performance of the commitments made. Until now, the Supreme Council has not passed laws that remain in the legal field of our obligations. It's civil, civil, procedural, criminal and procedural codes, the law on the Attorney General's Office, the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or minority languages. On December 11, this year, the parliamentary assembly monitoring committee, which I had to attend, discussed the status of compliance with Ukraine’s commitments to the Council of Europe, making a decision in the first half of the following year to bring the matter to a session of the Parliamentary Assembly with a proposal: in case of failure to do so, to make a hard decision to our State. That's why we're asking the government, the profile committees, to urgently process these bills and not later than February next year to bring them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine." The other one. Using the remaining time, let me announce the statement of the interfractional group "Deputy Chernobyls". The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, intends to suspend some articles of Ukraine's current laws on social protection in Ukraine for the year 2003. In view of article 22 of the Constitution, I believe that such a decision is possible only in the event of war or an extraordinary economic situation in the country. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, at the request of the National Deputies, ruled on the unconstitutional suspension of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Chernobyl. CHAS’s disaster fighters, as well as war participants, have protected the world from disaster at the cost of their lives. That's why we're addressing the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs. In the 2003 draft budget, provision was made for compensation and relief payments to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster and repayment of their debts in previous years to protect the interests of war participants and other categories of citizens. On the other hand, we recommend that national MPs not take a sin per soul or vote in favour of such a budget. This address please consider as a request to the Cabinet and the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a decision. It is commendable that the new Prime Minister from the first days of his work has taken care of Chaes' problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, all those who applied were given the opportunity to speak. Let us turn to Tuesday’s meeting schedule. I am announcing a draft order for the release of Stelmach from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine in connection with his application and the draft decision for the appointment of Tihypco to the National Bank of Ukraine. There's a procedure. Five minutes out of procedure, please log in. Let's take a look at the board. Five minutes out of procedure. Everybody calm down, we'll work in normal law. All of it! National Deputy Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko I'm asking everyone to calm down and work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u20	Please give the floor to the national MP, Sas Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u21	National Deputy Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u22	Thank you, Eugene Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the need to refer to the Rules before we move on to a specific issue. The Rules state the following, part 2 of article 3.2.1: "The decision of the Supreme Council shall be taken only on matters brought into the agenda of the Supreme Council, except in cases established by the Rules. In the event of a violation of this requirement, the decision is invalid. In accordance with our Rules, chapter 5.2 of the procedure for dealing with the issue of discharge from the office of officials who elect and appoint the Supreme Council is not yet dismissed. Therefore, ad hoc decisions should be made or the procedure already mentioned in the Rules should be followed in accordance with article 3.4. 1, that is, by full procedure, full discussion of issues, speeches, reports, reports and any subsequent requirements provided for in the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Roman Zvaric, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to draw your attention to, in a mild sense, the inadequacy of the legal dimension of the question before us. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the President's application, which he allegedly resubmits, refers to Stelma's claim that he's asking for resignation at his own request. The President's submission, which was previously made, did not refer to this statement, i.e. the President then initiated the procedure himself, when in this case the President agrees that the procedure is initiated by Stemach himself. So essentially, the question that we have before us is fundamentally different from the question that was before us when we were looking at it. So the inadequacy in the President's statement is that he's allegedly resubmitting his application, referring to a statement by Stelmach when it wasn't in the previous submission. Therefore, whatever the case, it should be noted that the President of Ukraine, in a mild sense, misrepresented his application. That's the first one. Second, because in fact, the question of another, it required.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u25	Regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u26	I'll be right with you. I ask you to listen to it to the end, because what I say is still important by procedure. In fact, the question is, because it's different. This required another consideration at the meeting of the profile committee. We have a document signed by the chairman of this committee, from which it is not known whether the matter has been considered on the committee or not. So I would ask that there be a formal ruling of a committee that we don't have right now, and there's just a signature under some document of the committee's own head.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u27	Turn off the microphone. National Deputy Sirenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u28	Please give the floor to the leader of the Communist faction Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u29	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u30	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We are discussing the matter with you in connection with the statement made by the head of the National Bank of Stelmacha. And it seems to me that we should be with you today, considering this application, inviting you to speak to Stelmacha, listening to him, asking questions, and expressing our thoughts, viewpoints, and assessments regarding the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine today. Previous information - Stella is in the hospital. So without his involvement or in accordance with the Code of Labour, and according to the morals of the people's deputies, we should put the matter with you. And he'll come back from the hospital, and then we'll ask the person who runs the National Bank, from this rostrum, to explain why she wrote that statement. So I suggest you go back to that question when he leaves the hospital. If he's not hospitalized right now, then he should be in this rostrum, and we should listen to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u31	National MP Slabenko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u32	I'd like to give Kendzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u33	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u34	Jaroslav Kenzior, People's Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! About the inability to consider today the question of the release of Vladimir Stelmach from a political standpoint was raised by Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko. The impossibility of considering this issue from a financial and economic point of view was very clearly stated by Julia Timoshenko. I'd like to pay attention to the moral and ethical side of this hearing. This was also discussed here. I'd like to refer to the majority candidate for the possible vacancy of Sergey Tihypak. If Mr. Sergey Tihypak has at least a little bit of decency and he knows that the head of the National Bank is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u35	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u36	is lying in a hospital and is essentially blocked in connection with hearing those issues of the Supreme Council, so I would feel that Sergio Tihypco should go out to the rostrum and ask myself not to consider the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Here we go. Positions are clear. Allow me to provide you with appropriate information. I think you all know very well, let's act as we are called here to the Rules. According to the Rules, as well as the General Orders of the Daily Relevant Session, i.e. the Second Session, the Supreme Council provides for such provisions in the Regulations on the agenda of the relevant session, including those scheduled for the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council and the 4th Assembly. Please take the last page and read it. That is, similar issues have been considered to be included in the agenda since the arrival of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the relevant submission and draft decision. That's the first one. The other one. The presence in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of an application by the President of Ukraine for the release of a person from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine is an appropriate constitutional basis for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of this matter. The fact that this person is in the hospital cannot be an obstacle to the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s constitutional powers. The decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to release a person from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine can in fact be carried out in accordance with the legislation on work only after the period of temporary incapacity has ended. I had a conversation with Vladimir Seminovich Stelmach yesterday. He said he had a proposition and his position here to figure out who did more harm to him: whether "most" or "minority" that didn't allow him to say. Dear colleagues! Let's listen calmly! That he would not come to the meeting and asked to consider the matter in this absence. A similar situation had taken place, I would like to stress once again, with regard to the deputy head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine of Greece, when, during his temporary disability, the Supreme Council had decided on his dismissal from the post of judge. Therefore, dear fellows! But National MP Sass is right that when we come to a decision today, we need to identify ourselves and vote in order for us to make a decision on these two issues today. So I'm voting on a proposal to make a decision on two of these issues today. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:50:32]] For 231 For -231, the decision is made. In factions, please give. I'll have the factions, please. I did all right. Next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u38	You don't give a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u39	I'll give it to you, come on! Please, I'll give it to you. By procedure, we've just spoken, calm down! I'll bet you a vote. In accordance with the proposal of two factions -- "Our Ukraine" and "Julia Timoshenko" -- I announce a break of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's keep working. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs, we'll continue our work. The break was announced on the proposal of two factions, the Yulia Timoshenko bloc and our Ukraine. I would ask, which of these two factions will tell you what the outcome of the break is? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u41	What decision have you reached? What are you suggesting? Dear colleagues, please sit down. Turn on the stand mike. Carmazine from two factions, please give me the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u42	Dear People's Deputies, Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine, Solidarity, the Party of Protectors of the Homeland. The honourable national deputies, now two factions who have advised me, have authorized me to declare the brutal violations of the Rules that have now taken place. First, before the start of the vote, none of the deputies were declared missing, for what reasons. The question was actually made in the agenda, not on Thursday, as provided for in the Rules, but today, without a vote on ad-hoc. Moreover, I think that the national deputy Chikal, who is far beyond the country, will be greatly surprised, and God give him health, for he is being treated, and the national deputy of Zvigilski, and the national deputy of Hara, and the national deputy of Zinchenko, and Homutinsky, and Zhivago, and Suškevitch, and Mirimsky. So eight people who voted, Miriamsky, they say, are now coming up, seven people who voted in favour of this decree, but they weren't here today. In addition, we introduced Mirimsky. They removed Mirimsky from the list. So, seven people. Seven men. Hello, this is always the way it's supposed to be done. So, seven people who are now, as voters, are not actually there. So I turn to Vladimir Mikhailovich with this proposal: Vladimir Mihajlovich, first of all, we ask for strict compliance with the Rules, second of all, we request a criminal offence for trying to eliminate Ukraine's financial system. What is happening today is an attempt to eliminate and destroy financial stability in Ukraine. Otherwise it's not to be taken for granted. In addition, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, we very much respect you as a leader, you have taken significant steps towards democracy over the past six months. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we would like you to announce that the factions have ceased, that the faction of ZAEDU is the first, that is the requirement of the Rules to be implemented. And we would ask you, in principle, to act in a clear manner, to allow the Rules of Procedure to now vote and not to interrupt this session, because in such a politicization, we trust you very much, but please tell us where Mr. Stelma's written statement that he is asking for a question to be considered in his absence? What's more, the issue of the National Bank of Ukraine report. Where's the letter? If I tell you what he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u43	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u44	I'm finishing up now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u45	Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u46	Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, you have witnessed the fact that the National Deputy Volkov on the First Channel has stated that he has written with him, Stelma, an application for release. Isn't that right, Alexander Mikhailovich, he wrote to you? Why did Stemach write a statement with you? I want to find out here in the hall. Why didn't he write to me, why didn't he write to the other deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u47	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs. You can see the suggestions that have been made. I want to give you information. Calm down! There are no two rules, calm down! Then study the Rules first, then you will perform! Dear colleagues, I would like to inform once again all the factions' leaders, all the national deputies and those present in the session room that we agreed last Thursday after the lengthy consultations that today will address this issue. That's the first one. The other one. I want you to calm down! The other one. Regarding the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure. I would like to draw the attention of the Regulatory Committee to the fact that there is also now a violation of the gross and cynical Rules. For some reason the Regulatory Committee doesn't notice this, it works selectively, it's not the first, I want to talk about the work of the Regulatory Committee. The other one. Third, more specifically, respected colleagues. Third. You all know very well that this is a question that is only in the right plane. We're giving him political coloring right now. Fourth, dear colleagues. Questions. Four. The question of getting into the agenda is endured, and you all know it perfectly well, on the legal ground. Dear colleagues, I ask those national deputies who disagree to look more frequently into the Rules. I say again, next question, dear colleagues, next question. We had to make a determination to make decisions. And really, that's what we have to do. But at the same time, I want to point out that there was a political agreement between the faction leaders on this issue. [[And we did it.]] This political arrangement is now being severely destroyed. So let's just keep going. Now, if there's a procedure like the procedure for dealing with this issue, 2450, let's figure out, but let's move quietly forward. Is there no objection? I'm asking you to take your seat. That's enough. The Regulatory Committee has already made a statement. I say enough, the regulatory committee has already spoken. I propose to the regulatory committee to study the Rules and then to speak. Dear colleagues! It's being announced. Dear colleagues! I'll make an announcement. Sit down. You're smart people. Sit down. I'm asking you. Dear colleagues! I'm announcing a draft release order. Dear colleagues! In view of the harsh blocking of the work of the Supreme Council, I say again, with the harsh, cynical blocking of the work of the Supreme Council, I announce a break of 30 minutes, and we will continue to watch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. The word when the order will be in the session room. When I get my microphone ripped off, you don't notice. Okay, I'll give it to you. Let them sit down. Offer it to everyone. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats, we'll keep working. Today is the day of the Great Barbaric High School, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u49	Let them all sit down. Yes, we continue our work. We're taking a last break. Dear colleagues! We discussed the results of this break, which we agreed on. A national deputy, Carmazin, spoke. Right? Now, one minute. I ask that, in order to be able to speak to the chairman of the Regulatory Committee, give everyone a chance to sit down. Please. Please, the people's representative of Matthew. Turn on the microphone. I'm telling you again, calm down, please. Turn on the microphone. Don't bother, you're smart people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u51	You don't need to get in trouble, I'm telling you again. You don't have to be insolent, that's enough! I say again, I'm doing fine, I didn't bring it, I don't have my signature there, so please stay away from me. Turn on the microphone, please. You have to break more, then nothing will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, has not spoken since the regulatory committee today. If the first deputy of the head, the committee of Sass, spoke to him as a national deputy. Secondly, in a recess in accordance with part three of article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the regulatory committee examined the fulfilment of the obligation to vote on behalf of national MPs personally. And the committee reports that there's been an analysis of the registers of National Deputies' registrations at the desks, of the Human Resources Management of colleagues who are on the orders of the Supreme Council, as well as of the hospital, and we're determined that there are no official figures in the room, but voted in favour -- I emphasize -- according to official information, we're not the investigating commission. But the following national deputies voted in favour: Bronnikov, Saligin, Homutinnik, Hara, Zviagilski, Suškevitch, Chikal. I'm sorry, you didn't register. Chickal, Zinchenko, Zhivago, Gorbachev. Therefore, the Rules Committee considers that the vote that took place on the question of the release of the head of the National Bank is invalid.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman of the Committee of Regulatory Affairs, Valentin Grigorovitch! Once again, I'd like to ask you to have a principled approach on all matters. The work of the Supreme Council is blocked. Why didn't the regulatory committee hold the meeting, consider the matter? Why? I'm asking. The other one. You call those who are present in the hall, so I would ask you to make decisions that are balanced, objective. We listened to the speech that was from. Tell me again. I'm telling you again, I'm telling you, give me a chance to work. Give me a chance to work! I'm not blaming you, I'm saying you are. Selective approach. Yes! Yes, dear colleagues, during the previous break, I know what I'm talking about, during the previous break, representatives from four factions were speaking. Now there is a request from most of Igor Sharov. Turn on the microphone. I don't take advantage, I'm going fine. You don't want me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the People's Deputies of Ukraine of Bogatirirov, Vaschuk, Gavris, Hubsky, Kravchuk, Pejota, Desert Stenka, Sharov and Happaca read out the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of voting for decisions on individual issues, which belong to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and incorporated or governed by legislation, are considered to be included in the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of the Fourth Appeal. In connection with gross violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 3.8.1, 3.8.3, 3.8.4 and 3.8.5 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure by the Ukrainian People's Deputies of the Communist factions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the faction of the Yulia bloc of Timoshenko and the faction of "Our Ukraine", which were physically harassed by the conduct of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 and 17 December 2002, and which resulted in the termination of the sessions with the aim of ensuring the proper functioning of the sole legislative body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 3.6. 1 The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules: 1. Voting on the adoption of decisions from individual issues that fall within the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the inclusion or enforcement of legislation are considered to be included in the agenda of the day-to-day second session, as set out in the rule at-hoc in the plenary session of Parliament on 17 December 2002 by nominations. 2. To calculate the votes that were formed by the name ballots, the Supreme Council of Ukraine formed a temporary commission of the National Deputys of Ukraine: the Head of the Commission, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, the Deputy Head of the Commission, Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, the Secretary of the Commission, Fomenko Katherina Alexandrovna. Members of the Commission: Julius Ioffe, Vladimir Kafarsky, Lev Mirimsky, Basil Potapov, Dmitri Saint of those Games of Skin. 3. Paragraph 1.2 of this decree defines the procedure for voting by name ballots to apply in other cases a physical obstacle to the conduct of plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down! I'm announcing. Your Honor, I'm calling a recess to vote on the decree. Break one hour. All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u58	They work microphones, they hear, right? Dear colleagues, I'm asking the MPs to return my ballot card, who removed it illegally. Okay. We continue our work, distinguished national MPs. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Seely? Have you calmed down? Let's get back to work. Calm down, we've met with Mishura, and we understand him: he understands me, I understand him. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce the results of the vote for the Supreme Council's decree. Honorable National MPs. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. Some of the national MPs I'd like to ask you not to breathe on me for some reason. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to calm down, take your seats. First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vasiliev Hennaday Andriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u59	The results of the vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the order of voting on the adoption of decisions on individual issues, which fall within the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the inclusion or enforcement of legislation, are considered to be included in the order of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u60	A total of 229 national deputies took part in the vote. "For," voted 229, against--no, held back--no. Thus, the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Procedure for Voting on the Adoption of Decisions of Certain Matters, which is part of the Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the inclusion or enforcement of legislation, is considered to be included in the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's a good question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u61	vote. The ballot papers. The word is given to the head of the Temporary Counting Commission. Hare. Turn the rabbit on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u62	Dear National Deputies! A temporary counting committee shall request one hour to hold a meeting on the issue of voting procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u63	Please repeat, I can't hear what this is about! I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u64	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I'm telling you again. A temporary counting commission shall request one hour to hold a meeting of the Provisional Committee on the Resolution of the Conduct of the Voting Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u65	A one - hour break is announced in order to organize the voting work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Return my ballot card. You know the reason why the break was announced, a temporary reckoning commission worked. I give the floor to the head of the provisional reckoning commission to the national deputy of the Hare. Please. Then there'll be a word, then. Turn on the microphone, please, the people's representative of the Hare. I said to the head of the temporary reckoning commission, the representative of the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Let him finish, let him wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u67	They're going to announce. They'll announce it, it's time. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u68	Gather. No problem. Gather. No problem, no problem. Is there a National Parliament of the Rabbit, a faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine? Why isn't he speaking?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u69	I say again, the people's representative of the Rabbit, please speak, the faction of the Social Democratic, the head of the provisional reckoning commission. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE He's got the wrong protocol. He's got the Hare. Who checked? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Dear colleagues, the reckoning commission has not yet finished its work. I ask five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u70	Please, come on!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I'm asking you to sit down. I can't see what's going on. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, the reckoning commission has just finished its work. I arrived immediately at the session hall. Allow me to report the results of the sitting of the provisional reckoning commission. Eight of the nine members of the reckoning commission were appointed as the head of the committee of the Rabbit, Tereshuk - deputy, Fomenka, Ioff, Mirimsky, Potapova, Saints and Skins. There were questions about the approval of the form of ballot papers for the draft decision on the release of Stelmaq from the post of head of the National Bank of Ukraine and the draft decision on the appointment of Tihypak as head of the National Bank of Ukraine, on the heads and first deputies of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, head and first deputy head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of privatization for the lifting of the results of the vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 21 November 2001 on the adoption in the second reading of Ukraine's draft law on the State budget of Ukraine for 2003. The interim reckoning commission decided to approve this form of ballots for a roll-call vote: four issues to be voted on in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place with the help of two ballots, let me show them. All the ballots are names. First ballot. The first ballot will be followed by a vote on the draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Stelmach from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Each national deputy in the name card has to sign his name, his license number, and his or her will, whether for or against, or stick to and sign it. The second ballot contains three further questions that I have already asked. The requirements for such a ballot were similar. A vote took place on the approval of the relevant forms of ballots. Eight members of the committee who were present at the meeting expressed themselves in favour of, held -- no, against -- no. The minutes of the meeting of the Counting Commission shall be attached to the corresponding signatures of all members of the Temporary Counting Commission. The interim reckoning commission decided to hold a vote in the Presidium of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the third floor from 15 to 17 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 5:00. A vote will take place during the recess
