ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please take your jobs, we'll keep working. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:42]] Registered -389 There are 389 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. The People’s Deputy, Head of the Counting Commission, has the floor to announce the results of the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! Allow me to introduce to you the contents of Protocol 2 of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of October 17, 2002. The summary of the secret ballot on the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine was heard. A ballot for the secret ballot on the appointment of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine included the candidature of Vosnik Ivan Pantelijovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established: The number of Ukrainian national deputies whose credentials are recognized is 449, The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots - 201; The number of national deputies who took part in the vote is 171; The number of invalid ballots is 3. Vosnik Ivan Panteliyovich has been nominated by 161 votes to 7. According to articles 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, article 3.2. Chapters 5 and 3.7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules The Counting Commission decided not to be appointed to the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the rapporteur -- the head of the Counting Commission? No, it's all clear. We're taking the information for granted. Dear colleagues, your consideration is under consideration, please note, number 2315, 2316, 2317 on the election and release of judges. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Mikolo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u4	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine has received a submission from the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the dismissal of a number of judges of different levels. Your opinion is on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the release of the following judges. According to article 85, paragraph 15, and the second and ninth paragraphs of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 43 of the Law on the Status of Judges of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stipulates: to release Connonk Viktor Ivanovich, judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with his resignation. Husak Maria Mikolayevna, judge of the Court of Appeal of the region of IvanoFrankiv, in connection with the application for exemption at your own request. Petrova Georgia Semenović, judge of the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd district, in connection with the age of sixty - five years, that is, the limit age in which a judge may be in office. Medina Víru Vasilovna, Judge of the Kyiv District Court of Appeal, in connection with the application for resignation. Zabukina Galina Ivanovna, judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, in connection with the application for resignation. Kurinska Svetlana Afanasyevna in connection with the application for resignation She also works as judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Vladimir Evsiyyovich, judge of the local Feodosius City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the local Bagal district court of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District of Kravchenko, Valentina Philipovna, in connection with the application for resignation. Mikola Konovich Kovalenka, a judge of the local Sinélízov City Court of the Dnipropetrov region, in connection with the application for resignation. Rubin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, judge of the local commercial city court of Donetsk, in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the local Kirov Regional Court of Makiyevka Donetské region in connection with the application for resignation; Dubina Svetlana Josephovna, judge of the local Nouveau district court of the Donetsk region, in connection with the application for resignation; Rudendra Grigorovitch, judge of the local Torretsky local court of the Donetsk region, also in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the local district court of Zaporozhye District of Breck Ivan Semenović in connection with the application for resignation; Tubolts Nina Moisievna, judge of the local Kyivo-Svetoshina District Court in connection with the application for resignation; Gres Nina Porfirovna, judge of the local Catholic District Court in connection with the application for resignation; Shamukov Farida Yangibaevich, judge of the local Bilopopol district court of the Sum district, in connection with the application for a state of health pension that impedes the continuation of duties; Philipchuk Tetian Absentovna, judge of the local Shepetov district court of the Hmelnicki district in connection with the application for resignation; Rybak Olga Makarovna, judge of the local Solomen District Court of Kyiv in connection with the application for resignation; Quick Alexander Ivanovich, judge of the local court of agriculture of the Dnipropetrov region in connection with his 65th birthday. Respectable national MPs, with regard to all the judges mentioned to the Supreme Council’s Committee on Legal Policy, are provided with all necessary documents that demonstrate compliance with the legal procedure for the release of judges from office. Therefore, the Supreme Council Committee of Legal Policy recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be relieved of the positions of judges just above. Thank you. The materials you have, your esteemed colleagues, are all in your hands, which include not only the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but also all the materials that are added to every judge's case.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u5	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? None. I see. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote draft decree number 2316 on the release of judges. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Turn on the board. [[16:12:08]] For 226 For -226. Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, where's the reporter? Mikola Vasilovich, please continue to report, Onichuk. And then we have decrees 2317, 2315. Please. Not all of us, there are 3 decrees. We have to vote. Dear colleagues, we have another release and one assignment. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, in addition to the Committee on Legal Policy, considered another application concerning the dismissal of a judge. And let me announce it. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Golovinov from office of judge In accordance with article 85, paragraph 15, and article 126, part five, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: to release Golovinov Valerija Volodymyrovich from office as judge of the local Regional Court of the Herson District for violating the oath of a judge. The application to the Supreme Council for the release of the judge in question came from the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine. And if you insist, I can read it or answer your question. Is Judge Golovinov Vladimir present?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u7	Did the committee offer a judge or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u8	No, they didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u9	Well, if he's not invited, then he's gone. There is a question for the reporter of a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u10	Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u11	Out of procedure, National MP Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u12	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Your Honor, I'm addressing you. I'm going to have a convincing request to you, I think, from the face of many deputies. In dealing with such serious issues, especially those relating to the personal activities of judges, we must necessarily see and hear this person, be able to ask him such questions. Because the information that you have heard on your part does not allow conclusions to be drawn. And we can decide the fate of man. Sometimes this button can be pressed, you know, you can bring in the irreparable zigzags in this destiny. So next time, please consider such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u13	Thank you. I think it's a good point. And since it was about releasing a judge for breaking an oath, and such negative facts here are the subject of the Supreme Council of Justice, we're sort of out of what might be enough. But if there is a proposal for deputies, then let's talk about how to act in a particular case, and for the future, we'll take notes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u14	By procedure, the National Deputy Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u15	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and the reporter, I ask you to remove this question. First, we agreed with you that all of these issues, when considered on the committee, are invited by the Ukrainian National Deputies from a particular region. This was not done. It's different. We know, besides what you're saying, there are absolutely other reasons that have served to free this court. And in the end, we're not the tribunal to decide the fate of a person, not even by talking to him, but only by the presentation given to you, not by the Supreme Council of Justice, but by giving you this presentation. And so I would ask my colleagues not to vote in favour of this decision and return after we invite this judge to a committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u16	I just wanted to make one point. A formal document from the High Council of Justice is, it is, it is, it is, it is, and after that, only the committee considers. Please, Vasil Onopenko, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that this issue has been discussed on the High Council of Justice, and the High Council of Justice has submitted a motion to the committee and to the Supreme Council on the release of Chief Valery Volodymyrovich on such grounds. On September 11, 2000, under his headship, the Bronnikov case was considered, and he defined the penalty of up to three years of imprisonment in the labor and correctional colony of the reinforced regime with the confiscation of property. On the second day, a fictitious judgment came out completely the opposite, where the sentence was suspended. So this is about falsifying the sentence. A criminal case has been brought against him, and it is being dealt with in the Zaporez Court of Appeal. So I don't think there's any need to put these materials away to reconsider. We invited Golovin to a meeting of the High Council of Justice, and he did not show up to give an explanation. That's why I think. What is needed is an objective consideration of the matter. I don't think a judge like that should work in a court of law. And that's one of the reasons why there are so many complaints about judicial authority. So please support the submission of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u18	National MP Zvaric from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I thank you for giving me the floor to the procedure, but I wanted to, in fact, talk this time essentially. First of all, I have no doubt that this application by the High Council of Justice has certain grounds, because it is documented. I point out to my colleagues that this judge makes one criminal decision one day, and in the morning, when the accused is brought to that time, the judge makes a completely different decision immediately outside the courtroom. At least according to the documentation, that's the conclusion I'm making for myself. But there's something else I'm worried about. In the account of the High Council of Justice, the point is that this judge is already charged with another criminal case. If so, several questions arise. Whether a decision has been taken regarding this judge’s knowledge of his integrity, that is, there has been no decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant consent to bring legal responsibility. I mean, how can we then talk about a criminal case against this judge? This time. Two. Do you think this judge's actions have a criminal record in this case, including 356 "Excellent Powers"? And if so, is the material on such a case transmitted to the prosecutor’s office?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u20	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u21	Well, in fact, the judge was not involved in a criminal case. The point is that he was in a court hearing where the criminal record of the convicted person was examined, he rendered one decision, a verdict, and the next day he changed the sentence. [[In the material is simple]] I want you. Excuse me. Let me get you an extract from the High Council of Justice, let me read it out. You have it. It is therefore necessary to be guided by these materials, which are presented by the Supreme Council of Justice. I would just like to say that on the committee, committee members were looking for any opportunity to assess the situation so that it wasn't, had no effect on the judge that he was. I'm out of office. Sadly, though, there are no excusable elements or circumstances that could testify to his or her indiscretion, or perhaps lack of proper qualifications, or anything else. I mean, unfortunately, all the facts show that the judge acted consciously and deliberately went to a violation of an oath in such a rude form, which, frankly, in court practice occurs or not for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u22	National MP Melniczuk, your question, please. Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u23	Dear reporter. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine For that reason, I have such a question. Something very confusing about this case when the High Council of Justice decides when you report that the case is in an appeal court, we, parliamentarians, are judges or we find out that a person has abused or is evidence of his abuse. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm making an offer to postpone consideration of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u24	Please answer if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u25	In fact, it is our decision to make the hall. If such a proposal is made to move the case, for example, to the next day of the vote, Thursday, and to invite the person directly involved in the decision, then, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would not object to such a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u26	Thank you. People's MP Carmazin, then Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u27	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear reporter, we've really been looking at this material, really terrible things are that Golovinov Valeriy Volodymyrovich is still a judge today. Please tell me if you know whether he's sentencing now, whether he's making a decision on the name of Ukraine, whether he's continuing, or whether he's taking some kind of organizational action on whether there's a vacation or something to keep him out of the justice process, even if it's at that point in time, whether he's been taken from production. What do you know right now in this part? Although I'm going to urge everyone to vote in favour of an early release from office of the high judge of a man who is accused of such serious crimes - for breaking his oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u28	Thank you for asking. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I have to say, you know the committee has no authority on this matter to make any decisions. But what the situation looks like at this very time, perhaps a representative of the High Council of Justice will be able to inform us, because they have conducted a direct study of the situation that has taken place around a judge whose decision is proposed. And, Vasil Vasilovich, I might be addressing this question to you in terms of whether the High Council of Justice has made any decisions. I didn't accept, I mean, unfortunately, at this point it's not clear whether she's doing it or continuing to serve as a judge of justice as such. Obviously, since only the Supreme Council can decide on it, as we understand it, we are the same subject, as you say, who can stop the execution of a judge who has no moral and legal right in view of the concessions he has made.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u29	Thank you. People's deputy, Buiko, and then Kruglov. Bull, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich and Nikolai Vasilevich! The very course of the debate on this issue shows that the issue is not sufficiently prepared and, of course, it is impossible to decide today. Blaming a person in absentia is the easiest thing to do without really understanding the problem. Therefore, I think that the wisdom of the MP, collective, must be shown precisely in order for your committee to invite the judge himself, to consider all the circumstances of the case, all the charges against him, and to listen to the man himself, and to make the appropriate grammatical decision. After that, we can move into the hall and, if necessary, simply invite them into the hall because this has already become the subject of collective discussion. As Prime Minister, I can say that a number of people's deputies sit for the ridiculous charge of taking the President's building except onopenko. That's why we need to take that question down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u31	People's deputy to Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u32	Dear reporter, Kruglov. 130 constituency. Can you please tell me how the case is being criminalized? This judge has committed a crime or, let's say, conduct is disciplinary. That's the first one. If it's a crime, then it's a completely different way to look at it, to break the case, and to look at it differently. If this is a disciplinary action, then the investigation should be an exhibition and only then can it be considered. What kind of guilt? Maybe we should just order him to make an excuse and so on. And it's practically not clear what you're doing. In that situation, I find it inappropriate to consider the matter at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u33	With regard to the actions of Judge Golovinov and which are the object and basis for his dismissal from the position of judge, the criminal case was not violated. For these reasons, this is a subject of disciplinary responsibility. But disciplinary responsibility, including presupposes how the action is -- it's the application of the High Council of Justice to discharge is considered a violation of an oath, which is the basis for dismissal. That is, the level of the violation is that, from the point of view of the requirements that are presented to the judge, they are sufficient to be released from office because they are incompatible with the title of the judge and, in particular, the court’s robe and the oath given by the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u34	Thank you. Give me back my document, please. Dear colleagues, you can sit down. Not far, because we have to vote. Dear colleagues, an offer was made by the committee, as well as by the National Deputies, to postpone and study the matter further. I'm voting on the first proposal. If we don't make a decision, then we'll invite the committee to work on your proposals. I'm putting to the vote a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Chief Justice. This is number 2317, please vote. [[16.29:35]] For 214 For -214, no decision is made. The second sentence remains: I ask the committee to take into account the proposals made by the people's deputies, to study the matter further, along with the High Council of Justice, and to make appropriate proposals next Thursday. If necessary, invite Judge Golovin to be present and be able to answer questions raised by national deputies. No objections? Your Honor, you are being examined by draft Decree 2315 on the election of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The rapporteur is the first deputy chairman of the committee, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, now to a more pleasant decision, at least, I think we'll be more alone here. The President of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Vitalia Fedorovich Boyko, who is here to elect the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine without a period of time onopenko Vasil Vasilovič, by the way, our colleague. I would like to point out that yesterday the Committee of Legal Policy considered this issue and concluded that Vasil Vasilovic Onopenko met the requirements of the Supreme Court of Ukraine's judiciary and Ukrainian law on the status of judges and the Ukrainian Constitution. I would like to remind you that these requirements are the following: a judge who claims to be a judge of the Supreme Court should have a higher legal education, he should have a minimum age of 35 years, 10 years of legal training, and the last five years to serve as a judge. I want to remind you that Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko has already served as a judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine from 1985 to 1991, which is that he has the necessary experience to elect his judge of the Supreme Court. The committee's decision is to recommend and ask the Supreme Council to support this submission, and in particular to select Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenek as judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u36	Is there a question to be answered? You don't? Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need to discuss this question or ask Vasil Vasilovich Onopenk, please? Is it? Karmazin has it. Please, National Deputy Carmazin. "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u37	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I certainly believe that you have worked before the Supreme Court, and with your knowledge you can and should work there, surely I support your candidacy. I just wanted to know your position on what you're seeing from here, from this room, from the committee's legal policy office, about what's being done in the judicial branch of power, especially what we're seeing in these court meetings, where there are 30 people in police masks who can't understand what's behind the faces, whether it's bandits or whether it's bandits, who are such people, which is your attitude as judges in the past, as judges in the future, as heads of the committee of legal policy. That's the first question. And the second question. What you're going to do is head of a party called the Social Democratic Party. And for today, you are the leader of such a party. As your colleague head of the Party of Protectors of Homeland, I'd like to know your actions and the politics need to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u38	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, distinguished colleagues. Of course, I know the problems of the courts, not on the outside, but on the inside, because I have come from the judge of the district court, the district court, and the Supreme Court. But I also know the problems of the courts and as the minister of justice who worked in five governments. I know the problems of the courts as a person who went out of court and stepped down as a minister of justice, and I was three times in court, then as a prosecutor, as an defendant. So I saw outside these problems, there are many objective factors, but there is also much subjectiveness. I don't want to be a characterist today. The judicial system certainly doesn't work the way we want it to. So this is about major changes in the judicial system. I promise you this. When it comes to the fact that I am the head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, the event is scheduled, and I will be the head of the Social Democratic Party. There were many times when the interests of the party were other interests, but I was always based on the law and the dictatorship of the law, the rule of law in the state. So in such positions I stood and stood. We have each of our own party apartments and a subscription, but there's Ukraine, there's a Ukrainian house.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u39	Yes, Kaletnik, please, after him Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u40	Dear Basil Vasilovich, as a fellow countryman, I know you well as a professional, as a man who has always had a position. And I will, indeed, support your candidacy to elect a judge of the Supreme Court and call upon my fellow national deputies to do so. But I'd like to ask you a question, how do you feel about the decision of the Court of Appeal to file a case against the President of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u41	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. I just want to say, fellow officers, if I were to say my vision as a judge, if you would trust me to take this position, I shouldn't stand here and ask you to support me for the election of the Supreme Court judge. I can have this case under consideration tomorrow. And therefore, I believe that in court proceedings on the basis of actual legislation, I will have to make a decision if I have to deal with this case. A judge can't be prejudiced, it's the requirements of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u42	National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u43	Thank you. Jaroslav is dry, the city of Zaporozhye, the faction of SDPU. Dear colleagues! In my previous call as a deputy magistrate, I had to see for myself the deep order, principle and professionality of Vasil Vasilovich. I will vote for myself, and I urge you to vote for it. But I have a question for you, Vasil Vasilovich. Please tell me, do you agree that in Ukraine today, we have elements of vavalism and nihilism in the judicial system of our Ukraine, as is the case with most of the Ukrainian national deputies in the districts? And are you capable of keeping your actions in order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u44	I agree that, unfortunately, there is a telephone law in Ukraine today. I agree that we have failed to achieve the independence of judges and courts. I agree that many judgments and decisions are wrong. I see it and I work as a member of the High Council of Justice. And that's another subject of how many judges we draw to disciplinary responsibility. I can tell you that if fate comes together so that it's up to me to put order in the court system, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u45	Thank you. Dear colleague, introduce yourself, please. Tsquitshvili.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u46	National Deputy Tskitishvili Enver Omarovich, National Choice. Dear Vasili Vasilievich, please tell me how you feel about the so-called issue of pressure on judges when making decisions. I think, my personal opinion, that most of the problem exists in this room, and you're a specialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u47	I think this question is resonating with the past. I said that there is such a problem, and it is in this aspect that I have already prepared a series of amendments to the Law on the Status of Judges, the Higher Council of Justice and other current legislation to at least reduce it. So I share your concern. I think we need to do it all together: both the Supreme Court, and the deputies -- just to solve this important problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u48	Manchulenka, please. Then Klukkowski. Then Alexander Alexanderus Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u49	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of our Ukraine. Your Honor! You've become a member of parliament on the list of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. Now you've written a statement to "majority," and now you represent "majority." So you don't think it's like swinging from the opposition seat to the predominant "majority" that she's not up to being a candidate for the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u50	Thank you for asking. I just want to say that if a candidate for a judge is elected as, for example, right now, he can't be in any political faction. When I got out of Julia Timoshenko's block, I didn't go into any faction or MP group, although I can honestly tell you that I've been offered such offers, I'm not going to hide them. So I'm not ashamed. These are the requirements of the law that I must obey. As for my political position at all, I would like you to separate it from my judicial activity. The one who followed my life's path, starting with the judge to the throne. The minister of justice, the minister of justice, he could. I don't think you have anything to blame me for, so your choice is you can't support me. I'm not asking, I'm not looking for a job, I want to go back to that area of activity where I can make full use of my experience, my knowledge and my skills.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u51	People's MP Klukkowski, after which the question will be asked by the People's Deputy of Frost and the time is running out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u52	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I have practically no doubt that you will be supported by the vote today and that your professional level is entirely in line with that. And as an MP, you come to the Supreme Court at a time when the law on the judiciary needs to be implemented and, in particular, the system of administrative courts needs to be put in place. That's why my question is to you. Please tell me which college of the Supreme Court or which subsystem of the Supreme Court you intend to go to, criminal, civil or administrative, under the new law. And wouldn't you agree to lead the system of administrative courts as a man of experience?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u53	I am willing to work simply as a judge of the Supreme Court, without presiding over the court of the administrative court, as colleagues in the Supreme Court will decide. Well, obviously, you asked questions, knowing that I had implemented a project along with the People's Deputy Moses on the Administrative and Procedural Code. And in order for administrative courts in Ukraine to work as a specialized chain of courts, we need an administrative procedure code. It provides for the reincarnation of officials, it provides for the prosecution of decisions of the Supreme Council, certain decisions, the Cabinet of Ministers, public authorities, and presidential acts. It's an interesting bill, but you're going to accept it right here in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u54	Alexander Frost, then Karnauh and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u55	Alexander Frost, faction of the Socialist Party. I don't have as many questions as two suggestions. One Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Well, first of all, if you're looking at the personal question of a deputy that everybody knows long ago, the less it's on the rostrum, the better it is for the cause, because it has to answer more or less accurately and it turns out that all the time there's a difference of opinion. And it may be that there is nothing left to ask, no questions asked. So I think people know, let them define themselves as they know them. It's different. If you, well, imagine such a fatal situation, nothing is going to happen, Vasil Vasilovich, then you add "oh" to your party, so it's essentially not by name, and lead this party, it's going to be good for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u56	I said that the Karnauh National Deputy would have a word, but please take into account the remark that has just been made. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u57	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Vasily Vasilovich, I know you as an experienced and qualified lawyer, and regardless of your response, I will vote for you. But please tell us how you appreciate the criminal offence being committed against the senior prosecutors of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u58	People's MP's microphone, please. Karnauh, take the microphone to work, it doesn't work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u59	Vassil Vasilovich, how do you assess the fact that a criminal case has been committed against the senior investigators of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office regarding a group of national deputies, as it were, after the capture of the President's Administration? Did the elder investigative officer have the right to file a criminal case, and was there an apprehension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u60	Mikola Vasilovich, you're as experienced as I am. And you realize that in order to give an exact answer, I need to look at the material of the case. I'm just going to tell you for everyone in this room that I've drafted a bill saying that a criminal case against anyone -- Ivanov, Petrov, a worker, a peasant -- can be prosecuted in a court of law, a court of law. There must be judicial control over this. Denial of a violation can be sued, closure can be sued, and a violation of a criminal order cannot be made; it is an abnormal phenomenon. So I prepared changes to the Criminal Procedure Code. You take it here, you take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u61	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u63	Please have a seat, Vasil Vasilovich. I'm voting on draft decision 2315 on the election of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. For -260 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Dear colleagues, in order for us to unlock, as it were, we're still working actively, I beg your attention, well, we're not unlocking the opposition. I'm asking you to consider your questions, which need to be included in the agenda according to your insistence. This is draft document No. 2311, draft decree for hearing the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the use of unlawful actions by the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs officials to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sovkovic, which took place on 12 October 2002. Please make up your mind. For - 220, The factions. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I don't understand. Please, the people's representative of Bespalov, please. The People's Landing faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u64	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to point out that this is today the following: two days ago we set up a commission with you to investigate a case involving an attack on the people's representative of Sivkovic. A proposal was made by the People's Government Group to hear direct participants, i.e. the Minister of the Interior and the one who gave the orders, the Deputy Minister of Gigi. I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u65	What, do we have to vote again? Dear colleagues, I would like to stress that I would like to urge you to vote on draft decree 2311 on hearing the report of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of illegal actions by members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sovkovic, which took place on 12 October 2002. Please make up your mind. For 276, the decision is made. I ask the Secretary to form with you so that we can consider this matter tomorrow. I mean, I'm going to prepare a draft of the relevant documents together with the profile committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the bills that are proposed for inclusion in the agenda of the second session. This is a document, you have 2230. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on harmonization of the rules for the implementation of the State budget in 2003. I'll bet you a vote, please. To - 178. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, for your consideration. May I have your attention, please? A draft decree of 2220 is being introduced: on the political situation in Ukraine. Please make up your mind. To - 184. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, I've been pushing you for the fifth time. You don't have to raise your hand. Dear colleagues, you are being examined by draft Decree 2264: promoting a return of confidence in Ukraine by international society. I'll bet you a vote. Please decide on this project. I'd like to make a statement. For -38. The decision is not taken. Well, by the faction, please, if that's what you're interested in. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? You are being reviewed by a draft decree, draft Law No. 2225 amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the mortgage of the debtor. This is a project of the national deputy Galieva. Recommends the Economic Policy Committee. Please vote. "To"-161. The decision is not taken. The factions, if necessary. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Amendment Act, and you are being asked to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. External-economic activities. This is document number 2226, draft of the People's Chamber of Saints. The committee recommends the inclusion of economic policy in the agenda. Please vote. "To" -221 The decision is not taken. The factions. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we include an extremely serious draft of the Law in the agenda that we have talked about a lot. It's a draft law on export duty rates for waste and scrap of black metals. This is a project of two national deputies, Matthew and Gaul. These are documents number 2187, 2180-1. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. "For" - 225. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! On your request that the card didn't work, I'm still putting the draft law on export duty rates on waste and scrap of black metals into the agenda. Please vote. You've all talked about the importance of this bill. Please vote. "To" - 228 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to calm down and take your seats. Dear National Deputies! For inclusion in the agenda, it is proposed to consider document number 2113, the draft decree for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the situation regarding the payment of taxes by the largest domestic enterprises of various forms of property. Project of the People's Deputy Desert. Please vote. Please be supportive. "To" 213. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear National Deputies! For inclusion in the agenda, a draft decree is proposed for the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the formation of debts owed to the State by legal persons, lenders for loans to the State or under State guarantees. This is project number 2268, 2268-1. I'll put it to a vote, please. "For" - 222 The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down. I'd like to pay attention to how the polytheists voted -- I'll give you the motive now -- when it comes to the political situation. For some reason no one was disturbed, no running in the hall. Well, let's be polite to each other. Dear colleagues! Well, they voted five people, and I'm already silent, so I don't comment. Please, with a motive. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. At the morning meeting, the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, asked you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to point out that three national deputies are working in the voting room. It's been six hours now, but you're not paying any attention. I want to remind you and all the people's deputies. Today, in all the ballots, there are, in particular, the cards of the National Deputy Suškević, who is now in Japan, the National Deputy Rizak, who was spoken of in the morning as the governor of the district, who is missing, who is probably in Zakarpatta as the governor of the district. [[In Japan!]] I emphasize, Governor. I know there is no such position, but the head of the district government. And in the end, Blochin, who is still in Greece today, may have arrived. But. I'm sorry, he wasn't in the hall this morning. First of all, I ask that if I have made a mistake, let national MPs Suškević and national deputy Rizak rise so that we do not go in the ranks right now and explain whether there are such national MPs or not in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, this is how I propose. Please, have a seat. In order not to disturb the situation, I propose and ask and, I think I have every reason to do so, the head of the Standing Committee, to analyse all the national deputies who are in resignations or departures. And I am convinced, honourable national deputies, that the head of the Regulatory Committee should be on the watch for the full Rules, not to show his prejudice. I point out to you, Sir Matthews, that when the issue of the political situation was being voted on, many deputies voted with many cards. And please be objective. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Gmir's national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u68	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, your comments are not entirely correct. You're talking about seeing a lot of MPs vote with two cards. Please call the names of the deputies, show that any of those who voted are in the foreign office, then you can talk about something. And, in general, respected colleagues, I'm surprised by the logic of those people who are trying to prove that two cards can be voted on. Logic is as simple as a rabid virus and as useful to our people. The argument is very simple: it used to be, it always will be. Well, you'll excuse me. On that basis, a serial maniac can demand an acquittal, claiming that he killed and raped 49 times, he had nothing to do with it, so the 50th time he could be killed and raped with impunity. Dear colleagues, if there is lawlessness, let's stop it. Vladimir Mihajlovich, if you don't notice during the vote that someone is voting with two cards, that's a negative for you. Please note both on the left and on the right and most of this position, then there will be legitimacy in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u69	Thank you. I totally agree with you. Zarubinsky's national deputy, Dobkin's national deputy, then Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u70	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I think that all deputies could now find out and have an example of hypocrisy, because the name Blochina, which was used here and used, was always to be used when, from June-month Communist faction, you could raise the names of the vote, in the absence of this national deputy, and that is to say, you had a calm vote in favour of this famous football player, and at the same time, the head of the Regulatory Committee, who was then also the head of the Regulatory Committee, was absolutely silent. I don't know, maybe he voted for Blochin himself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u71	Please, National Deputy Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u72	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, when the previous draft regulation was voted on, there was a noise in the hall, and many of the House's members did not hear what it was about. Please. And we failed to vote. I ask you, if possible, to re-vote Order 2268 and 2268-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u73	National Deputy Assadchev. I see, yes. Valentin Grigorovich, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you don't understand, we may not be able to correct you, because you are the person who came from the body, where to trample on the Constitution is a normal phenomenon. And you will never realize, perhaps, why this should not be done, that it is a great loss to the State. But I just wanted to tell you, the last cadence of the Supreme Council has already partially deviated from the practice that you personally have now applied. I mean, you couldn't vote for three anymore. So the button had to be held. I'm asking you to go back to democracy on this side, not be ashamed of yourself. That's the first one. And the second. I made an offer: Let's at least block the cards of those who are simply not in the hall. They're on a mission, they're in a hospital, they don't work at the Supreme Council anymore. I think there's going to be another step towards constitutionality, towards democracy. I'm asking you to just do that. You should remember that you are one of the senior officials of the State, and you should not set an example for all of us to break the Constitution and be proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u75	Thank you. I'm not proud of anything. I would just like to say that this morning, as we have heard, my colleague Assadchev, I asked that our computer system of information study the subject and say what needs to be done so that only one national MP can vote. Please, Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Then Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u76	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm not going to criticize you, I'm going to quote you. The newspaper Voice of Ukraine says, "In the Supreme Council and more, what unites us is what separates us." That is why only concern for Ukraine can unite us today. And for that, given the dialogue that was in Poland, it has to start here in Ukraine at the Supreme Council Hall. There was Tigypto, representing democratic forces, the President said he was ready for dialogue. So come on, I'm talking to the presidential factions: "Support the President and vote for us to put the day-to-day issue of the political situation into order and hear here at the Supreme Council to consider issues." This is what will unite us. More than that. The second question. If we announce that most of them are being dissolved, everything is being brought together immediately, and there are no problems. So I conclude with the thesis: We will look for what unites us, and to do so we need to put the day’s issue of the political situation in the state in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u77	Thank you, National MP of Winsky. And we're going to finish because the discussion is already under way.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u78	Dear National Deputies! It seems to me that the situation is artificially going to turn into a dead end, if you act, I mean the Head of the Supreme Council and most of them, so. You can't lie about building legal work. There is no excuse to falsify a constitutional norm. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you're an intelligent person, you have a degree in science. You can't justify your actions like that. Please take steps to ensure that the Constitution, which each MP votes for himself, is implemented regardless of whether the opposition or the majority. That's perfectly clear. And stop what you're doing, you're just breaking up the Supreme Council. It didn't start with us, it didn't end with us. Think what you're doing! You're just destroying the legislature! You are committing a crime against the Constitution, against the laws of Ukraine. Stop before it's too late. You won't achieve anything. You can't do anything about it! Only the minuses you get.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u79	Thank you. People's MP Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u80	Lucenko, a socialist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, after you signed the drafts that were not adopted in the Supreme Council Hall, as evidenced by the main conclusion here in this matter of the Rules Committee, you are already clear. But I'm very interested in the selectivity of your vision, when the so-called majority that doesn't actually exist votes with three cards, you say, it's not your business to run and watch. When a minority suddenly votes more or less seriously, you suddenly have a third eye, and you see someone voting collectively. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm reminding you that two points of view in a separate head are schizophrenic. I'm asking you not to make me repeat the formula: you've grown out of the presidential administration's diapers, and the persistent smell has, unfortunately, remained.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u81	People's deputy worker and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and listen to everyone. The voting room deals with questions that are of concern to both the majority and the minority. Yet we realize that voting is abstaining for two reasons. First, the political situation in Ukraine is not being considered, and second, no decision is taken on Victor Yushchenk's decision to make the vote personal. I believe that most of the Medvedczuk’s name has not taken place today, and voting statistics confirm this, voting only takes place when there is a really objective interest in many factions. So then this is the road to nowhere. I'm convinced that the political forces need to stay away from the extreme extremists of Medvedchuk's views and think about the future of Ukraine, and eventually we can agree here. Regardless of the fact that we will consider the political situation and show that we will not be able to get out of the crisis. We have to realize that the President's portfolio of proposals is completely empty and they have to be born here in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u83	Thank you, time's up. Please, Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u84	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking to most of you about this, and I'm pointing out that there's a soccer game in the plenary today. And football, as everyone knows, has two gates. When we consider the voting process on the Conciliation Council today, preparing for the vote, and agreed that the majority that was created today and voting, in my opinion, had gone through a number of such political discards, that's not what counts. We agreed that we would vote in favour of the draft budget, for the conclusions of the budget committee, if we consider issues that affect the increase in the income portion of the budget. In fact, it's an improvement in the social, economic situation in our country. Today, quite different questions have been answered. So I'm going to go to everybody, and I'm going to start voting so that we can be the same. If the other half of the so-called opposition does not begin to vote, then we will not vote in favour of all the legislative acts of the majority of the deputies. And we urge everyone to work together. And now, from the MPs of the People's Democratic Party, People's Choice and People's Authority, we propose a recess for consultations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Terrence. That's it. We're not discussing the situation in the hall right now. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u86	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have, I have a very specific proposal. [[Can you hear me?]] So this is the situation where I want to support you. I would like to support you in the context that you have made a very reasonable offer today, in my opinion, to give a command to our people from the computer center to simply block their system by the start of meetings of those who are not present. I have just consulted and asked for advice from our respected highly professional people who are involved in the computer system. And they say that, in principle, it doesn't have any difficulty. So let's do what we talked about at the beginning. So somewhere, let's say at 10 or 11 hours, depending on the decision or message of the Committee, we do what you suggest, and we stop the argument. We just block those cards of people who don't have one. And there will be no football: those who voted for the left, for the right, for the most part. There will be justice, there will be truth. The state begins with the truth, with Parliament. I mean, I want you to finish what you're proposing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u87	Okay. I'll get it. All of it. Time's up. Matthew. And we're done. Valentin Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to support the idea that if there were fewer football players in our room, we would be doing serious work in this room as politicians. Now, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to address you. If the Head of the Supreme Council has seen that there is a violation of the vote, you must take appropriate measures of influence in order to bring order to the Hall of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council. And I don't have any prejudice with anyone. This is the first time. It's different. I want to say to my colleague Zarubinsky that when Blokhin, unfortunately, was in a Communist faction, he was not involved in the vote on the harsh political issues, and, unfortunately, you know, he was sitting next to the members of the European Choice Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u89	Thank you. Baran's line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I look at the bed, where government officials sit and their faces are very sad and their eyes are sad. Their eyes ask us to consider the political situation, for they do not know what will be with them tomorrow in the management of Medvedchuk. Therefore, the venerable majority, your people sitting there, we respect them and respect them. For their sake, let us consider the political situation, and let them work in peace. We have to work for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Questions that need to be included in the agenda are considered. I just want to say. Dear colleagues, if you're offered, say, there are a number of national deputies from other factions, the question is not included in the agenda and there is no hysteria, there is a normal civilized process. Let's work, you'll have to put it in, I'll put it in tens of times. But if it doesn't work, let's move on. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Tax Laws on the Conditions of Customs Processing of Goods. The Committee on Finance and Banking supports it. Please vote. "For" - 220. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm voting on the agenda of the 2115. The draft law on civil democratic control of the military organization, the law enforcement agencies of the state. Project of the People's Deputy, Krüchkov. The profile committee supports that. Please vote. "To" - 169 The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of a regulation to standardize the activity of the journal's editor. Project of the People's Deputies of Justice. There are two projects here: from the Justice and the Committee. The Committee supports this consideration. Please vote. "To" - 203 The decision is not taken. The factions. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decision to establish a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine into the activities of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio in 2000-2002. Project of the People's Deputy Jovtika. The committee supports. Please make up your mind. "For" - 14. You don't need factions, do you? I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda under number 2179. This is a draft decree for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate allegations by the Ukrainian people's deputies, members of the opposition faction of Ukraine and the party on the facts of persecution by political motives, using the capacity of state-owned forces to carry out mass checks, follow-up actions, criminal offences and other grave violations of the current Ukrainian legislation. The Karnauha People's Deputy Project. The Committee on Rules, MPs and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council supports inclusion. I'll bet you a vote. Please make up your mind. "To" - 4. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion of a daily document under number 2294, the draft decree on compliance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine in the conduct of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's vote, the draft national deputy Yushchenka. The Rules Committee supports MP ethics. Please make up your mind. "To" - 65. Ladies and gentlemen, if you insist, I can re-vote the political situation, but let's continue our work. For reasons, please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u92	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to make it clear, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Rules Committee has not reached a conclusion on this issue, but I would like to clarify it. The draft decree came only to the committee on October 15. The questions raised in the above-mentioned draft were discussed at the Committee's meeting on September 19th and October 9th, and there was agreement on the Council-3 software and technology complex. And this document we've really sent you where very clearly defined all of the problems that would help us solve this is not a very difficult, very difficult question by making changes to the working position on "Council," and now on the new "Council-3." So if you give me time to inform the people's deputies, I'll tell you what is proposed to improve the work of the Council-3, including Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, and about the registration or withdrawal of the cards of those national deputies who are not at the morning or evening meetings due to shipping, disease or other important reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u93	National deputy Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We have a question to ask you as Head: The representatives of the three factions have officially requested a recess. Why are you not responding to this question? If two factions of opposition ask a similar question, you immediately ask the question and you solve it. In this case, you can see that you're not running the Supreme Council, it's some MP psychosis, you're conducting this MP psychosis. We need to hold a consultation and set up a normal legislative activity. So once again, I'm reminding you of the requirement of three factions to declare a recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u95	Thank you. I'd like to, my dear colleague, answer you. I'm reacting the same way for everyone. In the previous session, two factions — socialist and BUT — insisted that a recess be announced. I said that the chairman could announce it, but there was no reason for it because we were working. I would ask you not to blame me. National MP Dobkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u96	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am sorry for the insistence, but if there is a chance, today we can put to the re-voting of Decree 2268 because when it was first placed, for some reason everyone was raised and simply failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues! About what? Please, Martinyuk with a motive? About what, Rudzkowski? For what reasons?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u98	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I am particularly referring to the part that calls myself the majority. In each of the parliaments, in each of the democratic societies, if we want to do that, you know that the rights of minorities are legally established, because otherwise those in the minority will never be able to do anything. In our Constitution, there are several cases where 150 votes are sufficient for members of the people to make a decision. It's also the protection of minority rights. That is why I am addressing you, on whom it is now up to us to resolve this conflict. You can see that Parliament is divided roughly in half, that neither in the other nor in the other half is enough to make decisions. Let's just put it, vote, support the opposition to consider the political situation. Let's take a look at it and go back to work. And the breakup of Parliament's work depends more on you than on the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u99	Tolstouchov, please, the NDP faction. Tolstokes. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, in connection with the information that has been heard in the hall, that most of Medvedczuk's name is ineffective, I want to first inform that the action "Rise, Ukraine!" Under the leadership of a well-known quartet, it failed because of the unprofessionalness of the leaders of this stock. And secondly, I want to say that we really, really need to look for a way out of this situation. And perhaps it would be appropriate for you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to gather the leaders of all factions and parliamentary groups to find out what options and scenarios we can consider on the political situation. I don't want this to be the way we signed a statement with "Our Ukraine" in our time, and the next day we were under pressure to gather people in the European square. And I wouldn't want this action or this consideration to turn into another farce. And if this is, for example, a statement from each faction and the MP group by one representative and there's no pressure on Parliament, maybe we'll go on and check for minority or opposition representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u100	Thank you. People's deputy Kenzior. And now I'm going to put to the vote for the cessation of Rizak's parliamentary powers. I think this should unite you, we should vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u101	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you can see from your desk that, unfortunately, the Supreme Council will not be able to work in this situation. We can't because we understand the underlying reason. The reason is that there is not today this majority that has been declared and registered. In this regard, I ask that we really begin to organize the work of the Supreme Council in view of the fact that, of the majority, there have been several national deputies and that today there are 225 national deputies, you really need to announce that the majority have been dismissed. She doesn't have one. And then, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Don't bother, boys. I'm sorry. And then, if, as Head of the Supreme Council, you're really interested and you're afraid that our legislature will work properly, please ask for courage, courage, strength, you'll be appreciated by all the deputies, go to the head of the administration, to the President, so that they don't help form a parliamentary majority. We'll be able to do this on our own in the session room. And you will be pleased to work with such a session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-17-m1.u102	Thank you, that's all. Turn off the microphone. Dear colleague, if necessary, I am only addressing the President of Ukraine. I'm putting to the vote the draft decree on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Rizak. Dear colleagues, I ask you to deal with the understanding that we need to make a decision. Please vote. For - 290. Decision taken. Honorable National Deputies, in view of what happened. That was enough today. I'll tell you what. In view of the fact that a number of factions call for a recess, and the fact that we are in fact working without result, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock.
