ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Please, dear fellows, take up your jobs. Dear colleagues! I very much ask you to take up your jobs. Sergey Vasilovich, please take your place. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. A total of 399 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, as well as Rishnjak Ivan Mikolaiovich. [[That's all she's got is her anniversary.]] Let us greet them, wish them well, health, and all manner of responsible work. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. In accordance with the Rules today we have a decision-making day; you have a list of issues. From the procedure? Please. Who's out of the procedure? The Turkinov People's Deputy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u2	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The faction did not understand on what grounds the leadership of the Supreme Council was violating the Rules and did not bring into order today the issue raised and addressed by the Regulatory Committee. [[This question concerns the submission of the Attorney General to Yulia Timoshenko]] In order to explain the Rules, we require that we give the floor to the First Deputy Regulatory Committee, Sergio Volodymyrovich Sassa. [[We understand that not everyone knows it perfectly, although it is time.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! In harmony with article 9.6 of the Bible. 1 Let me inform you of a document that has come to the Head of the Supreme Council from the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. The meeting of the Committee on 10 September 2002 discussed the submission by the Attorney-General of Ukraine of an agreement to bring criminal responsibility and the arrest of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna, and concluded that the submission of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for consent to be brought to criminal responsibility and the arrest of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna, is insufficiently motivated, does not contain specific facts and sufficient evidence at the individual points of the indictment. Thus, it does not meet the requirements of section 2 of article 9.6. 1 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Following a comprehensive discussion by the committee, it was decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to support the submission of the Attorney-General to consent to the criminalization and arrest of the Ukrainian national deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrina. The committee’s decisions and explanations by Ukraine’s national deputy, Timoshenko Yuli, are added on 47 sheets. Committee head Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. I got this document yesterday. Dear colleagues! In Part 3 of Article 9.6 1 The Rules states: "The application which does not meet these requirements shall be returned to the Attorney-General or to the Chief of the Supreme Court accordingly. This is immediately reported by the Supreme Council at the next meeting." As well as part 4 of article 9.6. 3 contains this position: "In the absence of sufficient evidence to justify the submission of the Presidency of the Supreme Council, together with the reasoned conclusion of the Commission, he has the right to return it to the Attorney-General or to the Head of the Supreme Court with an offer of further justification. In this case, the commission stops the examination, as reported by the Head of the Supreme Council, who informs the Supreme Council of this matter." Accordingly, and in accordance with the consultations I conducted last night with the head of the profiling committee on the subject, I made a decision. According to part 3 of article 9.6.1 and part 4 of article 6.9. 3 The Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in view of the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules, the MP's ethics and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of 10 September 2002, I return your application, the granting of consent to bring criminal responsibility and the arrest of the National Deputy of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna. [[I'm the one who's quoting the letter.]] Besides, your honors, I'd like to inform you. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, let me finish. One minute, dear fellows! In addition, at night I received a statement from a national MP who claimed that he had not voted in favour of such a decision. This is a statement by the People's Deputy of Korsakov. And in order not to make things difficult, I think it's better to return the application either to the committee or to the Attorney General's office. In accordance with the Rules, I have decided to return to the Attorney General's Office. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee has no such right. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, dear fellows, I'll give you my word. One minute. Well, take your seats, we'll discuss this from the procedure. We're going to discuss this question, my dear colleagues, I ask you all to take your seats, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand, Julia Volodymyr. I give you my word, you all sit down, Julia Volodymyrna will speak. Please, have a seat. I'm asking you not to scare me. I'm asking you to turn the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u4	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] Dear colleagues! For six years, under the leadership of the President, the Attorney General has abused me and my family. Today, there is the Attorney - General’s Office for the Supreme Council. This submission, according to the Rules, has been considered by the profile committee. I would like to point out that I have decided to reject the application as undisturbed. According to the Rules, the Supreme Council determines the date of consideration of the submitted submission, but not later than seven days after the decision has been taken by the committee. The Supreme Council should consider and decide whether or not to support the application of the Attorney General. I think I'm the first national MP to insist that the application be considered in the hall to make all of this public, all of the prosecution's abuses -- absolutely illegal and anti-constitutional. I want the Supreme Council to make it clear that if you're willing to make an arrest, then I'm ready to leave this room with Piscot, if you don't, then let me work quietly and live with my family. And I insist that we don't put that feed back there. Today we will return to the Attorney General's Office, and in two weeks he will send the media back to the Supreme Council, and then the Supreme Council will return to the Attorney-General's Office again under the supervision of the media. And so the political life of our team will be made up. I'm asking you to make any decision, but take it today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u5	The procedure is the National Deputy of Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u6	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Let's just calm down a little bit. The Supreme Council gave the final consent to bring Mr. Gerdicsky to justice. This was in November 2000. Five years later, the Constitution became effective. Five years have passed, and paragraph 13 of the “Transitional Regulations” of the Constitution is no longer in force, but article 29 is in force, where it is written that a precaution can be changed or applied only by a decision of the court. Let's stop the prosecutions from going to the Supreme Council. Let them go to court, and the Constitution, if the court decides, then we'll discuss it. Today, the Constitution is no longer in force, for five years have passed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u7	Comrade Assadchev, I understand that you support me in bringing me back? Now, one minute. Chairman of the Regulatory Committee, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u8	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the Rules Committee on this issue has made a decision, but I want to make it clear that, as Julia Volodymyrna said, it is not unanimous. A decision was taken by the chairman, seven members of the committee for such a decision, six against it. I'm surprised that a statement came from a member of the Committee of Korsakov. The decision has taken place, and it is what it is. I'm sorry, we voted in favour of seven, if you're more specific than four, they held on to two. So I think we should count today on the fact that seven members of the committee voted in favour of such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u9	What's your offer, Valentin Grigorovich? Turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u10	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Now I can't make on behalf of a committee of other proposals than those made in its decision of September 10th. All these documents are in the Supreme Council. The decision to appeal to the Supreme Council is not to support the submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine of an agreement to bring criminal responsibility and the arrest of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. I remind you again, nothing has been considered. [[Don't disturb me!]] Vote seven, versus four, held two. The first deputy chairman of the committee, he and the head of the working group, Gabriel Vasilovich, is assigned to speak at a meeting of the Supreme Council with information on the decision taken by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! Just a minute. We have a lot of procedure. Let's figure it out. How much time do we need to take to get out of the procedure? Let's sign up. Is there no objection? Let's take 10 minutes for procedural questions, one minute, please log in. Please record. I'd like you to check in on the sign-up board. National Deputy Komar, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u12	aol's subcommittee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules, MP's ethics and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[constituency 51, Donetsk Region]] Thank you. I think it's a fair offer from the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Considering also what Valentin Grigorovich Matviev said about what the vote was, then there were statements, I think we should support the proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u13	National Deputy Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u14	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption. [[ousted county 152, Poltavsk region]] Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u15	Turkinov People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block of July.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! As a member of the regulatory committee, I certainly participated in the consideration of this issue and would like to provide the following help. On the other hand, all members of the committee agreed that the submission was undisturbed and contravened both by the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy and the Rules of the Supreme Council and, above all, by the Constitution. But when the resolution was adopted, the positions were divided: a part of the national MPs offered to return the document to the Attorney General’s Office, a part of the deputies supported the offer of Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko to refuse consent and put it in the hall to publicize it, and seven deputies supported the position. Six deputies supported the position regarding the return of the document to the Attorney General’s Office. Under the pressure of the President's Administration, our colleagues are withdrawing their statements there. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We do not have a procedure for withdrawing our vote after the vote in either the Hall or the Committee. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues! Let us objectively say what is happening now. The President's administration has failed to form a majority to torture its opponents. That's the main problem, and that's why they want to play football with the Attorney General again. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we ask very much, despite the fact that the authorities are asking to return that she has not been prepared to destroy the people, to consider this issue in the hall. And if colleagues have questions about the Rules, he has prepared a presentation of the Rules for comments to the first deputy chairman of the Regulatory Committee, Sergio Volodymyrovich Sasa. And we ask, honourable colleagues, to vote in favour of this issue according to your honour and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u17	Infantry National Deputy, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u18	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, a constituency for Ukraine's One!]] I ask you to pass the word to Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u19	People's MP Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u20	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. [[Election District 224, Sevastopol]] You can be thrilled by the enthusiasm of people who are trying to force national MPs to accept a document they have no idea about. Even in the evening, we were not given documents that we could read, but only today did we receive them. And there was no way to study these documents to have an opinion on the substance of the matter. It's rude, but we've been working this week, there's a lot of questions -- voting, all of our attention is focused on preventing mistakes in the adoption of laws. And here is the delicate question: do we trust our judicial authority to consider essentially our own direct functions, or do we want to drag these functions to the Supreme Council, as we have almost done in the committee that stated in its document that there is insufficient evidence at the individual points of the accused? This function is not even taken over by a court of law. My suggestion is that since MPs are not familiar with submission, they are also not familiar with Timoshenko's explanations on 47 sheets, as the chairman said, allowing MPs to study these documents in factions, committees and, without sending them out, to put them on a stand-by basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u21	People's Deputy Hubsky, People's Rule Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u22	Deputy Aolo Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[constituency 196, Cherkas region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The question that we need to solve right now will be very complex. Because it's about the fate of a man, not just a man, but our fellow MP. I am quite sure that such questions need to be resolved with the completeness of the information. I don't know whose fault we didn't get any material today -- not the application of the Henprosecutor's office, not the explanation of Julia Volodymyr. [[whether it's the regulatory committee's fault or someone else's.]] Tell me, how can you make a decision? Who's gonna explain it to me? Vote from the voice? We're not in the nursery. I am absolutely sure that the decision that Vladimir Mikhailovich offers is entirely fair. You have to do the procedure, get to know the MPs about the materials. If there's guilt, it's one thing, if there's no guilt, it's another. But we need to vote clearly and know what we are voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u23	Thank you. The People's Deputies, the People's Choice Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u24	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[electoral district 113, Lugansk Region]] People's Choice Group. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! None of the deputies are familiar with this submission. At the direction of the group, I demand to be governed only by the Constitution. It infuriates the behavior of those who represent Timoshenko. Even from this rostrum, she is deceiving the entire MP Corps. We need to be guided only by the Constitution, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u25	National Deputy Karpov, faction of the People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u26	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, a constituency for Ukraine's One!]] Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules, Vladimir Mikhailovich provided an explanation of how the procedure for dealing with the matter takes place, and the reference to the Constitution in this case only reinforces this logic. What is it? If the committee is unable to make a reasoned decision, the submission shall be made for further processing. We need to understand that there is an appropriate procedure for dealing with this issue, which provides that the General Prosecutor should be present at the meetings of the commission that deals with this issue. Was he on a board meeting or was he not there? In accordance with the procedure for consideration of matters at the meeting, there should be a presence and an initiator should be present for consideration of a matter, the Attorney-General is absent, even this formal circumstance does not give any basis for consideration. [[This article is article 3.4.1.]] That's the first one. The other one. According to the procedure, materials from a particular matter should be distributed six days before the issue is discussed. Third. We don't have any material, and we just have to identify ourselves in the "irreconcilable conception" or Julius Volodymyrna, or the Attorney General, without any material or information, we just can't, in fact, in terms of the Rules and Procedure. Thus, in accordance with the Rules, the Head of the Supreme Council has made the right, legal, regulatory decision. The question is exhausted. We need to move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Our colleague Hapochka mentioned the name of the national deputy Timoshenko, who is entitled to a replica. Please turn on Julia Timoshenko’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u28	Dear friends! What a unique situation. People who are serious enough today by the President are demanding, not an examination of the application in the Hall, as they planned, but a virtual return to the Attorney General's Office. The images that came to my side, I think, are the norm of these people's behavior. I can say that if the application is undisturbed, there is a general notion of innocence. So if there wasn't anything to motivate, what, we'd have to go back ten times in six years to get them motivated? If all these charges were not passed on in six years, might there have been no need to violate criminal cases until there was no evidence and no motivation, and then gather them under the pressure of parliament? I'm asking you, dear friends, not to delay, because you had the opportunity to get to know this presentation on the pages of all the Presidential newspapers, they published it a week ago. They actually wrote it together. So there's nothing to get to know. We need to put it to a vote and make a decision for the pants and everybody else if the hand goes up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues! National MP Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u30	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 83, Zaporezki region]] Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u31	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u32	Thank you. The Communist faction. First of all, I'd like to tell my colleagues that they've been asking questions about the fact that the national MPs don't have the necessary materials. I repeat what I said at the beginning. Yesterday, on Wednesday, on behalf of the Committee, I signed the submission to the Supreme Council, as well as the decision of the Committee, and it came to the Supreme Council yesterday afternoon. Along with these documents, we have returned to the Chief of the Supreme Council and the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine. So all the documents that should have come from the Rules Committee came. Regarding the participation of the Attorney General, I say, in answer to my colleague Karpov’s question: yes, indeed, during the committee’s consideration of the appearance of the Attorney General, Sergey Markianovich, was present as Attorney General. In the sessions of the working group set up to study submission, both the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney General, Shockin, both took part in the meetings. So, starting with this question, at the committee's meeting, the question was: will we consider this very complex question, which concerns the fate of our fellow National Deputy Timoshenko, and she insisted on it, without the Attorney General present today in a foreign deployment? Eight members of the committee voted in favour of this issue being considered. And so we had no right not to do the will of most members of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u33	Thank you. Valentin Grigorovich, I'm just going to make a little clarification. Indeed, yesterday after the meeting, I received this document. If you're being politically correct, there's only the committee's decision and the explanation of Julia Timoshenko, the submission, unfortunately, you didn't pay me back. Dear colleagues! Time's up. The procedure urges the national MP, Sas. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u34	Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputies and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] Dear National Deputies! I think that in addressing such an extraordinary issue for the Supreme Council and society in general, as consenting to the criminal responsibility of the national MP, we should act in accordance with the Constitution and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. [[We don't have another way out.]] I must say that those comments of the Rules, spoken from the mouth of the Head of the Supreme Council, some of the national deputies, do not fully meet the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council. I will now brief you on the procedure for submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the next steps that have been taken within the Supreme Council. On August 22, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received an application from the Attorney-General for consent to bring criminal responsibility and the arrest of the National Deputy of Ukraine Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. On August 23, the chairman of the Supreme Council was instructed to prepare the Committee’s conclusion in accordance with the Rules. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 9 / 8 3 The Committee considered the matter as a matter of urgency and drew up a conclusion. It was September 10th. On September 11, the conclusion came to the Supreme Council, as informed by the Head of the Supreme Council. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 9 / 8 4 The Ukrainian Supreme Council regulations determine the date of consideration of the submission made at the meeting of the Supreme Council, but not later than seven days from the date of the conclusion by the Commission. Following the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine, the mandate of the presidency to organize the preparation of matters for consideration at the meetings of the Supreme Council is based on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 88, part two, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council arranges for the preparation of questions for consideration at meetings of the Supreme Council. The calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council for the following week, from September 16 to 20, is for work on committees and factions. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 9 / 8 4 The Supreme Council’s regulations in a different way than that of today’s meeting cannot. The special procedure for examining the submission of the Attorney General of the recruitment of a national MP to criminal responsibility does not require a decision to include the matter in the agenda. In accordance with part three of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine exercises the powers provided for in this Constitution in the order established by the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council, which, as you know, is in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court within a framework which does not conflict with the Constitution and the Rules. Thus, the determination of the day of consideration by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in compliance with the requirements of the Rules is his constitutional duty. With regard to the comments made by some national deputies regarding the need for the presence of the Attorney General, the Rules do not require this today. Regarding the materials distributed to the national deputies. I have the materials in my hands that came from the Rules Committee, and they were in the Registration Department yesterday, 13 o’clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u35	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u36	Therefore, in order for us to comply with the rules of the Rules, we must do so, as did the Chief of the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 9.6. 5 Rules for the opening of today’s plenary session on the issue of the filing of a prosecutor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u37	Thank you. Let's finish. People's deputy Carmazin insists on the procedure, that's all. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Karmazin. Time's up, Vladimir Alexanderovich. We took ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u38	aolo by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Alok Victor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I thank you for giving me my word. Part three of article 80 of the Constitution stipulates that Ukraine’s national deputies cannot be prosecuted or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I repeat, criminally charged. So we have to look at the attraction issues. Julius Tymoshenko’s demand for himself is entirely just. A number of newspapers, such as "2000" and others, have distributed the texts of submission, despite article 62 of the Constitution, which stipulates that a person is found innocent in committing a crime and cannot be punished until his guilt is brought to justice and established by an indictment. Deputies are not handed over to the Attorney General, newspapers are everywhere! How is the mystery of the investigation violated? This is a question I'm going to have to ask the Attorney General of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to send him this commission, maybe even now, to vote on how the media publishes this information when it doesn't even come to the MPs, and I think there's a reason, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, because there's no precedent as an organ today. I understand that you have to make decisions on your own, but today this decision must be made in accordance with the Rules and the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I therefore insist that we now make decisions in accordance with the Constitution. And let's find out, because there's already been a circulation, but there's no replication of the thoughts that were expressed by either the committee or Timoshenko or anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Head of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that, after all, the Attorney General's application was returned yesterday to the Documentary Security Department of the Supreme Council, as I said, for lunch, that is, it came from the committee. It came to your Documentary Security Department, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in connection with the fact that on August 23, you personally sent it to me through a field service. I personally returned you through your Documentary Services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u41	Thank you. Valentin Grigorovich, I was put on the table, there was no filing. I'll see if I can just apologize in advance. Dear colleagues, let's be general. Do you insist, Volodymyr Alexanderovich? Yavorowski insists, he said he would not sit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u42	aol's subcommittee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] Dear colleagues! Let's just calm down for a minute. We heard the committee's opinion and the committee's decision. The Supreme Council is a higher body, and the final decision is to be made by it. That's the first one. The other one. I think that when the Attorney General's Office is brutally violating the Constitution, forgetting that the Transitional Positions have already lost their power and validity, and still submits this document, that's all that would be enough to tell the prosecution. But what I'm trying to say is, dear colleagues, the most important thing. I think the decision of the Supreme Council today needs not Julia Timoshenko, but, above all, we, the deputies. If you want, it's some kind of code for our conscience. Look at how many years this question has been hanging over Ukrainian politics, eventually, over all honest people. I am absolutely convinced that today we must have courage and calmly, wisely vote on this decision. And it will be a political decision of the Supreme Council, it will be a code for our honor and our conscience. I want to say the last. We're being heard today by our constituents. I'm absolutely sure if there was anything against Julia Timoshenko, they would never have released her from prison, they would have rotted her there. It is among us today, and we realize that more politics is involved than rights. I very much ask you to vote today, and everything will be in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Positions determined. There was a first proposal, and according to the Rules I informed you that there is such a committee decision, which is the right of the Supreme Council to return this submission. One minute, Your Honor, you've made your statement, give me a chance, and I'll explain all the positions. This is the first position. The second position was that we should listen to this question. The third position that sounded like we needed to study all the materials in this regard. The fourth position is to determine the date on which the question is being heard. Right? Here are the four basic positions. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules, the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council has the right to return the documents to the Office of the Attorney-General without bringing the matter to the session room. But in order to have your position out of all the questions right now, I'm going to put four questions to the vote, let's put everything to the vote. In line with the order of arrival, I propose to support the Chief of the Supreme Council and to send the documents back to the Attorney General's Office. Please make up your mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] "For" - 191. The decision is not taken. The factions, please show me. Please, Your Honor, calm down. I'm acting according to the Rules. I want it to be as good as possible. Calm down. Dear colleagues! I remind everyone that a submission that does not meet the requirements is returned by the Presidency of the Supreme Council to the Attorney-General or the Head of the Supreme Court accordingly. [[a The application, as decided by the committee, does not meet the requirements of article 9.6.1 Part 3]] [[in this case, this is the Head of the Supreme Council.]] This is immediately reported by the Supreme Council at the next meeting. Next. Reading, fellow officers, one more point. In Part 4 of Article 9.6 3 writes: "In the absence of sufficient evidence to support the submission, the Presidency of the Supreme Council, together with the reasoned conclusion of the commission, has the right to return it to the Attorney General." [[and in the Committee's submission it is said that there is insufficient evidence]] [[the Commission’s reasoned conclusion is]] That's what I did. I say again, according to the decision of the session room, you don't need it. I don't vote. If you want, confirm, it's not necessary. The other one. Dear colleagues! We need to get the secretariat to process the materials that came from the committee and, along with the Attorney General's submission, to give you an update. [[B in m in s a l in]] National Deputy Assadchev. Please. Vote for what? On what basis?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u44	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like once again to read not only the article on consent to attraction but article 29 of the Constitution and paragraph 13 of the Transitional Regulations. My suggestion is that you not only send the case of Julia Timoshenko, but also send prosecutors from the Supreme Council once and for all, so that they will never go there, but to go to court. And when the court makes a reasoned decision on the need to consent to attraction, then we will consider. That was my offer. I would suggest that we act in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! Sit down, we'll solve it in a civilized way. Dear colleagues! I want to tell you again, and I held consultations with the head of the parliamentary committee on a number of occasions yesterday, that the whole content does not correspond to the resolution part, because there is good reason to return the documents to the Attorney General's Office. I did so in accordance with the Rules without breaking any standards. If you support it, we'll keep working. Dear colleagues, there is no need for this vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! At the suggestion of two factions, Fatherland and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, a break of up to 11 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! Please come into the session room and take your seats. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues! Please, take your jobs. Dear National Deputies! During the break that we made at the offer of the Julia Timoshenko Block, as well as the Socialist Party of Ukraine, I had a meeting with the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. In spite of the faction's insistence that this issue should be considered today in the session room, I am of the opinion that, on the basis of these works and conclusions, as well as the decision of the professional committee, this application should be returned to the Attorney-General's Office, requiring further justification in accordance with the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine. From the procedure, please ask Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! In fact, what happened today? There is, once again, a unanimous decision by the regulatory committee, on which I was present, that the decision and submission of the Attorney General's Office regarding the criminal offence against me is unmotivated. This is the question -- the question of the finding part -- that all the members of the regulatory committee unanimously acknowledged that this submission was unmotivated. But I want us to understand the question more deeply. In fact, there is a court ruling today that has vindicated all charges against the Attorney General's Office. [[You just don't know the country about it.]] Each charge has been examined in court and is recognized as totally unfounded, without an event or an act of crime. Today, according to my insistence, we should have considered in an open manner providing all the evidence and justifications for this submission. I appealed to all the fellow members of the National Deputies to publicly give their consent or disagreement to the General Prosecutor’s Office for submission regarding me. Even considering that the work carried out in the Office of the President in the Attorney General's Office, with every national deputy forcing me to vote in favour of my arrest, lasted two days, neither the Prosecutor's Office nor the President's Administration in those days have been able to press the national MPs. And that's why right now, under the insistence of the President's Administration, the Prosecutor's Office and everyone else, this application goes back to the Attorney-General's Office, so that the President and his surroundings will have the opportunity to press the deputies for two more weeks, to explain what criminal matters they have, to give certain privileges to keep me hidden for playing once and for all. I think in two weeks we'll be looking at this submission again. But I want to ask all of you to understand that we have today not the Presidential Parliamentary but the Presidential Republic, where Parliament, all politicians are under prosecutorial supervision, where everyone has everything in order for any economic or political decision that is in the law to be made under the pressure of the prosecutor's office. [[and no parliamentary-presidential republic will be created, as proposed by our Leonid Danilovich]] And you and I know perfectly well that the Attorney General, even as a candidate for this post, has gathered in our Parliament a constitutional majority when we voted for his appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u48	Julius Volodymyrically, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u49	Picked up why? Because there is a really repressive machine. And no MPs vote, first the prosecutor votes, then the MPs vote. I don't want that to happen to any of you. I don't want that to be the case with the laws we adopt. I just want us to listen to what Valerius Assadchev said and not allow the prosecution to be a host in Parliament and in the country anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u50	Julius Volodymyrically, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u51	And so if such submissions are yet to come, I ask you to really abide by the Constitution and not accept them at all in Parliament, unless the Attorney General can even motivate and constitutionally do so. I want us to think about the prospect, not our fear today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to say one thing: as Head of the Supreme Council, I am guided by your will and the Rules, not by the instructions that someone seems to give me. I'm out of the Rules, out of the need to protect every national MP. Please don't blame me for what I don't do. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind you that we have a day of voting today, and I would like to ask you, dear colleagues, to make up for the time spent and make the right decisions quickly. The draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Order of the Day of the Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 2170, is being introduced. Dear colleagues, we're going to take five minutes to communicate with the procedure and then we're going to vote. Please sign up. Please put the list on the board. National MP Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u53	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word to Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u54	National MP Nikolaynko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u55	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Electoral District 187, Herson District]] Thank you. The faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine asks that they be included in the agenda, and then we vote in favour of the draft decrees for the creation of a constitutional commission for the transition to the Parliamentary Presidential Republic, for the presentation on television of opposition representatives, for the transfer of the working week from December 23 to September 17 and for the initiation of the impeachment procedure. [[2158]] [[2167]] [[There are two options: Garmash, Martinyuk and others and Mikli Rudzkowski]] [[1177]] If these four draft decrees are included, we will vote in a friendly manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u56	Thank you. People's Deputy Tanyuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u57	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Please pass the word to Lord Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u58	Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u59	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yesterday a group of national deputies introduced a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Joulinsky, Udovenko, Stretovich and others]] [[2170-1]] In addition to what you have proposed to the Supreme Council, the project proposes to include five bills, namely: 1324, 2012, 2012-1, 2040 and 2050. At the Conciliation Council meeting on Monday, it was not agreed that these bills should be removed from the agenda. Unfortunately, the project introduced by a group of national deputies is not widespread. So there's some selective approach to document dissemination in the room -- I'm spreading it, and I'm not spreading it. Once again, I stress that the bill submitted by the National MP does not have the right to simply reject. Let the Supreme Council decide, but the National MP has the right to have his bill reviewed. The body of the legislative initiative is Ukraine’s national deputy, not the Supreme Council’s apparatus. Thank you. The "Our Ukraine" faction will not support the agenda unless these issues are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u60	Samoilik National Deputy, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u61	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Please support the introduction into the agenda of the daily session of the draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of scholarships for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to students of higher education institutions of orphans and children from low-security families and on the establishment of scholarships for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to students of the Kharkiv Institute of Tank Forces of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at Kharkiv University of Technology. [[2163]] [[2164]] By the way, it is the only military institution with the name of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And please remove the day-to-day draft of the decision to assign Dynamo to the Kyiv Stadium called Valeri Lobanovski, because this stadium is not state-owned, and the team has long been defined, you've seen it, and this stadium already has the name Valeri Lobanovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u62	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u63	This is Project 1015. And I would very much like to make those two draft decisions, which is very important for the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u64	Thank you, Your Honor, time is up. I would like to make an explanation for Gennady Josephovich’s comments on the formation of the order of the day’s fourth session of the Supreme Council. Dear Hennadia Josephovich! In harmony with part 1 of article 2.4. 2 The Supreme Council Rules " draft agenda for the day session of the Supreme Council shall be prepared by the Presidency of the Supreme Council in conjunction with the Conciliation Council of Deputies ". [[fractions]] Thus, the Supreme Council’s Rules do not provide for an alternative to the day - to - day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there are different views and positions, but according to our agreement I propose to vote in this order. Please listen carefully. The first is the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, 2170. In general, no exceptions have been removed, but taking into account the suggestions made by the national deputies Nikolaynko and Samuel. Please make up your mind. "For" - 199. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please don't shout, we'll settle this in civil order. Please show by factions. The people's deputy, Klukkowski, has the floor. Please. Let's just set the time, three minutes, or we'll just talk all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u65	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head! You have read the Rules perfectly correctly, but you have forgotten that there is still a constitutional right of a member to legislative initiative on each issue of the agenda of the session. Therefore, the bill, which was registered, you were obliged to distribute in the hall and then at the meeting you could discuss the procedure and decide the matter by voting. Now you're proposing to include changes from the oral proposal. So you don't look at our written proposal, but you include your lips. So let's stick to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say that the formation of the agenda is the prerogative of the Presidency of the Supreme Council and the Conciliation Council. And let's not confuse the right of the legislative initiative by trying to form a day-to-day order for the entire Supreme Council. National Deputy Yukhnowsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u67	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I haven't been able to get my word out, but I would like to ask you to submit a daily draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Special Investment and Innovation Activities in Technology Parks, 2183. I'm asking you to put this in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u68	Yeah, who else from the procedure? National MP Rudzkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u69	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. I point out to all the national MPs that Stanislaw Nikolayenka's speech was about bills that were introduced in writing and registered and distributed accordingly. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to put the order of the day-to-day second session to a vote today and to vote on draft regulations 2181 and 2181-1 on the postponement of the session in plenary mode from December 23 to the following week, from September 17th, because otherwise we cannot, we have to vote for the recess, and to allow the opposition to appear on television Friday, 2167. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u70	Turkey's national deputy, and time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! The faction of Yulia Timoshenko reminds you that, unfortunately, we have had cases during the last session when we lost several weeks in connection with the fact that the leadership of the Supreme Council has tried to remove political bills from the agenda that do not provide certain political forces, such as Leonid Kuchma and his environment. Therefore, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we insist that we vote in favour of the agenda for which our bills will be introduced, in particular the draft decrees for the initiation of the procedure for the removal of Kuchma L.D. of the office of President of Ukraine, the information of the Attorney General's Office regarding the investigation of allegations against the head of the State Tax Administration of Azarov of the abuse of office, the pressure on the subject of the electoral process and other political actors, the information of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the investigation of charges related to the murder of George Gongadze, and the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission for the investigation of the events on 9 March. [[1177]] [[1262]] [[1265]] [[1184]] So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, will vote in favour of the agenda where these questions will be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. You probably heard, or maybe even voted, I just put a draft ruling to the vote before that without any exceptions. The Supreme Council didn't support it, they didn't vote. So I am voting on the second proposal that was discussed at the Conciliation Council. May I have your attention, Your Honor, so they won't say they haven't heard. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Order of the Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the deletions proposed by the factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and supported by the other eight factions. [[2170]] [[united]] Please support this project as a basis for this. Please vote. "For" - 272. Decision taken. The factions, please show me. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Please note, we will now vote on the issues that have been removed. May I have your attention, please? I would like to propose to the vote an orderly draft Order on the initiation of the procedure for the removal of Kuchma Leonid Danilovich from the post of President of Ukraine in the order of impeachment and the establishment of a special interim commission of inquiry. [[1177]] Please make up your mind. "For" - 152. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, please listen carefully. The next question is the draft Decision on Information from the Attorney General's Office on the Investigation of the Charges of the Head of the State Tax Administration of the Ukraine of Azarov on the Abuse of Service, the Pressure on the Electoral Process Subjects of 2002, the Covering of Dirty Financial Machinations by Some Senior Officials and the Enforcement of Unlawful Orders in the Information given by Major Melnichenko. [[1262]] Please make up your mind. "For" - 157. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! It is up to the vote to put forward a proposal for a day-to-day draft Decision on information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the investigation of the allegations of the President of Ukraine Kuchma in connection with the murder of journalist Gongadze, the illegal arms trade, the pressure on the judiciary, the abuse of the office and the acquisition, the loss of public currency in particular large amounts. [[1265]] Please make up your mind. "For" - 151. The decision is not taken. The factions. Please note, the next question is the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the events that took place on 9 March 2001 in Kiev. [[1184]] Please make up your mind. "For" - 177. The decision is not taken. The factions. I am voting on the proposal by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine to introduce the draft Law on Restoration of Historical Justice in the Fight for Freedom and Independence of Ukraine. [[There were proposals for the Company's removal faction, and now we're voting on the introduction.]] [[1324]] I ask your honourable colleagues to vote on this matter. "For" - 176. Dear colleagues, procedure, please. National Deputy Cibenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u73	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I understand that you can use the procedure to put the word to the vote, and then, but it was important to me, I raised my hand, I argued my position directly before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u74	Sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! I think the decision that happened is absolutely right. I want to emphasize that I'm not going to motivate this decision from an ideological or political point of view, because I understand that this is the path to a dead end, let's say I'm going to motivate from the position of my political power and the right parties from my position. So as the author of the proposal for the non-admissibility of this bill, I relied on the fact that, above all, all international instruments recognize the state as a belligerent, not an organization. In this case, it's about recognizing as the warring side of the UN-OPA, or organization. So we did the right thing by not voting for the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! In view of my vague wording of the proposal, the draft Law on Restoration of Historical Justice in the Fight for Freedom and Independence of Ukraine is put to the vote for the agenda of the day session. [[1324]] Please vote. "For" - 272. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Take the factions and light them up. National MP Martinyuk, procedure, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u77	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! As soon as my colleague Cibenko spoke to the presiding officer, he was asked by procedure to give the floor before the vote, not after it. I would very much like, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to note this and from the procedure of pre-voting. That's the first one. The other one. I do not support my colleague, Peter Stepanovich, and I call your attention to violations of the Rules. No drafts on the non-admissibility of laws to the agenda are being put into place; they are being considered together with a bill. So Zybenko's initiative had no right to vote, because the bill was not put into the agenda. When the project is introduced and considered, the draft decision on non-admissibility shall be voted on. That's two. And third, last. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we now confirm the order of the day work of the session. I understand that we have to accept it, I understand, because I've been in your chair many times, how difficult and difficult it is for you to be there, but I would like you to understand the MPs and their interests. Let's not rush, let's not do what we just did. We immediately voted in favour of a question that is half-split by Ukraine and most of Ukraine against what we voted today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're still voting, I'm sorry I haven't noticed, I've already put on my glasses. We voted in favour of the Kendzior People's Deputy Project. So please have a seat. I would like to propose to the vote the daily drafts of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. [[2012, 2012-1]] Please vote. "For" - 304. Decision taken. The factions. The next question is the bill on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression. [[2040]] Please vote. "For" - 320. Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! It is up to the vote to put forward an orderly draft law on the recognition of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian rebel army as a belligerent in World War II. [[2050]] Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. People's deputy Koval. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u79	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich has refused the system, and the whole sector has not been involved. I don't know about the whole room because I didn't see any other remote controls, but. Pretty much everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u80	I'm talking to the hardware workers: is the system working now? May I have your attention, please? The bill on recognition of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian rebel army as a belligerent in World War II is put to the vote. [[2050]] Please make up your mind. "For" - 161. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the Sameilik People's Deputies to put the draft regulations 2163 and 2164 into order. It is the establishment of scholarships to the Supreme Council for Orphans, as well as to the students of the Kharkiv Institute of Tank Army of the Supreme Council. Please be supportive. "For" - 375. Dear colleagues! The National MP Rudzkowski made an offer to bring it into the agenda. Please, Your Honor, make your proposals again, I haven't been able to write it down. Please listen carefully, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u81	It is proposed that the daily draft regulations on the creation of the Constitutional Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the presentation of the opposition to television, on the transfer of plenary meetings from 23 December to 17 September, i.e. to the next week and the last project of 1177. [[2158]] [[2167]] [[2181]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u82	Dear colleague, we have already voted on Project 1177. I am voting on the proposal of the people's representative of Rudzkowski for the day-to-day session of the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Constitutional Commission for the processing of documents from the reform of the political system under the chairmanship of Mroz Alexander Alexandrovich. Please identify yourself, considering that there is an appropriate commission for the committee. "For" - 105. The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal of the People's Deputies for a day-to-day draft regulation to allow opposition to take place on television. [[2158]] Please make up your mind. "For" - 195. The decision is not taken. The factions. I am voting on the proposal of the people's representative of Rudzkowski to order a day-to-day draft decision to postpone the plenary session to September 17th. By schedule, we have a job in the districts. Please make up your mind. "For" - 188. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the national MP, Nikolayenko. Please, Your Honor, name the two draft regulations you're proposing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u83	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! My colleague Rudzkowski referred in principle to the draft regulations I proposed. A single draft of Decree 2181-1, introduced by Harmash and Martinyuk, was not voted on for a week of plenary meetings, but only one day, on September 17, the rest of the days for the committee to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, despite our vote, I once again propose to put into order the daily draft of colleagues Garmash and Martinyuk that we hold a plenary meeting on September 17th. Please make up your mind. "For" - 161. Dear colleagues! The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is based on the vote. Please vote. "For" - 259. Decision taken. [[Applause]] By factions, please explain. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnowsky has the motive. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u85	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I didn't realize whether Bill 2183 was automatically introduced, even though we didn't vote for it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u86	What's this bill about?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u87	Draft Law 2183 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u88	Entered.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u90	Doesn't he mind? Dear colleagues, a 30-minute recess is announced, up to 12 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u91	We're continuing our work. Please invite the deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We'll continue our work. Without you, no one will solve our tasks. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. You are being reviewed by the draft Ordinance on the Cessation of the Powers of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Alexenka. Since we have a decision-making day today, I would ask you not to have a discussion, but to vote immediately in any way for the questions provided for in the meeting schedule. Valentin Grigorovich, please have a word. Draft Decision to terminate the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Alexenka for the term of office. Dear colleagues! Obviously, there's no need to discuss this, is there? Please take your seats, we'll vote. A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Alexenka in connection with his death is being put to the vote. Please vote. Turn on the system, please. "For" - 329. Decision taken. You will be presented with a draft Ordinance on Ukrainian Government Day in November 2002. With a motive, please. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u92	Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! This proposal is made, as it says here, by the people's deputies Lithuania and Kručkov, but I would like to write it down for a protocol that actually another author of this legislative initiative is the national MP Gavrish. If you would like to reflect this, this is not marked in connection with my departure. That's the first one. The other one. We would very much like to see hard work in preparation, and here is a proposal to create a special commission that will prepare the materials, because it is about reforming the Armed Forces and social problems. And in this regard, they would ask the leadership of the Supreme Council to make preparations so that it would not be in the minister's office that all of this is said to have happened, but that both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister would speak. And the last. Colleague Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski made a proposal on Government Day in November to raise a rather important question about new scientific technologies. I personally strongly support this idea, but I would like to ask Mikhail Antonovich to accept the transfer of this issue to December or January so that November's Government Day is no longer overloaded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to vote on draft regulation 1261. [[B in m in s a l in]] With motive? National MP Domansky, countryman, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u94	Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! At the end of July, an event took place in Ukraine from which the world shuddered. This event has become a tragedy for Ukraine, for the Armed Forces, for someone who has lost a father or a mother, a daughter or a son. I'm talking about a disaster at the Sknilov airport. I am offended that the Supreme Council has not acted as a state organization in this situation. The enumeration of one-day earnings, the expression of condolences to the families of the deceased, the minutes of silence do not correspond to the level of the Supreme Council. Today, some in Ukraine want to use this tragedy to argue over the leadership of the Armed Forces by pursuing, driving, firing and so on. I believe that the Supreme Council should turn to this issue and hold a special meeting next week. The reason is not that the plane has fallen, the causes are deep, and the Supreme Council must understand why this is happening. For several years, we have been asking the leadership of the State to provide money and other services. I ask you to put on the agenda, and it is at this meeting that we decide when we should hold Government Day and other events to discuss the possibility of avoiding such incidents in the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have today's vote day, and I'd like to ask you once again: let's not agitate each other. These are very important, burning questions. I am voting on the draft Decree 2061 on the Day of Government of Ukraine in November 2002 with the agenda: "On the progress of the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and on the implementation of the requirements of effective legislation by the Government of Ukraine and the measures it is taking to strengthen the social protection of military personnel and members of their families, the state of retirement, medical, housing, transportation of military pensioners and military veterans." I'll bet the vote on the basis. There is a proposal to vote in general. I'm betting on the vote as a whole. Please be supportive. "For" - 374. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Your consideration is presented in the draft Decree 2061-1 on Government Day in November 2002 with the following agenda: "Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the Government's activities in the development of a state-owned recovery strategy and in support of its own production and development of highly competitive technologies: electronics, transport, information and communication systems, and so on, as the most important condition for the population's well-being and Ukraine's status as a developed country." [[Computer technology, telecommunications, autonomous and radio navigation systems, energy-saving technologies]] Is there a need for justification? One minute, dear fellows. We will listen to our colleague Pavlovsky, the author of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u96	aol's subcommittee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules, MP's ethics and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] Dear colleagues! I don't think we need to justify the relevance of this problem. I want to make an offer that won't interfere with the two issues that were raised by Georgi Korniovich. They're very relevant. So now, really not to create competition, and this is an important question, I support Georgi Korniyovich's proposal to move it to the government's Day for December. These issues are even interconnected, and we will radically address the problem of poverty and all other social problems if there is scientific production. I want to emphasize: scientific. I was at an international conference yesterday called "Technology Prediction," or strategy. Representatives from many countries have reported how their countries have reached a high level of development. And it turns out that in countries with high technology, wages are twenty-seven times higher than in those that are raw additives for them. This is a very important problem. And so I'm asking you to support my proposal to move the issue from November to December. And those questions that are suggested in November are also very important, and I ask them for their support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u97	I would like to vote on draft Decree 2061-1, with the amendment of the Pavlovski People's Deputies, to hold the Government's Day in December on this issue. Please make up your mind. "For" - 381. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! You will be presented with the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order of October and November 2002 of 2053. The draft decree is given to you. Is there a need to discuss it? I am voting on the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings in October and November 2002 in 2053. Please be supportive. "For" - 318. Decision taken. Thank you. You will be presented with a draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Young People at Number 2014. [[in November 2002]] The application initiator is national deputy Catherine Semenovna Samojlik. Is there a clarification? Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u98	In view of the fact that there will be both days of government and parliamentary hearings in November and the meetings of youth organizations with the leaders of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with factions, heads of committees that we have set up with you, I would like to ask that in this decree we set a clear record of parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine - November 27, at 16 o’clock. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to support this motion for a ruling, taking into account the proposals made by the Sameilik People's Deputy. Please vote. "For" - 363. Dear colleagues! The 2145 Bill on Parliamentary Hearings "On the Implementation of Legislation on the Development of General Secondary Education in Ukraine" is being submitted to your consideration. [[October 16, 2002]] I think the urgency of this question of doubt does not call anyone into question. Please vote. Please be supportive. "For" - 384. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Ukrainen Culture: Status and Perspectives of Development" is being submitted to your consideration. [[in November 2002]] This is the presentation of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Dear colleagues! I think we're just gonna have to get a date. But given the urgency of this problem, I think this issue should also be considered. I'm betting on a total vote of 1233. And as for the date, we're going to divorce and find out. Please be supportive. "For" - 397. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! You will be presented with a draft Supreme Council Regulation amending paragraph 7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the financial crisis of the Bank of Commerce of Ukraine and to verify the legality of its liquidation by number 2019. [[concerning the inclusion in the interim commission of inquiry of the People's Deputies]] The procedure is the National MP Martinyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I personally and our faction have absolutely nothing against the proposal of a national MP and, in fact, against the people's MP himself. But there are nuances that violate the Rules. The point is that by setting up commissions or commissions, we rule out the fact that the faction of the commission takes place in proportion to the number of factions and groups. We cannot guarantee right now that this rule of law is not being violated. Therefore, I propose not to take such a decision on the initiative of the People's Deputies, to send it to the Regulatory Committee for study, or to break the Rules, and then to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have included this document in both the agenda and the agenda. No doubt about it. Let's define by vote. We don't get the required number of votes, we vote in favour of the second decision. If the MP is taking the initiative and is willing to work for the common cause, I think this needs to be supported. I would like to ask my colleagues to vote in favour of the draft decision 2019 that I just sounded. Please vote. "For" - 311. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by a draft Ordinance granting leave to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for aviation fuel from the state reserve, 2118. You know that only the Supreme Council can make such a decision. Is there a need to discuss this? I ask your honourable colleagues to vote and support. This is essential to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Please vote in favour of the 2118 Supreme Council ruling. Please vote. "For" - 370. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! You're being reviewed by a draft Decree to refer a group of participants to the Great Homeland War on the construction of the Warfield Memorial complex, 2075. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? Dear colleagues! I'm willing to give the word out of procedure, but if we're talking about reconciliation, let's also support this project. People's MP Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u102	The Viktor Yuschenka faction "Our Ukraine", the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! In fact, in order to make use of this provision for reconciliation, we have made a proposal to add yet another clarification in order to achieve historical agreement in assessing all the actions that took place during the Second World War, regarding the fact that not only all those who died by the Soviet army but also all those who fought against fascism, including the fighters of the Ukrainian rebel army and the fighters of the resistance forces in various countries of the world, must be remembered. Then, indeed, it will be a historical memory. If this proposal is accepted, we will vote in favour. Without that, we will not be able to support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u103	Dear colleague! You make it up and give it to me so I can put it to the vote. People's deputy Kenzior. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u104	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Alok Victor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine"]] The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Now it's going to be like this kind of smooth, normal, peaceful work of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council has a unique chance of really starting some process of eliminating this resistance that we have for half a century, about the veterans of the Soviet Army and the veterans of the Ukrainian rebel army. If the Supreme Council today had been able to make such a decision that, in fact, there would be no price on this battlefield, such as the Spanish. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, try to convince all the deputies, let's take this step.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! The offer is understood, I think. Make it up and give it to me. National Deputy Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u106	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to say this. As I understand it, and I am the author of a draft ruling that is being voted on, if any proposals are to be made, they must be written in another document, discussed at a committee meeting, and then we will vote on it. A draft ruling is now being voted on, and I am the author of it. So I think we should vote on that document that was presented and considered by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u107	National deputy of the school. And, dear fellows, let's go to the vote. I'm going to propose how to vote, and we're going to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u108	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[electoral district 121, Lviv region]] I want to say that when we talk about national reconciliation, we have to remember one thing: It was not just the Great Homeland War, it was World War II. That's why I think the best and easiest solution to this question is to write in the draft decrees instead of "The Great Homeland War" "Participants in the Second World War." That's it. All questions will be answered immediately. I don't mind building this complex, but we need to make these changes, and I think the whole Supreme Council is going to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Let's, maybe we can make it up and then we can vote. I'm going to suggest what you're saying. Dear colleagues! Since such proposals have come, let's now calmly, peacefully, taking into account what we need reconciliation, as we say, let's vote on the basis of the document, then let's put to the vote the proposals put forward to complete the draft decree, as well as the proposal of the National Deputy of School, and then let's set out in general about this document. Is there no objection? Thus, fellow believers, we must vote. If the decision is not made, it should be sent for further work. Do you understand? And we can't just vote him out. Right? That's why I'm putting the draft Supreme Council ruling 2075 on the basis of the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. "For" is 350. I would like to include an addition to the proposal that this should be a memorial complex of honor and eternal memory for the winners of the Great Homeland War and all the participants in the liberation contests. Is that correct? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Dear colleagues! Let's vote, figure out what your position will be. Please! Dear colleagues! I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm asking you to determine. Please don't scream! But we voted on the basis, there's a complement, let's define. "For" - 205. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Well, we're clear, you don't have to! First. The other one. The National MP at school suggests that we write: "Victors in World War II." Is that what you're suggesting? Please vote for this proposal. Please be sure. We'll vote later, dear colleagues. "For" - 202. I'm betting on the vote as a whole on draft regulation 2075. Please vote. "For" - 272. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I think if another draft decision is introduced, we'll look at it and we'll define it. Show the factions, please. You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of Proceeds by Crime. [[second reading]] The procedure is Matthew. The Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! The Communist faction. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that only this morning, when we register, have you and I received a comparative table to consider this very complex bill, perhaps you will all agree, just today. This is a violation of the Rules because it is now necessary for the authors of the bill to report and make the appropriate decision. We cannot do that because our faction today has been discussing this issue for about 30 minutes without the final drafting of the bill, and it has been concluded that it cannot be considered today. We need to remove it from consideration, for we need to understand perfectly in all its positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u111	Thank you. National MP Rudzkowski. The next one is National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u112	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I support the previous speaker. We're not ready to consider this bill right now. We are against money laundering, but we cannot consider the bill without looking at or comparing the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u113	Thank you. National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u114	"Our Ukraine," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, I would like to draw your attention to what Deputy Matthews said quite correctly. Secondly, the text of the final edition, which was provided by the authors of the Committee on Finance and Banking, is illegal and unconstitutional. I personally made suggestions to many articles of this bill. However, according to the articles, they are not distributed, and this is motivated by the fact that this is a text from another bill that was. [[In the end it is written]] No matter how foolish or foolish a national MP wrote, it should be included in the table. That's the first one. The other one. This project proposes to modify the Criminal Code in general by introducing a concept such as precaital crimes. And in that way, of course, this bill can't be adopted. It should be postponed, the committee should be instructed to revise the table, obliging it to study the Constitution, the Rules, which provide for the right of each MP to include its amendments in the table. And then the hall will determine whether the nonsense is written or not. And this is not about Burjak or the other leaders of the so - called groups that were organized there. In fact, it is a simulation of the activities and lobbying of the interests of the financial clans.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! We've got a one-minute deadline. I'm asking you, let's stick to the rules so I don't use police sanctions or turn off the microphone. The position is clear. National Deputy Vaschuk. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u116	aolo by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, a constituency for Ukraine's One!]] Dear colleagues! We understand the importance of this problem and the need to adopt the law. But we, the agrarians, are alert to such a moment. There is a standard that when a person buys more than 10,000 euros in cash, he can be held accountable. We are concerned that when a farmer or a farmer who feeds bulls, pigs, or labors on the ground sold bread somewhere, collected money for a harvester, a tractor, and tomorrow went to buy it, old or worn, they would soon find it. For those who have hid millions and billions still walk in the wild, and there is suspicion that they will walk for so long. There is no such threat.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u117	It's clear now, Catherine Timothy. Dear colleagues! The position is clear. The committee is the national deputy Burak. And we'll figure it out. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u118	Aolo's Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[electoral district 193, Hmelnicka district]] Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to take the adoption and consideration of this bill from a political perspective to a logical one. At the direction of the President of the Supreme Council, a working group was established, which worked for two months. More than 1,000 amendments had been taken into account, the Committee had been provided, I stress, information support, a number of round tables had been held and so on, almost all the acute issues had been resolved. That's the first one. Second. On Tuesday, the Committee plans to consider a draft law relating to capital amnesty, which is exported and located inside. And third. I would like to emphasize that this will have some implications for the economy of Ukraine, and this will be felt by the private person who is using the Western Union system, and by the banker who has correspondence relations, both the exporter and the importer who will be limited in their conduct. The relevance of this bill is therefore clear. I suggest that it be considered on second reading and adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u119	National Deputy Assadchev. And on that end, the time is up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u120	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am, as always, out of procedure. What are we doing now? There's a second reading procedure. In the hands of the table, the interviewor stands on the stand and the second reading begins. Anyone who doesn’t like it or doesn’t count it, finds out on the second reading, votes are taken. What did we just start political debates? Either let's go to the second reading procedure, or let's take a picture of that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! We're going to have so endlessly. People's MP Klukkowski. We have today, once again, not a discussion, but a vote, we will be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u122	The Viktor Yuschenka faction "Our Ukraine", the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head and honourable fellow MPs! The topic of the bill is extremely important to Ukraine as an important state for us, important to all of our constituents. And so I'm very much asking you not to approach this very important bill as a gateway. This morning we are given this comparative table. It has 144 amendments. Just now, the committee head stated that more than one thousand amendments were included. I said, where are they? I want to remind you that when the author made an amendment and she was counted by the committee, it doesn't mean that the session room agrees with her. And so in such a law, we must insist that the second reading procedure be fully followed. I can see a lot of holes here. For example, it uses the word "crime operation" or something criminal. I would like to remind you that according to the Constitution, only a court can declare something criminal, not an appellation, not an apologetic position of executive power. So I ask that you postpone the consideration of this bill until the next plenary week. We're all going to study a comparative table, the committee has to bring everyone to this comparative table without exception a proposal -- both considered and rejected -- and then you can look at it in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u123	The offer is understood. For reasons such as these, the national deputy of Pavlovsky. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u124	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I wanted to clarify something. Under the Rules, we have the right to amend. And it takes six days. So the colleagues are right here, and we have to move it to the next plenary week. We are about to make amendments, and things will be objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! I have a palliative offer. Let's now assign a committee led by Burjak Sergey Vasilovich to work with the leaders of groups and factions. If we agree, we can go back after lunch. Otherwise it's a question then. Well, please, dear colleagues, let's postpone consideration of this matter. For if we act according to the procedure, we need to go out to the rostrum and vote now. Is there no objection to that? Thank you. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Food and Food Quality and Safety Act. [[about standards]] These are two documents: President of Ukraine's 1193 project, and the 1140 Cabinet project. National Deputy Polishchuk Mikola Efremovich. Need an explanation, Mikolo Efraemovich? You don't? Dear colleagues! There's a proposal to take the basis of both projects and prepare a second-readable project. Is there any objection? Mikolo Efraemovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u126	Aolo's Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[election district 214, Kiev]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! On the first reading of this bill, we have already adopted it. It's a second reading. This bill no longer needs any amendments, it has been discussed in detail, and last time it was adopted by a majority of votes. So it is suggested that we accept it in that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! There's two bills. So I would like to do this: vote each project separately as a basis and then assign a coordinated project to prepare for the second reading. Is there no objection? I'm betting on draft law 1193 as a basis. Please vote. Well, you betcha what. "For" - 329. So we have the committee prepare for the second reading, taking into account the proposals contained in the government bill. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on liability and monitoring of social insurance contributions]] This is a project by the President of Ukraine. Reporter from the Vernigor Leonid Mikhailovich Committee. Is there a need to discuss this document? VOICES FROM THE PLACE. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u128	I put the vote on the basis of the first reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. "For" - 309. Decision taken. Thank you. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and the Act on Pay for Work. The committee's proposing a rejection. The honourable chairman of the committee, is there a need to argue this document? Please suggest. From the committee, the people’s deputy Suhiy has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u129	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[electoral district 79, Zaporezki region]] Dear National Deputies! I have to prove to you that this bill is listed as urgent, and the committee has decided to reject it, given that the proposed amendments to article 9 of the Act do not meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees. That's the first one. The other one. The Committee believes that the application of the minimum hourly wage as a State guarantee at present will not contribute to the increase in wages. I'll tell you what an hour's salary is -- 99 copies. Third. It should also be noted that part two of article 21 of the Ukrainian Professional Associations Act provides that these projects are to be agreed upon. Neither the trade union nor the SPT have agreed to this bill. And the last. The minimum wage should be set at a level not lower than the minimum wage, not with the minimum wage, as proposed in this bill. That's why the committee decided to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! In accordance with the procedure, the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Act on the Paying for Work is submitted to the vote. Please vote. As far as the government is concerned, you had the opportunity to campaign for this document during its plenary session. Please, I'll bet you a vote. Please be supportive. "For" - 257. Decision taken. Take the factions and light them up. The draft Law on the Concept of the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union legislation is being submitted to your consideration. There is a proposal for the committee to adopt this bill as a basis. Is there no objection? The draft Law on the Concept of the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation, 1191, is on the vote for adoption. Please be supportive. "For" - 336. Decision taken. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities, 1120. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? National MP Moses, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u131	Aolo's Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[constituency 87, Ivano-Frankiv region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to withdraw the bill and transfer it to another term that I'm going to report to you in writing later.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u132	Your Honor, is this a committee decision or an offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u133	My proposal is like the head of a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u134	People's MP Gurenco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u135	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues! When the Customs Code was being worked on in our committee, the problem was repeatedly discussed and, in my opinion, the hall was resolved when we voted in favour of the Customs Code. We believe that one more body cannot be granted the right to search and search, enough in our Ukraine. By the way, there's a representative of the Ukrainian Security Service who's fighting smuggling, and that's enough. So I urge you to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u136	National Deputy Karnauh, and we will be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! I support Gurenko's proposal and I believe that there is no need and no need for customs authorities to grant the right to carry out operational search activities. It's an indisposed function, and it's going to cost a lot of money. I don't think it's necessary and the bill has to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u138	Thank you. People's deputies, the cook and the king, and we'll finish. Good, you too. National MP Zvaric. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u139	Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for European Integration. [[electoral district 90, Ivano-Frankiv region]] Dear colleagues! I will not repeat what has been said here, especially by Deputy Gurenko, who is absolutely right at this point. I just want to add and remind everyone that breaking customs rules is an exclusive administrative offence, and they can't be treated in any way within the framework of criminal law. So I agree that this bill should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u140	People's Deputy King. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u141	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[constituency 202, Cherniewec region]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think it's up to date, it's going to be up to date, and it's going to be up to date. However, considering that the Customs Code will enter into force only on January 1, this issue will be considered only after it has become effective. If necessary, this question will be brought to the attention, and now we just have to get it out of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u142	Thank you. Baranovsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u143	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Thank you. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind everyone that we have 1 million people with guns in our hands today in Ukraine. And so many bodies are doing a search-and-research activity that I don't understand who the tax collectors are going to recruit in their knockers, who they could have already recruited. Therefore, it is not possible to create another closed system — self - detection, self - investigation, and so on. The bill simply needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we should stop this discussion. Accordingly, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt Bill 1120 as a basis for the first reading. Please vote. "To" - 53. Thus, there is no need to vote for rejection, and the bill is rejected. For your consideration, Your Honorary Colleagues, there is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, 1109. [[on the functioning of the penitentiary system]] We've been looking at it, there's a committee decision to take as a basis. Is there no need to discuss this? The draft decision of the Supreme Council 1109/p, i.e. to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading, is put to the vote. Please vote. "For" - 349. Or would the committee propose to vote in general? It's clear. Oh, no? Well, if the committee doesn't want to. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Regulations on the situation in the village of Shadow Coupian district of Kharkiv district, 1170 and 1170-1. Do you understand this, or should we put the vote in order of coming here so that we don't discuss it? People's deputy Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u145	Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. Dear fellow national MPs! When the Earth Code was adopted, our committee colleague said that with the first blood shedding, we would have a real action of the Earth Code, which was adopted in violation of the Rules. Today we already have such a precedent. The Socialist Party faction warned of such a danger. I thank the agrarian committee very much for looking into this question, and the colleagues in the session room -- that's all. Close your eyes to the problems caused by the adoption of the new Earth Code, and especially in the village of Shadow Coupian district of Kharkiv, you simply cannot. So I'm asking, first of all, to remove the name Medvedchuk in the voting process, because he's done his mandate, and also to set a deadline when the Attorney General's Office will report to us at least on the current state of the investigation, on how land relations are being reformed not only in this village, but also in Ukraine in general. This classified information is, has been reported to the President of Ukraine, and is hidden from Ukrainian national deputies. So I will ask you to provide such information for our consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u146	Thank you, Valentina. It's all clear. The committee shall have the floor of the national deputy, Lechchenko, and we shall vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u147	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This issue was indeed addressed by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. With the essence of the matter raised by the National MP Valentina Seminyuk, the committee agreed, but the draft decree 1170-1 was drafted. I propose that the committee vote in favour of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in the order of coming, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 1170, introduced by the People's Deputies of Semenyuk and Shibko, on the basis of this. Please vote. Identify yourself, please. "To" - 98. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the draft regulation 1170-1, introduced by the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Reform, is put to the vote for adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. "For" - 197. The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next question. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, 1270. [[on the provision of agricultural products with oil and oil products]] This is a project of a group of national MPs. Dear colleagues, you remember that during the last days of the first session we discussed the bill. There is a proposal by the Committee on Finance and Banking to reject it. I'll bet the vote on the order of arrival. Please vote in favour of adopting this bill as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. "To" - 84. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! You are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, 1110. [[on the change in the name of the village fire guard]] The project is given to you, and the committee suggests that it be adopted in the first reading and generally as a law of Ukraine. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote to accept it in the first reading and in general as a law. Please vote. Please be supportive. "For" - 363. Dear colleagues, in order to maintain legal purity, I put this project to the vote as a whole as a law. Please vote. "For" - 392. Decision taken. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Savings of Ukrainian Citizens, 1112. This is a project of a group of national MPs. There is a proposal for the committee to take as a basis. Is there no objection? People's MP Matthews has a vote for the vote, please. Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Matvienka from the group "European Choice".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u149	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[constituency 66, Žitomir district]] Thank you. Group "European Choice." Dear National Deputies! I would still suggest that this bill should be sent to the Committee on Finance and Banking, because it provides for the financing of funds that will go towards paying off the government's debt to citizens from savings in the former USSR State, introducing 25 percent of the accounts of commercial banks that require appropriate changes to the tax law. In this regard, and in view of the fact that one of the banks has been named Agrobank, which no longer actually exists, I believe that such a law will simply not be implemented, and I propose that its draft be sent for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u150	Thank you, positions are clear. Dear colleagues, vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Savings of Ukrainian Citizens. Please make up your mind. "To" - 140. The decision is not taken. Project rejected. The factions. You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002 and the use of the funds of the Ukrainian Cabinet reserve fund in the current year, 1362. The project is a committee, you're familiar with the project. If there's no objection, I'm voting on the proposal to accept this document as a basis. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. "For" - 181. The decision is not taken. I'd like the committee to rework, go back to this document. Let's see the factions. For reasons of vote, there is the national MP Rudzikowski, a faction of socialists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u151	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'm going to the faction "Our Ukraine" right now: if you don't vote for the laws on the return of savings to citizens, how are you going to go to the presidential election? You must act in accordance with the requirements of the electorate. I am convinced that such a position is unprincipled.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u152	Thank you. Turn off the microphone, please. National Deputy Assadchev, and we'll move on. Dear colleagues, please, let's not go wall to wall, we're voting civilly, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u153	I want to answer Mr. Rudzkowski, how we're going to go to the citizens and what we're going to say. We'll tell them there's nothing for citizens under this law. Today, there are already 10 times as much compensation as is planned in this bill, and in the 2003 budget we are planning to bet even more. This bill is, excuse me, desert, just propaganda, so we voted against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending article 9 of the Law on Foreign Economics, 1066, is being submitted to your consideration. The committee suggests that the first reading be based. From the procedure, there is a national MP, Martinyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u155	Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You remember when we discussed this bill in the last session, there was a conflict. We need to know what we're voting for. The point was that the Cabinet of Ministers made one proposal, and in a comparative table to the bill, the proposal was expanded. That is, the Cabinet of Ministers suggested that we allow them to implement the decisions of the United Nations Security Council, and the authors added "and other international bodies" in a comparative table. That is, they have greatly expanded what the Prime Minister has proposed. So let's make it clear what we're voting for, and then we'll vote consciously.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I think we have the right of legislative initiative in the Cabinet of Ministers, we vote in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask you to point that out in the transcript, and I ask you to vote for this document on the basis. Project 1066 is put to the vote. Please vote. You're absolutely right, Adam Ivanovich. "For." 373. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers’ Obligations to Budgets and State Funds, 1024. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. People's MP Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u157	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Alok Victor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine"]] Dear friends! Well, you can't take things that are supposed to cancel your tax debt due to payback. We solve one problem, and who will solve the problem of doctors, teachers, military, pensioners? And the experience of writing off debt shows that it is accumulated again. This problem needs to be solved differently. You can't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote in order for the proposals to come. Please vote in favour of passing Bill 1024 as a basis. This is a committee proposal. Please vote. "To" - 140. The bill was rejected. By factions, please explain. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, 1158. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. With the motive of the national MP Baranowski, a fellow countryman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u159	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! In my view, it is not appropriate to make changes to laws in the field. For example, about the responsibility for energy theft, in motor vehicles, tomorrow we will take on construction and so forth. There are general concepts of grand or other grand theft, and there are appropriate penalties for criminal and criminal proceedings in Ukraine. You'll see what's proposed here. The one who steals a million dollars will agree with the inspector tomorrow, will share, and will not be responsible. And if one of those questions fails to pay, the article will be found tomorrow, and he will be five years old for two potatoes in 1937. I'm paying attention to one more thing. The foreign owners of the skyscrapers who have captured them today will be planting our citizens tomorrow. You can't do that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u160	Thank you. National Deputy Drogunzov, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u161	Deputy Aolo Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I support the proposal to reject this bill. First, in the face of the total poverty of our people, the introduction of this law will lead to half the population of Ukraine being imprisoned. Secondly, in fact, we give the power supply authorities the right to operational and search activities. They'll be able to go into any house, search or whatever, and bring the case to trial. This is a gross violation of the Constitution. Keep going. I think the sanctions provided for in this bill are very severe - up to eight years in prison. Even for murder, we give five or six years, which means to have that punishment, we have to kill 20 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u162	Thank you. You don't have to kill anyone. People's MP Klukkowski. Dear colleagues, this is a discussion. We're about to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u163	The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! There is a problem with the passage of this bill. We need to understand that criminal and criminal law is a very specific sector. There's a committee in the Supreme Council that's very sensitive to these issues, and it's true that a tailor should know his own tie, not his own sewing. The bill was not discussed in the Committee on Legislative Security, which is a criminal law-related activity, so it simply has no right to be considered in the session room. It's this committee that should conclude, not a sector, about the fuel-energy complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u164	Thank you. National Deputy Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u165	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[electoral district 219, Kiev]] "Our Ukraine," the Reform and Order Party. Dear friends! I think the profile committee should come up with proposals, I'm supporting Klukkowski, the legal committees should look at them. However, we have one - sided understanding of energy violations, since human rights violations in energy occur when those who pay are excluded, along with those who do not pay. It is vital that we consider this position because we put thousands of people who are underpaid into such a situation. And non-payers should be instructed to learn how much electricity is being used today. However, this issue is legal and economic, and they should be considered on the appropriate committees. So today this bill is not quite ready to be considered in the hall, but there is a problem that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, you remember that we made a warning during the discussion, and now let us determine by vote. In line with my coming, I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt this bill as a basis. Please make up your mind. Please. "To" - 82. The decision is not taken. I'd like to ask the two committees to do some more work so that I don't reject this document at all. By law, it is rejected. Maybe they'll work on it, they'll make a new one. I said it was off-limits. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by a draft Decision on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine to implement the Poverty Reduction Strategy in Ukraine. Yesterday we discussed this problem, my dear colleagues, there are two projects: 2136 and 2136-1. The first was introduced by the Committee on Special Policy and Work, and the second was by the National MPs of the Committee on Economic Policy. Then let's vote in order for these projects to come. There's no need to discuss it, dear colleagues? People's MP Gurenco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u167	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are dealing in fact with the same documents, with one exception. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour has not clearly defined, let's say, the evaluation of government activities, and the Committee on Economic Policy has identified itself and proposes that the government's work on this issue be considered unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u168	People's MP Melniczuk, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u169	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Last night, I had the opportunity to attend a meeting where virtually all the governors — Yanukovitch, Vishiwanuk, and others — were present. They were speaking and saying what big economic steps had been taken, what was being done for the people, just as everything was doing very well in our country. And today we have to say in the Supreme Council, without supporting our poor governors, to make decisions and to support the government, that is, to admit that we have the poor. Then let us also acknowledge this in the media. I'm practically not voting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you once again that Project 2136 was introduced by the Committee on Social Policy and Work, which suggests that the government's work is insufficient. Project 2136-1 was implemented by Gurenko, Demöchin, and Matviev. The difference is that they offer the government’s work on this issue to be considered unsatisfactory. With that in mind, I'm asking you to identify yourself. Clarification? Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is not a proposal of deputies, this is a decision of a committee that was unanimously taken at a committee meeting, to find the government unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! The draft ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2136, which proposes that the government's work in this matter be considered insufficient, is put to the vote. I'd like you to vote for the National People's Deputies. Take it as a base. "For" - 210. The decision is not taken. The draft regulation 2136-1, which proposes that the government's work in this direction be considered unsatisfactory, is put to the vote. Please vote on the basis. "For" - 209. The decision is not taken. The factions. I invite the committees to work on and make a coherent project, then we may vote. Dear colleagues! You will be given a draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of State policy on the implementation of Ukraine's laws on the natural and cultural heritage and on the protection of cultural heritage and on compliance by officials with the requirements of law in force with regard to the National Hortician Reserve and other historical and cultural reserves and natural-indictment funds. You're given two projects, 2168, by the people's deputies Rizak and Tanjuk, officially from the committees, and 2168-1. The difference between them is essentially the same, if you've noticed, with previous projects. From the procedure, the national deputy of Yavorowski has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! In your memory, we literally discussed this complex issue of conservation and cultural memory yesterday. I think that if we are to vote peacefully today, we need to remove one misunderstanding. In the draft decree, the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in the ecological direction is considered insufficient, and the work of cultural preservation is insufficient. I'm convinced that it's deeply unfair because it's unfair for us today to consider that the better is the problems we have in Horticia, or that Bakai today, in fact, has built a house on the bones of the Cossacks, and in Yavorov Park they're cutting off the amazing species of our forest. So I propose that we recognize the government's work as insufficient in both directions. This will be fair and objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u174	Thank you. People's Deputies are dry, and we'll vote. Dear colleagues, yesterday we discussed this issue, now we will be determined by vote. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u175	Dear National Deputies! In draft regulation 2168-1, which we have made with the Ukrainian National MP Pecklesenk, the government's work is proposed to be considered insufficient. This is the first time. And secondly, I say to the transcript, our bill foresees the additions that the National Deputy of Ukraine of Kosovo has made: the restoration of the activities of the Lviv National Historical and Cultural Reserve, the consideration of the creation of historical architectural reserves in other cities of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture and the art of restoring the work of the All-Ukrainian Society for the Protection of History and Culture Monuments, and the establishment of the National Monument Protection Service in accordance with the Cultural Heritage Act. Please support Bill 2168-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u176	Thank you. Boris Ilchi Oliynik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u177	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The program’s developers worked very well, not only critically, but also affectionately toward the subjects they were considering. And I would like to add to these objects Trachtemires and Stone Mogila. And in terms of assessing the government's work, to unify: both there and there, to admit work is not enough, because the minister of culture has just started work, and only on March 30th he was instructed to do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u178	People's Deputy Tanjuk. Please. Dear colleagues, obviously we're not going to get along here. Perhaps it would be better to work on and make one coherent project? That would be the best.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u179	I think that one of these coordinated projects is practically consistent. Of course, we have to vote in favour of Project 2168 with two amendments that will remove possible objections. Boris Oilynik's first amendment to recognize the government's activity in the sphere of ecology and culture is not unsatisfactory, but insufficient. This will reconcile, as it were, all sides, and I think we need to support it. And yet we need to support the proposal of National Deputy Michael Kosiv to add to paragraph 4: recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers resume the activities of the Lviv State Historical and Cultural Reserve, consider the creation of historical and cultural reserves in other cities of Ukraine, such as Kiev, Odessa, Lucca, Kamyanci Podilski. What are we talking about? As early as 1975, the Soviet authorities in Lviv and Lviv created an architectural state reserve that covers up to 70 percent of the cultural monuments of history. In 1991, however, the city authorities of Lviv eliminated the reserve and created some kind of association, the management of cultural monuments. This is contrary to our international status, because UNESCO has taken this centre under protection. So if we now make our decision to restore the work of this reserve, it will be mere historical justice. And another very important proposal by Kosovo under the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act to form the State Memorial Protection Service as the central body of state policy. The draft regulation refers to this organ, but it is not created. We say: strengthen, give him a base, but this body is not legally created today. If the Supreme Council does give us the obligation to comply with the law and finally create this organ, then we can demand it to protect the cultural monuments.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u181	And the Ministry of Culture to resuscitate and activate the work of the All - Ukrainian Society for the Protection of History and Culture. [[This is paragraph 2]] We talked a lot about these public organizations, let them work, let them work. So I would like to vote in favour of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, just as Kosovo and Boris Oliynik have amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the performances. I would suggest that we do so. Dear colleagues, now, during the break, let's make all the amendments and immediately after the break, we will vote in favour of the agreed document. We're not gonna take him out of the voice right now. The hall was split in half. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, I propose: let's vote on Project 2168 as a basis to be able to finalize and submit one harmonized document. Is there no objection? And we'll vote in full after the break. Please vote. "For" - 369. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue our work at 4:00. Please don't be late.
