ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m1.u1	Please, Your Honor, take your seats and prepare for registration. Please take your seats! What are some other words that you might say? Dear colleagues, take your seats! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[17:56:28]] Registered -322 There are 322 National Deputies registered in the Hall, and the evening session of the Supreme Council is open. Please return my card, again. Dear colleagues, the Interim Committee of Accounts has been working hard on the counting of votes. That's why we have to wait. When they're done, they'll tell us and announce the results. So I'm asking you to take another 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m1.u2	We're continuing our meeting. The word is given to the head of the Temporary Committee of Counting. Please turn on Vladimir Hare's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m1.u3	Dear National Deputies! Let me introduce you to the results of the vote. Protocol No. 2 of the meeting of the Provisional Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Present: Head of the Temporary Committee of the Rabbit, Deputy Head of Tereshuk, Secretary of Homenko Members of the Ioffe, Mirimsky, Potapov, Festival, Skin A summary of the names of the draft Resolutions on the release of Stelmaq from office of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and the appointment of Tihypco as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, on the heads and first deputies of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, the head and first Deputy Head of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization, on the lifting of the results of the vote for the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 21 November 2002 on the adoption in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2003. On the basis of the results of the roll-call vote, the Interim Counting Commission established: The number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized as being 449, Number of Ukrainian national deputies who received ballot papers for the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the release of Stelmach from the post of head of the National Bank of Ukraine - 257. Number of Ukrainian national deputies who participated in the vote on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Stelmah from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine - 246, The number of ballots declared invalid is 3, The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received nominations for the draft Supreme Council rulings on the appointment of Tihypek as head of the National Bank of Ukraine, on the heads and first deputies of the Supreme Council Committees of Ukraine on the 4th call, on the head and first deputy head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization, on the lifting of the results of the vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 21 November 2002, on the adoption in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2003 - 257. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who participated in the vote on the draft decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Tihypek as head of the National Bank, on the heads and first deputies of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call, on the head and first deputy head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization, on the lifting of the results of the vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 21 November 2002 on the adoption of the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2003 - 244. Number of invalid ballots, 2. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Stelmach from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine: for -232, against - 10, was retained 1. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint Tihypak as head of the National Bank of Ukraine: for -232, against 10, held -0. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Heads and First Deputy Heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call, the Head and First Deputy Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization 229 - "for", "against" - 12, "retained" - one. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the lifting of voting results for the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 21 November 2002 on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2003 - "for" - 227, "against" - 13, "retained" - 2. In accordance with Chapter 3.6 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the interim counting commission decided: the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the release of Stelma from office of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine", "On the appointment of Tihypka as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine", "On the heads and first deputies of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fourth Appeal, Head and First Deputy Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization", "On the lifting of the results of the vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order of 21 November 2002 on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003" were adopted as a whole." The head of the interim commission is the signature, the deputy head of the interim commission is the signature, the secretary, the members are the signatures. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] VOICES FROM THE PLACE. Shame, shame, shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-17-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, I think we're all in the right mood. Let's do it. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
