ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system, please. Please register. [[10:02:46]] Registered -384 There are 384 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister of Ukraine Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach and members of the government are participating in the session. [[Applause]] Honorary colleagues, as you know, are appointed by President Piscoon Svetoslav Mihajlovich, President of Ukraine, by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, who is a member of the High Council of Justice. In accordance with article 17 of the Act on the Higher Council of Justice, members of the Council shall, before taking office, make an oath at the meeting of the Supreme Council. Piscoslav Mikhajlovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u2	I, Piscoslav Mikhajlovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u3	Yes, let's welcome the conclusion of the Attorney General's oath, we wish you success in your work. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to the Rules today, the Supreme Council of Decisions. I would ask that we work quickly, since we need to accept a lot of documents. Order of business today, schedule of meetings you have. I'd like to ask the head of the Counting Commission of the People's Deputy Mishur to be us. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we need to vote during a 12 - hour recess of the judges of the Constitutional Court, I would like to ask your approval to confirm the mandate of the Temporary Counting Commission in charge of the People’s Deputies and to hold a vote. Is there no objection? I ask you to support the vote, Your Honor. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:06:00]] For 329 "For" - 329. Decision taken. Thank you. For consideration. From the procedure? Please, National Deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u4	Thank you. I have a matter of procedure. Here in the daytime order is followed by a reduced procedure on the draft electoral system regulation. We have not considered this issue in the Supreme Council. And I have a very big request that if this matter is to be voted on, you should take at least a little time to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u5	Okay, thanks. National MP Bespalii, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u6	Dear Chief! Here in the day-to-day reading is the draft of Law 1156 on Preventing the Laundering of Illegal Income. This Law was adopted only on July 4, the first reading, according to the Supreme Council Rules, is given only two weeks to make proposals and amendments. In an extreme case, this term is allowed to be reduced to one week, and a week later, this very important law is already in place for adoption in a second reading. This is also a case of gross violation of the Rules, which is unacceptable. But this law is extremely important in fact, and it has the public's attention attached to it, and the President has defined it as urgent that we adopt it in the first reading. And today we have no reason to consider it in our second reading. Of course, our faction cannot participate in such an examination, and you can take it out of the order of the day where it is to be found simply by misunderstanding. This refers to 1156 - 1, please remove it from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u7	Dear colleague! I'll give you an answer right now because we have a meeting schedule that's been voted on, but there's a proposal by the Committee on Finance and Banking that actually matches your proposal. And it will be proposed to be transferred to the autumn to work with all the proposals that are from the national MPs. Let's get down to business on schedule. Your consideration is being made. People's deputy to the Hapocha procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u8	May I have the floor to Mr. Fomenko's deputy?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u9	National Deputy Fomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u10	Fomenko, 114 constituency. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please include in the agenda the daily plenary meeting of the Supreme Council a review of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Temporary Special Commission on Economic Grounding of Sources and Mechanisms for Restoring the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u11	Thank you. National MP Sinchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to see a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to establish a provisional commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council on the verification of the illegal arms and military property trade and their illegal transfer to other countries. We agree on this issue with the leaders of all factions, and all factions have delegated their representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u13	Thank you. National MP Ivan Fedorovich Kuras, faction of the Ukraine region, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u14	The Honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, 8th number, was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate mass violations of electoral legislation during the elections to the Supreme Council and local self-government bodies in the Donetsk Region, the cities of Odessa, Kirovograd and in January-March and June this year. They were made up of five deputies, not many representatives from, practically, most factions. Our faction proposes to complement this commission with the following national deputies: Coloniary Alexander Petrovich, Rieznik Igor Josephovich, Noshenko Mikola Petrovich, Potapov Vasil Ivanovich, Hare Vladimir Volodymyrovich (Faction "Social Democrats of Ukraine (United)"), Martinovsky Valerij Pavlovich ("Agrarians of Ukraine"), Melnikov Mikola Petrovich ("The People's Choice") and Ryabikin Pavel Petrovich (Group "The People's Government"). [[faction of the "Regions of Ukraine"]] [["Democratic Initiatives" group]] [["Industry and Hard Ukraine"]] [[European Choice Group]] Request to put this question to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u15	Thank you. You have a procedure? Please introduce yourselves. Zubov People's Deputy, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u16	Honourable Presidency, distinguished people's deputies. I am well aware of the faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”, which everyone has done to ensure that the Order on the Establishment of an Investigative Commission does not pass. But once it has passed, they are now five people who represent the main opposition party, including six others. In fact, they want those who have committed crimes to investigate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u17	Thank you. People's MP Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u18	Honorable National MPs. Lucenko, Ukrainian Socialist Party I do not think that the proposal can be accepted because of the lack of proportionality of the composition of the committee. If from a Communist faction one representative and one of the agrarians does not reflect the composition of the Supreme Council. Thus, if proposals from the pro-presidential part of the faction are made proportionally, then it can be voted in the forehead. And that's just going to be blocking the commission's work, artificial, unwarranted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, proposals were made by National Deputy Fomenko. This is a draft of Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution 1330 on the creation of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the financial basis of sources and mechanisms for the recovery of Ukrainian citizens' savings, with the proposal to include this document for consideration. I'll put it to a vote. Who is in charge of including in the agenda a draft order of 1330, please vote. [[10:13:41]] For 224 For 224. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, in view of the failure to vote, I request your attention and ask you to decide on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the creation of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the financial and economic basis of sources and mechanisms for the recovery of Ukrainian citizens' savings. This is Project 1330. Please vote. [[10:14:34]] For 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! People's deputies: Crnowol, Kručkov, Zubovi, Sovkovich made a proposal to include in our agenda the Supreme Council's Order on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Verification of Facts by Illegal Arms and Military Property and Their Illegal Transfer to Other Countries. This is document number 1256. Please make up your mind. [[10:15:24]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The national deputy Kuras proposed to include in the commission that examines the results of the elections and the cities of Donetsk, Odessa and related electoral legislation violations, the following national deputies with a view to ensuring a proportional representation: national deputies: Colonians, Reznik, Noshenko, Potapov, Hare, Martinovsky, Melnikov, Ryabikin. I'm voting on the inclusion of these deputies in the commission of inquiry. Please vote. [[10:16:21]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! You well know that according to the Rules there should be a proportional representation of all factions. I think it's going to be an objective job. Dear colleagues! You're looking at a project. On behalf of the National MP Bondarenko, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u20	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. Dear friends! First, this question was discussed in the Supreme Council Hall, it was put into the agenda, I spoke on this issue. And I approached everyone, including the factions that are today. Asked to ensure the proportional participation of members of other factions in this commission. They didn't want to. Today, without the agenda of this issue, it is completely unregulatedly considered and accepted, I think, illegally. So I object to this consideration of matters in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u21	National MP Rudzkowski, please. He was followed by the People's Deputy Zubov. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u22	Rudkowski, the Socialist Party. There's just been a vote with a massive violation of the Rules. It's not legal. First it is necessary, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to include this issue in the message of the day, and then to vote in favour of completing the composition of the committees. Please ask this question for inclusion in the message of the day and then put the question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u23	Thank you. The People's Deputies of Teeth and we'll finish. Julia Timoshenko's faction. The People's Deputy of the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I'm just embarrassed to make a comment like this. You must be aware of the Rules and not show contempt for the basic law of Parliament. I'm reading to you. Article 3.1.1 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, paragraph 2. "The decisions of the Supreme Council shall be taken only on matters brought to the agenda of the High Council's meeting, except in cases established by this Rules. In the event of a violation of this requirement, the decision taken is invalid," So today you have violated the Rules and this decision is invalid. Not placed in the agenda. That's the first time. It's different. Indeed, the colleagues had already said that when the composition of the Temporary Commission was formed, each one was approached by the faction manager and accepted the candidates. In that decree that we voted two weeks ago, there's a representative and a party of the One Ukraine, and today the Donetsk clan is working just to slow down the commission's work and make decisions on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u25	Thank you. People's MP Konovaluk and we'll end up with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I don't think there's been a violation of the Rules. That's the first one. Because this question was included in the agenda and a temporary commission was created. But we have the right, and this is also an interpretation of the Rules, to add additions and candidatures from each of the MPs. I would advise those who offer us to engage in every time in political speculation, to raise orders for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, and to look closely, because in every decision in the interim commission of inquiry, representatives from every deputy faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask the Scientific and Expert Legal Department to give their opinion on this, so that we don't break the files in the session room. You are considering a draft decree on the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action. Rapporteur on this issue: Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko. Please, Stanislav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! You have two drafts on your hands. As you recall, the Government’s program of activity in its discussion had generated many observations, wishes, and assessments of its value. The committee discussed the program in detail at its meeting, and Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich spoke at the committee meeting. And the opinion of the committee members is that the Cabinet of Ministers of the Supreme Council should take note of this programme and assign it to the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the proposals, the comments of the legislators of the legislative initiative, and submit it to the Supreme Council after the adoption of the 2003 budget, because whoever doesn't appreciate this programme, but the main disadvantage of this programme right now is the lack of clarity on the financial and budgetary basis of the implementation of this programme. The main scientific expertise of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this regulation. I would like to support the decision made by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question? You don't? And today is the day of the vote. The Prime Minister of Ukraine is asking for the floor. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Friends! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is grateful to the Supreme Council for the principle, constructive and professional discussion of the draft activity program. I'm sure that our common goal is to adopt a pragmatic and responsible document that takes into account the direction of budgetary policy and socio-economic development of the state and, of course, resource security. It should be emphasized that the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are working more closely. There are now joint working groups in the preparation of the Ukrainian Tax Code, the formation of the budget for the main sectors of Ukraine's economy, these are coal, agri-industrial, humanitarian, and so on. Please support the draft decision of the profile committee as a basis for deepening cooperation in the name of Ukraine’s economic growth and the welfare of its citizens. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action, number 1175-P, based on it. Please vote [[10:23:54]] For 251 For -251, the decision is made by factions. Dear colleagues, what suggestions are there? National Deputy Konovaluk, please, faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. There is only editorial clarification because the decree states that the government’s programme of activities is implemented after the approval of the State Budget. I want to remind you that the State Budget approves the government at the end of August at the Cabinet of Ministers. So it's very correct to write "after the adoption of the State Budget Act."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u33	Thank you. What are some other considerations? None. I'm putting together a draft decree for the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine 1175-p as a whole. Please vote. [[10:25:14]] For 259. For -259, the decision is made. The factions. Thank you. We voted in general, without an amendment against which the committee of profile objected. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the inclusion of two draft decisions in the agenda and the decision-making process: this is about changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on urgent measures to improve the health system. According to draft decrees 1237, 1294 is the chairman of the Committee on Rules Valentin Grigorovich Matvijev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, at the July 9th meeting of the Committee, again in view of the lack of personal statements made earlier by the national deputies, which I will continue to speak about, their personal statements that have already been submitted to the committee have been considered. That is, the statements made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Homutinnikov and the Bastriga, and the corresponding draft of the Supreme Council Order on Changes in the Composition of the Supreme Council Committees, registration number 1237 of July 9. With regard to their election as members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship by releasing Homutinnikov from the duties of a member of the Committee on Legal Policy and the Bastrig from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign matters. This question was agreed with the directors of the respective committees. The Committee on Rules supports the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced by the so-called National Deputies, and recommends that it be placed in the agenda of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a warning, which I will speak about later after the vote on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We need to vote for inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's Supreme Order, draft Decree 1237. Who's in favour of including this project in the agenda, please vote, please support. [[10:28:15.]] For 248 To - 248. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u36	The committee proposes a motion for a decision without paragraph 3, stating that it would be ineffective to recognize paragraph 1 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the election of Ukrainian National Deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 June. This, honourable colleagues, comes from the preceding paragraph of the proposed draft decision on the choice that these national deputies are exempt from the responsibilities of the respective committees. Therefore, taking into account the Committee's proposals, please accept the Supreme Council's ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order 1237 with the exception of paragraph 3. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:29:38]] For 248 For - 248, the decision is made. Thank you. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u38	Thank you. At the meeting of the Committee on 9 July, statements were also considered by the National Deputies of Tretlyakow and Avramenko and the relevant draft decision of the Supreme Council on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 1294 of 2 July this year, on the election of them by the members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters relating to fuel and energy, nuclear policy and nuclear security, exempting Trelyakov from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on issues of environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and Abramenko from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. These questions are also agreed with the directors of the respective committees of the Supreme Council. The Rules Committee supports the draft Order on Changes in the Committees of the Supreme Council, which was introduced by the People's Deputies of Trelyakiv, Avramenko, under registration number 1294 and recommends that it be placed in the agenda of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree number 1294. Please vote on this document as a whole. [[10:31:54]] For 247 For 247. Decision taken. Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, you are being considered for inclusion in the agenda and adoption of the draft Ordinance on urgent measures to improve the health system. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the situation in the health system. I would like to support your inclusion in the agenda of this decision and its adoption, because it has been worked out and reconciled, including with the Committee on Budgets. Is there no need to discuss? I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the 1337 agenda of the Order on urgent measures to improve the health system. Please vote. [[10:32:59]] For-360 Z-360. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the draft Decree 1337 on urgent measures to improve the health system of Ukraine as a basis. Please vote. [[10:33:29]] For 353 Is there no objection? Then I'll put in a whole draft of this document. I would like to vote on the draft directive on urgent measures to improve the state of affairs in Ukraine’s health system. Please vote. [[10:33:59]] For 362 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! In order to ensure legal purity in the organization of our work, I propose to adopt the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. It includes all the questions that we have already considered with you and we have yet to consider. I'm out of procedure. National Deputy Lucenko, followed by the national deputy Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u40	Lucenko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The position of our faction on this issue remains unchanged. We insist on introducing to Parliament all the bills that have, at this point, introduced factions and individual deputies, including the question of the impeachment procedure of President Kuchma. In this order of affairs, we will vote in favour. No one: neither the chairman nor the individual factions have the right to deprive the deputies of the right to consider a particular matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u41	I explain myself to a respected colleague. The question of Project Rule 1177 on the beginning of the impeachment procedure was put to the vote and in the session room it got 161 votes, if you're right, plus two statements that they didn't vote. All the questions that we haven't been able to consider are now on the list of issues that will be included in the agenda of the second session. National MP Matvienko, please. After that, the People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u42	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't think you're doing the right thing since you're creating some tension right now. We voted on Sundays, and now, if you ask about the agenda, you're really putting everyone who made their proposals in an awkward position, using their constitutional right. But I would like to make a second observation to you. I'd like you to know that you've violated the Rules. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, voting on the election committee for Donetsk, on Odessa and on Kirovgrad, you have not put this issue in order of the day, which is why this decision is unregulated; it is, taken in violation of the Rules. I'm asking you, we're going to ask, because this is a matter of our committee, of the Rules of Procedure, and we're asking you to reverse this decision and not to consider it acceptable to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u43	Thank you. I'm Anatoly Sergiyovich, and I want to explain once again my point of view that I'm talking about. Since there has been a conflict, I would ask that the relevant committee and the relevant units of the Supreme Council's apparatus be concluded. Then we will return to that question. And there's no need to dramatize him. Please, Alexander Frost, the Faction of the POW.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u44	Alexander Frost, faction of socialists. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we didn't vote separately on any of the questions about 200, anyway. Thus, 1177 rulings were not to be voted on separately. She is voting along with other questions that are proposed in the order of the day. So I insist once again on behalf of the faction. It's not about resigning a particular man or what, it's about creating legal mechanisms that will allow the balance of power in the state. And if we're talking about the day-to-day procedure for the session, we're keeping all the standards here. In particular, the question was being considered. A committee of legal policy that not all issues were dealt with by the committees, but was discussed here. And there was a vote: 10 in, 1 in held. I insist once again on the compliance of the Rules of Procedure with the issue in the complex, because even 161, if even voted, even though that was not necessary, means a high level of trust, a high level of legitimacy of the project itself. And it must be voted for in general, along with all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand? I put to the vote a draft decree on the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call at number 1225. Please vote. [[10:38:47]] For-200 For 20, no decision is taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, you are being questioned about the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u46	Reverend Head, noble national MPs! As you well know, there are 18 members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, six of whom are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, today, in connection with the acquisition of a retirement age by two members of the Constitutional Court, they have been released from office and the Constitutional Court has two vacancies. To meet the requirements of article 7 of the Constitutional Court Act, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine filed for appointment a judge of the Constitutional Court for two persons, including Bilas Ivan Grigorovich and Kopilenko Aleksandra Ljubimovitch. Furthermore, according to the same article of the Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the right to submit applications for election by judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is also one quarter of the constitutional composition of the national deputies. And the respective national deputies, namely, the stated quarter, have also submitted an application for election by judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This applies, in particular, to Shishkina Viktor Ivanovich and Tkajak Paul Mikolaiovich. The content and form of applications, four submissions, are in line with the requirements of the Constitutional Court Act of Ukraine. On July 9 and 10, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy considered the application, and in accordance with the requirements of article 7 of the Constitutional Court Act, it concluded that these submissions were to be made. In this regard, I would like to inform you that the submission concerning the bastard Alexander Ljubimovitch was considered by the committee. All the materials submitted to the committee for election by his judge of the Constitutional Court meet the requirements of the law, however, the majority of the members of the committee have decided not to support the candidature of Kopilenko Aleksandra Ljubimovitch for election to the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. As regards the appointment of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Mr. The committee considered this submission, found that all documents met the requirements of the law and decided by a majority of votes to recommend, sorry, that it did not support Bilas Ivan Grigorovitch's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. With regard to the appointment of Judge Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich. After considering the documents and the submission itself, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the selection of Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich as judge of the Constitutional Court. According to Mr. Mikolaiovich, the Committee considered the materials and concluded that Tkakov Pavel Mikolaiovich could be appointed to the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I would like to point out that after all the votes, the positions of the members of the committee split and they were accepted by a majority of the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The question to the reporter is? Please, the People's Deputies of Mishur. Please sign up if you have any questions. People's MP Mishur. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u48	The Communist faction, Head of the Counting Commission. I specifically emphasize that. Because we're going to have to make ballots. So let's say you have one form of bio-help on three, and you have another form of bio-help on the Copycat. I mean, let's say the bastard doesn't have partying, but according to article 3.7. 1 When preparing ballot papers for secret ballots, we must state party membership, what should we do about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u49	The Committee on Legal Policy, and in particular its secretariat, considered the materials carefully. This question was clarified in the course of the discussion, and Mr. Kopilenko is not part of any party. It was recommended that changes be made to his autobiography.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u50	National MP Samofalov, European Choice Group
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u51	Party of the Regions, European Election Group. A small comment could be made on why Bilas Ivan Grigoryevich was not suitable to be approved by a member of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that, from the point of view of compliance with the formal requirements set out in the Constitutional Court Act, all four candidates submitted may be elected judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In fact, the committee’s decision regarding Billus John Grigorovich was voted on, taking into account that the committee consisted of representatives of various political parties, factions, and groups. And obviously that's how I can explain it, this decision was also motivated by these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u53	We should probably say, more specifically, that the Committee of Legal Policy is turning from the Committee of Legal Policy into a political body, and this is the reality that we should be talking about in this room. Please, National Deputy Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u54	Dear reporter, well, I think Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know me better, certainly the Supreme Council and the committees are political bodies, so it's no big deal if they do. But I have such a question for you that the committee heads. Please tell me, this is the procedure that we have today, the committee is practically recommending two candidates to the Constitutional Court, and we will vote in four. Don't you think that in principle we need to change something with legislation on the Constitutional Court law, so that it's still what the committee recommends?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u55	Thank you for asking, it is indeed relevant. And I'm going to fix it, I'm the first deputy vote of the committee, not the head of the committee. As for the content of your proposal and question. You know, my personal opinion is that the Committee on Legal Policy should come to a conclusion based solely on the relevance of content and form of submission, the requirements set out in the Constitutional Court Act. It is obvious that such questions would be of no use to give a personal assessment as to how the previous opinion of the committee members would have been. But we have a law today, and it requires the committee to come to an appropriate conclusion. While noting that no legislative act, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, has indicated that the committee should reach conclusions, including recommendations or recommendations. That's why I think it's more of an unresolved issue. And we have to make appropriate changes to the Supreme Council Rules or to the Constitutional Court Act. The point is, you asked, really, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u56	Thank you. National Deputy Seminouk Valentina Petrovna, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u57	[[Semenyuk, Socialist faction]] First of all, we support the committee's proposal. But I would like to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with such a request regarding the situation that took place in Kiev today. Today, the President's Administration is calling on members of the city council, including our deputies, representatives of our party, to make a coup d'état in the city council. So today, the Presidential Administration has become a political body. As Head of the Supreme Council and in the past, the representative of the President's Administration, please, with appropriate authority, bring that appropriate body to the legal basis so that they do not engage in what is not being done today. What's more, calling on city council deputies, giving instructions on how to film Omelchenka, how to vote, and how, what faction to record, and what is once again forming on boards of different levels, forming parties of "The One Ukraine" is just inappropriate. Because their work shows that they probably want to go back to the change in the Constitution and put that old article 6 of the Constitution, where the "One Ukraine" party is going to be like it used to be. I think that would be inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u58	National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u59	Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. That's my question. What principles did you follow in discussing these candidatures: are they political, professional or some other?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u60	Thank you. The committee drew conclusions from two main groups of issues. First: do the requirements for the selection of judges comply with the requirements of the Constitutional Court Act, in particular on the availability of higher legal education, on the existence of a price of residence in Ukraine, on the maintenance and submission of tax obligations to the Supreme Council, on autobiographical information, on income declarations, and also on documents that demonstrate the presence of academic names and degrees. As for circumstances that involve entering or not being part of a household, that is, a ban that exists in this sense. And in this sense, we've come to the conclusion that all four candidates for election by judges of the Constitutional Court are such that they can be elected. As far as personal evaluation by members of the committee of professional data, obviously political views or other circumstances are concerned, this is already the personal opinion of each member of the committee. And the vote, as I said before, was not unanimous; it was divided. But by a majority of votes, either the candidates or the number of votes they have won, as I have already reported today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u61	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Time's up. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us now listen to the question to the candidates. Is there no objection? If there is such a need. Is that not necessary? You don't? Then there will be a vote at 12 o’clock. And I'm going to ask that the head of the provisional reckoning commission of the People's Deputy Mishur speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to ask the Supreme Council to confirm that we're putting four candidates to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u63	Yeah, four.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u64	I would ask them to listen to me carefully. I want to remind you of the composition of the Counting Commission, which will meet on the third floor in our usual place of work in five minutes. And we're going to be preparing ballot papers. Asadchev Valeriy Mihajlovich, Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, Grzezhev Anatoli Dmitrovitch, Ivanov Sergey Anatolievich, Kalichenko Igor Viktorovich, Karmazin Yuri Anatolievich, Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich, Kostin Bogdan Fvanović, Miko Vitaliy Ivanovich, Manchulenko Georgiy Manuliovich, Mirymsky Lev Yuliyovich, Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich, Ryabikin Pavel Borisovich, Rybika Vladimir Leonidovich, Sitnik Kostjantin Merkuryovich, Sobolev Sergei Vladimirovich, Fomenka Katerina Alexandrovna, Chronovil Taras Vyaslavovich, Cicánov Sergey Vladimirovich, Shevčuk Sergey Volodymirovich. Members of the Counting Commission, please gather to prepare the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u65	Thank you very much. National Deputy Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u66	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have more to do with you. If you said 12 we're going to start voting, then there's a request to take a break, because we have 45 minutes to vote. Maybe by 12:45. That's 15 minutes more.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u67	That's a good idea. Then we'll take a break from 12 to 12.45 so we can vote and go back to the session room. Thank you. Dear colleagues! A draft decree on the release of Peftiyev Mikola Abrahamovich from office as a member of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets is being introduced. Rapporteur of the Ukrainian National Deputy Valentina Petrovna Seminouk
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u68	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues! Following the adoption of the commission of the Finance and Banking Commission and our Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization on the situation of the liberation of Peftyev, there were meetings of these two committees, and we prepared a draft regulation. A 15 - year - old commission voted in favour of the decision you have been given. Realizing that after the assignment was the right time, we prepared from two committees, from finance and banking, that is, the head of the Burjak and Seminouk Commission, a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council, that he should be working on commissions and working in the district, and that he should contact the President of Ukraine about a violation of the procedure for the release of a member of the Securities and Stock Market Commission, which he did accordingly. Yes, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. After that, we registered an appropriate draft of the decree. But yesterday, literally after lunch, a letter came to the Supreme Council from the President. I want to quote him to you. "In view of the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the past has not decided, in accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Law, on the granting of exemption from office of a member of the State Commission from the securities market and the Pekhtieva stock market, I ask again, in accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the securities market, to grant consent to release him from office with the application submitted by Pechtiyev with the application." It's a letter. The second paragraph of this letter. "Please also consider granting permission to suspend the terms of office of a member of the designated Romach commission in connection with his death. " I would like to say that the second part of the President's letter is confirmed by the observation made at the meeting of the commission on the procedure for the release of similar ones in the event of death. If we have a member of the Supreme Council dying, we also conduct a proper discharge procedure. Therefore, I believe that today we can vote for the release of Pechtiev, Romashka. The beaver will report on this. And this is a draft decision that we can take off today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u69	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Dear colleagues! There's no need to vote. It is clear that we are the draft decision in relation to the fact that we are not considering the President in question, and we are now coming to the consideration of the matter in essence. The draft decision to grant approval for Pechtiyev’s release from office as a member of the State Commission from the securities market will be presented by the national deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Vasilovich Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, this is a question that is quite relevant because the circulation of securities in the market last year was more than 60 billion dollars, which is more than a different commodity. So I'm asking without time to put to the vote a draft decree granting consent for Pechtiev's release from office as a member of the State Commission from securities and stock market.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on draft regulation 1340 on granting consent to Pechtiev's release from office as a member of the State Commission from securities and stock market. Please vote. [[10:58:01]] For 348 For -348, the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u72	Thank you, we've been doing this for two years. Please make a draft decision to grant permission for the termination of the terms of office of a member of the State Commission from the securities and stock market of Romashka in connection with his death.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of Supreme Council ruling 1341 on granting permission to suspend the powers of a member of the State Commission from securities and the Roma Stock Market. Please vote. [[10:58:46]] For-360 For 360, the decision is made. My fellow Members, you are being reviewed by draft decrees to grant consent to the appointment of Burma and the Harick State Commission members from the securities and stock market of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u74	I gave, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, a brief comment on this. And the Committee on Finance and Banking is once again stressing that these are highly qualified, well-known experts in the stock market who have worked actively with the Committee on Finance and Banking in the past merger. Therefore, I ask that draft decrees be put to the vote for the appointment of Burma and Hariecki to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u75	Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the granting of agreement on the appointment of Burma as a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets, this is document 1129-P. Please vote. [[11:00:04]] For 359 "For" - 359. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 1130-P, granting approval for the appointment of the Harician State Commission member from securities and stock market. Please vote. [[11:00:35]] For 374 "For" - 374. Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u79	Your consideration of the appointment of members of the National Council of Ukraine in the field of television and radio. Dear colleagues, I ask that we agree on a procedure for dealing with this issue. The Committee considered 21 candidates. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't rush to hell in front of your father. Committees, factions, and 21 candidatures were introduced. During the discussion, three candidates withdrew their claim to be members of the National Council, with 18 candidates remaining. With 18 candidates, five candidates were appointed by way of a rating vote, which I received as the Head of the Supreme Council. I have sent the relevant drafts to your consideration, but two factions, three, that is, the factions insist that the candidate, Scarlat Yuri Grigorovovich, and Pavelek Viktor Viktorovich be put to the vote. And these proposals are also given to you, and I would like to propose a procedure to deal with this issue. Because we're going to do the rating vote, because we have 5 candidates, and we need 4, I would suggest that we work quickly, include these two candidates on which they insist. Perform a rating vote. At the same time, respectable colleagues! I would ask that we realize that we need to choose four candidates for anything today. Because according to the decree we have adopted, we have assigned to those who have already been essentially retired, namely, three candidates. If we choose two or one candidates, it is unknown which of these people will have to resign, who will be left to work. That is how we need to make a decision today. What is the point? Is there any objection? I'm asking the committee, Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you all that, in principle, we can make another 30 candidates, for example, every national MP has a point of view, but we understand it as well as the leadership of the Supreme Council and the deputies should act in accordance with the law. I would like to read article 6 of the National Council Act, the appointment of members of the Nacradia, where it is clearly stated that proposals for candidates are made by the head of the First Committee of the Supreme Council. If we want to make decisions about the members of the Nakrad illegally, which recognizes general voting illegal, let's do it. Or let us act by law and consider the five candidates voted in secret by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u81	I'd like you to sign up for the procedure. Please show me on the board. People's MP Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u82	Anatoly Sergiyovich, I give you my word, go to the rostrum and explain to the people. On the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u83	I'm asking the People's Deputy Kirilczuk not to run the Supreme Council for the time being. Please, Matthew, have you given your word? Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u84	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't understand how we're gonna vote at 12 o'clock if there weren't candidates for the Constitutional Court on the stand? And we've moved on to Nacraada. Please call the Constitutional Court candidates to the rostrum, people want to hear them, see them, ask questions, and then move on to Nacrada. I don't understand logic, from one question to another. So I suggest we go back to the Constitutional Court and move, closing the first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u85	Dear colleague Matthews, I'd like to follow the session closely and then make a note. After a representative of the committee spoke, the National Deputies expressed themselves mostly here, that there was no need to listen to candidates for posts, no need to listen to candidates for the positions of judges of the Constitutional Court, but to vote. [[One minute!]] And we've moved on to the next question. After that, we have considered a few questions. And I'm asking you not to ruin the session. I'd like to invite you to speak out of the procedure. Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u87	National MP Klukkowski, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bondarenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Supreme Council of Human Resources is making a decision not only by candidature but by making an appropriate decision. And in accordance with the Rules, a regulation can be adopted when the draft regulation has been introduced. We have today's five draft decrees on those candidates of the Nacrada that the committee has proposed. According to Charlotte and Paulette’s candidature, there are no draft regulations in nature; there are letters to the Head of the Supreme Council that are not a legislative initiative. I would like to recall the decision of the Constitutional Court that the legislation adopted by the Supreme Council in violation of its Rules is invalid. So if we want the election of the members of the Nakrad to be challenged in the Constitutional Court and found to be invalid, and in doing so to paralyze the work of the National Council, let's do as the authors of the letters suggest. Are not members of these factions aware of the legislative procedure and unable to make draft regulations? If they didn't, there's nothing to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u89	Please, National Deputy Bandurka. We're in the process of dealing with the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head, please give the floor to the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u91	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. There was a phrase here quite often that everyone finally agreed that the Supreme Council could make any decision at its plenary meeting. And if now a large number of national deputies insist that two more candidates be considered for the National Broadcasting and Broadcasting Council, then I think that's their right. On the other hand, I don't understand why my decision and my voice should somehow be, let's say, a hostage to decisions made in one of the 24 committees. I think the Supreme Council has the right to make the right decisions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u93	Thank you. Just a minute. By procedure, the national MP, Drogunzov, and time is running out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I think we need to follow procedure and decide now about the members of the National Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u95	Thank you. Out of procedure, National Deputy Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u96	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The point is that candidates to the Constitutional Court and candidates to the National Council are subject to compromise among different factions. And you know it. And in previous agreements, it was said that in order to make sure that, let's say, the representatives of one political spectrum were supporting the employees of another political spectrum to solve the issue essentially, we had to do it this way right now. Consider the issues that are in order the day after the election of the National Council. To vote at 12 o’clock on the Constitutional Court and immediately to vote on the question of the National Council. Then it will be resolved optimally and effective decisions will be made. I think that's the way to go, then it's going to be a stable job and it's going to be a necessary result for the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u97	Thank you. Unfortunately, Alexander Alexandrovich, I did not know that there were certain arrangements, and I am going according to the schedule of meetings. National Deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! The National Council Act does not require members of the National Council to refer solely to the opinion of a professional committee. The Law provides that the Head of the Supreme Council himself may make proposals, taking into account the views of those factions that have not submitted or who have been denied the right to submit their nominations. We have now submitted our candidacy, and we insist that it be included in the voting list. Consider the practice of voting in past convocations. In a session of the Supreme Council, it was all going on that way. Ivan Stepanovich usually put to the vote all names, not just those who passed the committee. Therefore, we ask that those candidates who have submitted representatives of the MPs be put to the vote in alphabetical order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u99	Thank you. Out of Matthew's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u100	Dear fellow national MPs! I'm asking you. We really need to reconcile, as two factions, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the factions of the Frost, some issues that we have not agreed on. We now have two choices: either we write a statement and we have the right to call it a 30-minute break, or we ask that we just move it after 12 hours. Now let's move on to another issue of the agenda, because we have a lot of questions that we need to vote on. And so please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you don't have to vote. Just let's take it properly, treat each other with respect. We either give you an application, we need to consult, or we move on to other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! I'm asking that we don't interrupt the session and listen to each other, so let's vote on that question and move on and go to work. At the request of two factions of the Socialist. Because of that, I'm asking my colleagues to meet you now so that we don't take a break and vote on these issues after 14 hours. There's an offer. There's nothing I can do. Out of procedure, please, National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you of the rules of the Rules of Procedure. First. If the matter has been discussed and we have come to its attention, and we have come to its attention, no one, including the chairman, heads of factions and so forth, has the right to interrupt the consideration of the matter. That's the first one. I repeat, no one has the right to interrupt. The question of a break can only be considered after the question has been considered. So you're doing exactly what the Rules are. You can really, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, ask the question of a break after this question is completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u103	Thank you. We're continuing the discussion. Then please, the head of the Committee of Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u105	Anatoly Danilovich, it might be better. Mikola Volodymyrovich, maybe you'd better get out of the rostrum then.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u106	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I'd like to go back to the law. The fact is that the history with the National Council, which we've been listening to for so long here, was actually a very instructive lesson when we said that we shouldn't talk about politics here, we should talk about implementation or non-compliance with the law. And when we vote this principled question today, I don't want to offend the MPs, not every MP should know this law for sure, but if the MP comes out of this question, well, he would probably have to look into the law. And once again, I'm going to remind you of a very clear, hard procedure that's laid down in the law. There are appropriate qualifications for members of the National Council, as provided for in article 9. These qualification requirements in accordance with the procedure should be considered by a committee which, by procedure, announces an official competition, publishes reports of a contest in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Then he takes the biogranization data from these candidates. By the way, the information about the esteemed Victor Pavlovka of "Trug Ukraine" came by fax one hour before the committee meeting, and no one saw him in his eyes, and no one saw the biography. What are we talking about? These biographies we study, then there's a discussion with these applicants, and then there's a secret vote. And according to the secret ballot, you have to get more than half. We're giving it to the Chief of the Supreme Council. As the vote takes place, article 6 is inscribed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u107	Mikolo Volodymyrovich, please, let's essentially go to the candidates to make the work effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u108	So once again, I would like to say what the position of the committee is. We've considered all the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u109	Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u110	And we suggest that you consider five candidates who have passed the relevant requirements, who have passed the appropriate vote and who have obtained more than half of the votes on the committee. Other candidates, who, under different circumstances, such as Pauline, who failed to file documents and votes, are not properly submitted to us. So our proposal is to look at the candidates that we have prepared and handed over to the Head of the Supreme Council for which there are draft regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues. You know the committee's decision. This is how I propose to go. Now, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, now that we have voted, one minute, I'm going to finish, and now we're going to vote by rating vote on the five candidates who put the committee to the vote, see what the results will be. Then we will continue to vote on those candidates who are under pressure. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u112	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u113	None. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, there is a need. Dear colleagues, let me finish the question! Just a minute. Dear colleagues, do you need to meet each candidate? Yes. Okay, thanks. Sit down, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. I invite you, Your Honor, according to the results of the rating vote I invite you to the podium Monday, Victor Ivanovich. Is there a Victor Ivanovich? Please proceed with the procedure of the People's Deputy. So is Monday? Please, the People's Deputy of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u114	Dear Heads and honourable national deputies, we choose the members of the Nacrada. I have the right as an MP to listen to each of the candidates, I have the right to ask questions and to hear the answer before voting, so I insist that we listen to all the candidates by procedure, ask them questions and then we will be identified. And not a minute for a candidate, but a candidate should be there for at least 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u115	Sergey Petrovich, we've just taken this proposal into account and the committee's proposal is to give the candidate up to five minutes. Is there no objection? Can we ask you a question right now? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National MP Tsushko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Nikolaenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u117	National MP Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u118	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Victor Ivanovich! We know you, as an experienced parliamentarian, as a person who knows the situation in the information space of Ukraine. You were one of the authors of the laws in this field. And so, of course, your qualifications are high. And our faction is ready to vote for you. Please tell me. As a member of the National Television Council, what if you had built your own work? To protect our young, learners from these radio-chillers, who tear apart the souls of our children, from this we will say untapped sadism, more loyal sadism, from this horror, the filth that flows into the soul that shames our children's consciousness. We have already written with you many times to remember what it should be like to even learn to go on television and radio, radio, and television. Sadly, though, it is so weak, the cobwebs are being introduced. What specific mechanisms do you see? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u119	Thank you for asking. The Honourable People's Deputies, the Criminal Code, adopted by the Supreme Council in this convening, have two articles, if I am not mistaken 300 and 301, which provide for very severe penalties for demonstrating those films or such broadcasts as a colleague of the past, Nicholas. But unfortunately, the National Council has so far not applied these standards once in practice, but rather this composition is not the National Council, but this composition that reported to the Supreme Council allowed against the Criminal Code at some point in time to show similar films. Therefore, if there is your trust, the only thing I will pursue in the National Council, as part of the National Council, is to abide by all the rules of law, not those that please or displease any member of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u120	National MP of Kosovo, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u121	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Victor Ivanovich, I am very pleased to mention how we in the Supreme Council have worked in two friendly factions that have worked actively with each other. So you were one of the authors of many legal regulations on television, television and radio. How do you feel about any of the little things that you have included in these laws today, following the National Council or not? What do we have to do to make sure that the legislative principles are respected? In particular, I'm interested in the saviour that applies to the licensing of television programs, such as those that are peripheral in your hometown of Zaporozhye, too, where everything depends on some completely subjective sevowat of the heads of the National Council, they want to -- they don't want to, they don't want to, they don't even have the right to run their programs, do they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u122	Thank you for asking. Well, I'll give it a shot. First, the National Council has violated the requirement of the TV and radio bill, which provides for 50 percent of the frequencies or channels for local speakers and only for local speakers. Secondly, the TV law and other information laws do not provide for online speakers at all. And if the National Council is going to do that, it may be necessary to legislate, because the Constitution says that the principles of media formation and activity, including electronics, are defined only by law. And the last question is yours, or part of the question. And yet, if I were to be a member of the committee, I'd now come to a more stringent regulation of the National Council's work, in which order: The National Council should have the right to issue positions only for internal needs, and all the rest by law. So this position about the competition, about the expert board or something else, it has to be written in the law, then it's going to be okay. Thanks again for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u123	National MP Samofalov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u124	Samofalov, Regional Party, European Choice Group. Viktor Ivanovich, we know you well enough as a highly professional professional as an experienced politician. Your candidate for election to the National Council for Television and Radio was considered by the MP. We will vote for you on one condition: you must answer one of our questions. As you personally believe, what two pressing problems today will you solve as a member of the Nacrad.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u125	Am I supposed to answer in Russian or in Ukrainian? Okay. In this room, I'm going to speak Ukrainian. Why did you determine that only two of the most pressing problems to be solved in the National Council? There are staff internal problems of the National Council, there is a machine to work with, not everyone in the National Council on the spot, we have to work out, it's a very acute problem. If a member of the National Council by law has no right to be composed more than two times, why can the cameraman work two, three, and four terms? It's some kind of coincidence. It's a very acute problem, you know what this is about. The second problem that needs to be solved is the ratio of the local language to the national one, or as it is now called the online language. It is absolutely necessary to write. Third problem. It's a problem of what's called cable talk, cable television. Because most cables are called collective reception systems, but not television companies. But they're licensed and applied to a place in the information space as a television company, that is, as a media tool. This is a problem that the National Council alone will not solve. Only with the Supreme Council. And one of the tactical, most pressing problems is cooperation between the National Council and the Committee. Here's the past composition of the National Council just ignored the Committee of the Supreme Council. They were not just guests. If you don't invite them and push them, forgive the rudeness of the word, the committee, they won't show up. Although the problem is solved, in principle, one. The legislative committee rules. But these are the motives that the committee has to push, they're going somewhere from the National Council. That was not the case, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Victor Ivanovich, time is running out. You all know Victor Ivanovich well. I don't think you have any objection. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Monday, Victor Ivanovich, on his appointment as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Please vote. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[11:29:05]] For 308. For 308. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Vladislav Evgenovich Llasovski is invited. Please. Please sign up for a question in Lassovsky. Let's take a look at the board. People's deputy Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u127	I have a question for a candidate. The Henprosecutor’s office doesn’t see potter’s commercials on television. What can you say about this, and how will you fight this evil?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u128	Thank you for asking. I can only say that today there are some inconsistencies regarding the advertising of gorillas and tobacco workers. This is so because vodka and tobacco products themselves cannot be advertised by a television company. But trade marks now have the opportunity to advertise. That is why the National Council and the Committee on Television and Broadcasting at the Supreme Council are working closely here. And I think these questions will be answered soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u129	Domansky, the Communist faction. Get ready for Kirilchuku. Domansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u130	Please give the floor to Mroz Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u131	Turn on the freezer microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u132	I wanted to ask you how to apply for such a high-level position of responsibility. How does your assessment of the fact that Utar's television studio is totally gang-related? And the court ruling on this issue is not being executed. And by the way, the National Council on Television and Radio is playing on the side of the lie. We're looking at how now the substitution took place in television with another studio, and I don't want to make claims to this studio, but there's so much raw material, because it wasn't ready to accept that kind of amount of television. As you see it, as a member of the National Council, you have to avoid such seduction and to ensure that the judicial decisions are still being made in Ukraine. [[I think we'll support your candidacy.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u133	Thank you for asking. I'd like to answer a broader question, because what's going on in the National Council right now, the bunch of lawsuits that are going on today, whether they're going to be decided or not by the National Council, that's a pretty important question that needs to be resolved. And in that, I think it's going to take a lot of help and a profile committee and a Supreme Council to figure this out. As for UTAR and other companies that are now almost in crisis because they've been working for almost 10 years and today they don't have the ability to continue this, I think it's almost a criminal decision that needs to be carefully studied and made. And the failure to implement the rulings of the National Council seems to me that the answer to that question was given in a vote in the Supreme Council. Trust in the past composition of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u134	People's MP Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u135	Your Honor! I'm interested in the question of the quality of our transmissions. It is so impressive that we can see a miracle or a monster on television today. For example, before a child’s education, advertising is available. In this commercial. Children's show is five minutes, and commercials are two-sided for 20 minutes. Instead of watching a video, children watch naked women first, and then something like that. How can we fight this evil?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. Well, I probably should have said that we have to do something more carefully or somehow through legislation, but I hope and I can prove it, that the actual legislation that we now have is enough to meet all of these requirements that you're talking about is a pretty big problem. And for today, I think the problem is different. The problem is that at Nacrad, there's no mechanism in Nacrad's apparatus that could monitor and then somehow make observations to some television companies. Today, two people working in the National Council are being watched by a television broadcaster in Ukraine. I think it's just nonsense. If we can document all these problems that exist, and then demand that the television company do the actual legislation and the licensing requirements that they get when they get the license, I think it's a problem with propellant advertising, the problem with screen violence, the problem with horror movies, it'll go away and disappear altogether. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u137	Vladislav Evgenovich, thank you. Your time is up, thank you. Dear colleagues. Thank you, sit down, please. Draft Decision 1345-1 on the appointment of the Lesovsky National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. I'd like to make up my mind, Your Honor. [[11:36:35]] For 208 For - 208, no decision is made. The factions. Oh, those are ratings. I'm sorry, I'm just getting out of Monday's 308 vote. "To" - 208. Excuse me, fellow officers. Shevchenko Vitaly Fedorovich is invited to attend. Let's do the factions. Is there a question? None. Is it? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National MP Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u138	[[Matthew, the Communist faction]] . How do you assess the recent fact that, well, today, you have literally said that the National Security Council office evaluates statements in the media, letters about Ukraine's accession to NATO and Ukraine's failure to join NATO? The media, however, do not provide a statement by the National Security Council, but, in general, statements by the National Security Council staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u139	Thank you. Well, I don't know what it's about, but as you ask me, I appreciate the negative. Obviously, this is another example of the involvement of authorities in the media, which in a democratic society must be independent of the same authority. And that's why we need all the institutions of the state, including from such a constitutional body as the National Television and Radio Council, to create exactly all the prerequisites for Ukrainian media, like any media, to be independent of interference from the side and to be subject only to readers, audiences, viewers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u140	Thank you. National MP Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u141	Thank you. Please give the word to your colleague Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u142	The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u143	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Committee on Freedom of Speech. Dear Mr. Shevchenko, the people we recently retired, many of them are highly professional, let's say I admit it. Why did the National Council work so badly? I think the main reason is that a lot of people didn't have their own positions and were very easily in power, under the president, under the President's administration. We now have in the committee a host of unforgiving facts, when literally for a sharp performance, either the author’s program or the entire channel, radio or television. I'm not going to count it. Now I'm curious before I vote for you right now, I know your position, but I want my fellow national MPs to hear it too. What will be your position? Are we going to get out of this deadlock when the National Council is just a Cossack with the President and a Seminomist and a few other officials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u144	It seems to me that the actions and decisions of the National Council have often been marked by conjuncture and administrative influence. In my subjective view, there are at least three moments that any member of the newly elected National Council would seem to have to conduct. The first point is that he would take care of the information market and its development in places, because it was so that the previous Nazrad there destroyed everything that could be and contributed to the formation of the mediaconcerns, the second, to take care of the national information product and its European level, the world standards, because we're going to have to destroy it as soon as the normal Continent radio came along, instead of coming, thank you and ask what you guys are going to do, help you destroy it. And finally, third, which is what you're talking about. It seems to me that we should have changed the National Council of Television and Broadcasting Act itself and made it so that neither the environment nor the administrative resources would affect its work, which was, unfortunately, very often in previous periods.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u145	National MP Lukyanenko. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u146	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vitaly Fedorovich! I know you have a lot of experience working in the media. And I want to ask you questions like you're already the Head of the National Council for Television and Radio. So the first question. Once upon a time, the Council was viewed as the Public Prosecutor's Office in the media. So the first question. You can see that the television screen has been turned into a school of murder, rape, drug use, pornography, and so on. When do you think you can stop this? The second question. From 1994 to 1998, we tried to create public, Ukrainian television. The National Council didn't give us a license then. Would you be willing to create such a group now? I mean, independent radio from the President, from the Supreme Council. Question three. During our work on the committee, we prepared the Information Security of Ukraine Act, which never came into effect. Will you contribute? I'll thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u147	Thank you, if you'll excuse me. That is how I will contribute to this Law. And thank you for having contributed to his development at that time, unfortunately, it's still not being conducted through this hall. What is involved in social speech? This problem, apparently not solved by the Nakrad itself, can be solved only with the deputies, the people’s chosen. Since the framework law on the creation of this system of language is and only has to be launched by means of the adoption of the legislative act the mechanism for its creation. And Nakrad, of course, has to do everything to help. Well, the third question is what we see on our screens. Well, I don't know what was going on, but we kept closing our eyes where we had to amend the legislation. It's about pornography, and the horrors on the screens, it's about the notion of the "own information product" that floats, it's about the problem of advertising or the annots, which is the most recent problem. They are regulated only by legislation. What had not been done before, apparently, was also the weather of some sort, someone was comfortable, and there were no such legislative initiatives, and because of this session hall they unfortunately did not take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u148	Thank you, Vitaly Fedorovich. Time's up. Thank you. I'm betting on the vote, my dear colleagues, on the rating vote of Vitaly Fedorovich Shevchenka. Please make up your mind. [[11:45.]] For 221 To -221. The factions. Manjosov Vladimir Anatoliyovich is invited to the rostrum. Any questions? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National MP Tsushko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u149	Pass the word to Rudzikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u150	National MP Rudzikowski
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u151	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. I want to ask you. In an independent Ukraine, the legal concept of censorship has long been abolished. Last week, I interviewed Chernig for 30 minutes. For 15 minutes, it was cleaned out by the head of the district radio company. What will you and your organization do if you are supported in order to eliminate censorship in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u152	Thank you for asking. If I'm given that kind of trust by the Supreme Council, and I'm going to be appointed a member of the National Council, then like my colleagues, I hope we'll do everything we can to enforce Ukrainian legislation, including banning censorship. If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u153	National Deputy Stretovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u154	Dear pretender, it is no secret to anyone that your predecessors in the National Council have created such a kind of livelihood for themselves through proper licensing. Please tell me, will you reduce corruption in Ukraine without taking bribes while in office?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u155	I don't know about the facts you're talking about. But I think the answer is clear, coming out of your question. Of course not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u156	National MP Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u157	I'm asking you to pass the word to Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u158	National Deputy Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u159	Your Honor, I have a question for you. First. According to licensing conditions, and they were still at Petrenko's, 50 percent on television would have belonged to a national product. So if this was not true, then the television company would have to be dislicted. Today it's not going to last. Today, Ukrainian national space is rsusified. Do you at least feel the need, at least for an example, for any television company to disqualify, to speak, to disqualify it for the reason that it does not adhere to the language regime? Because today, at the expense of Ukrainian taxpayers, the Russian media is destroying Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian national consciousness, Ukrainian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u160	Thank you for asking. I'm sorry, of course, but the question was about domestic production. A domestic project -- it doesn't mean a product made in Ukrainian. So I can argue right now that in the Donetsk region, virtually all the locals are following the law on 50 percent of the national product, because a lot of the television programs that go on television in these television companies are their own production, the production of these radio companies. With regard to compliance with the Ukrainian Language Act, which is written in the licenses of many television companies that are 50 percent older there and above, of course I support one of the most recent decisions of the National Council, where it was said that own programs, self-production programmes need to be produced in the national language. And I think that after the period of re-licensing, which is almost completed, the National Council, which is in the new warehouse, will deal with these issues -- more serious compliance with the requirements of legislation and the requirements of the license by radio organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u161	National MP Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u162	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please tell us today that in the world of widespread distribution there has been what is called remote learning. Even today, some deputies are preparing a draft law on distance learning. We understand that without the Internet system, without the television system, we will not be able to do so. Tell us how you, as a candidate for such a high position of responsibility, view this problem and whether you have thought about the realization of this problem that would allow us to involve a large number of young people in learning.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u163	Briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u164	Of course, I can't help but support everything progressive that suggests modern technological development. So this issue really needs to be resolved at the national level, including the National Council on Television and Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u165	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Have a seat, please. I am voting for Manjosov Volodymyr Anatoliyovich. Please make up your mind. Please vote. [[11:51:57]] For 287 The factions. Yuri Vasilovich Zakharchenko is invited to the rostrum. Please, Yuri Vasilovich. Please sign up for the question, if they are, to the challenger. On the board, please. Samofalov, National MP, European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u166	Samofalov, a party of regions, the European Choice Group. I know that in obtaining a broadcasting license, a mass of documents is presented to the National Committee, such as its work plan, which reflects all moral and moral principles of future transmissions, requirements for technical equipment for carrying out work. But then we see violence, violence and so on on television. And the second. Very poor quality of technical equipment. I can give you an example of Nart, a number of others. What mechanism do you think the National Council should use to avoid these shortcomings in its work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u167	The point is that when documents are submitted to the National Council, there is only a software concept, and what will appear in one program or another is unfortunately not reflected there. Because, you know, you can't write that 5 years ahead of time, which is exactly what it's going to show in one program or another. But I figured out the context in which you're putting it. First of all, it is clear that legislation should work. And unfortunately, today's legislation on the content of programs, what we're talking about, is violence, pornography and other things, other things, we have, but unfortunately it's not quite working. This is the National Council, I think, to develop such mechanisms that we should work, first of all, to monitor everyone, primarily the national channels, and including the regional ones, because the National Council has regional representations in the regions and has regional broadcasters, and to make coils, and to report on how the terms of the license and legislation of Ukraine are being implemented, including on those issues that you've been talking about. It's supposed to be monitoring.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u168	Plutinski’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u169	Please give the floor to the national deputy Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u171	Thank you, Mr. Pluto. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Our Ukraine. Your Honor, would you please tell me how you're going to behave if one of the members of the National Council is specifically lobbying specific channels that he's behind? And how you're going to react to the channels where the court has already ruled and the ones that the Kiev viewer loved is "The Morning," that's "The Game." Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u172	Thank you. The court’s decisions are to be carried out by appropriate services and authorities, and the National Council is to be licensed. But of course, I understand the point of your question. To lobby for the interests of each member of the National Council and someone there. To do something to prevent someone from lobbying, you know, it's very difficult, it's on the conscience of every member of the National Council that's going to be first of all. I can only be held responsible for myself that on the National Council I will be guided by my work, if I become a member of the National Council, I will be governed by the law, the legal acts that will be adopted by the Supreme Council. By the way, I'd like to ask you to ask you to get a quick look at the issue and adopt cable and satellite television law, because we have almost 80 percent of television in the country today, watching television on cable networks, and we don't have cable television in the country, and there's only a law on air. So I would like to ask you to consider that all broadcasters work in the legal field.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u173	People's deputy Galiev, Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u174	Please give the word to Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u175	[[Stepan Gavrish, 177 constituency, Democratic Initiatives]] . Dear Yuri Vasilovich! At this time in Ukrainian television and radio, and most of all in television, mainly there is a product that is not produced by Ukrainian producers and that is not often pursued by Ukrainian national interests. Don't you have specific suggestions, plans, if we choose you to create a specific programme to protect national interests, using the information space of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u176	Thank you. Indeed, today we have a very hard time with Ukrainian domestic products in the radio area. Believe me, I've worked my whole life and I've done this job, I've produced television programs, I've organized the production of these television programs. I can say that the main and main problem we have is, of course, funding and conditions for legislative conditions for this funding to be in a television company. I think that today's television law is enough to work properly and protect the interests of Ukraine in the radio area, first of all. We simply need to refine and supplement this law with certain points, certain articles. And of course, what I just said, I repeat, is the law on cable and satellite television. And manufacturers, believe me, they're all working and they're all ready to produce Ukrainian TV products. The only thing is, unfortunately, today's economic situation in television is that there's enough money and money in advertising budgets to produce this amount of domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u177	I'll bet you a vote, Sugarchenko, please. [[11:59:03]] For-25 Yes, Your Honor, we're invited to the rostrum by Mr. Karlat Yuri Grigorovich. By factions, please give. Why don't you take us to the rostrum again? Come in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u178	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u179	Please sign up for a question for Mr. Charlatta Yuri Grigorovich. Let me explain. People's MP Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u180	Please give the voice to Terrence Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u181	Victor Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u182	Dear reporter, how do you feel about the situation where our television works according to the principle of Ukrainian folk tales, you know? Like this 40-woron baby is fed: I'll give it to you, I won't give it to you. I'm the same if television gives, because it's my child, Vitrenko, but I won't, because these are in opposition to the state crow, let's say. I mean, whether the television will finally give you order when you have equal access to different factions, whether they're friends or in normal opposition to the Bank. Thank you. Break it up now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u183	Dear Mr. Victor! I can only say one thing. That it should be regulated by law. And the National Council should be able to, I've been working on the National Council for four months, but I've seen the terrible state of her apparatus. So it has to have not only a legislative basis, but also possibilities for determining this situation. I know that everywhere in the world, in Europe in particular, there are powerful Monitoring Committees with similar bodies that celebrate all the speeches when you mention who, especially during the election period, if one of the companies and they have a rule of law that is all equal to the conditions. It violates these conditions until they are removed from the air. Regrettably, there is no such possibility in the National Council today, only the possibility of a warning. Then the fine, then the expulsion from the air, but even the waiver of the license only on the court's decision. And I totally agree with Victor Ivanovich Monday, with Vitaly Fedorovich Shevchenk, and I have worked with them on certain draft laws that need to be improved in legislation and the National Council, introduced into a rigid legal framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u184	National MP Samofalov, European Choice Group
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u185	Party of the Regions. European Choice Group. Respectable candidate! The Supreme Council of the Second Council adopted the Advertising Act. Where it was prohibited to do advertising on time for films and information programmes. Today, many television companies are in grave violation of the law. They give this ad in the middle of the movie, and not once. I didn't get enough time for 10 to 15 minutes. And today our electors do not give us passage and say, "When will this punishment end? When will the order be restored?" What do you think if you are a member of the National Council, what should be the mechanism here, and what should the National Council do in order to comply with the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u186	The National Council’s Analytical Department examined the situation. It's that most, well, we have the ability here to basically monitor the central channels, where there are locals, they're mostly using a little trick: they're giving, not advertising, but anons of their films that aren't prohibited by legislation. And let's say they're able to give anything under the anons of the film, or, let's say, an annotate of their program. They say it's an anon, and under the anon goes, "Sponsor of the firm dig." You see, in this situation, we need a clear legislative standard to punish that speaker. Only then will the court not charge her. Because today the courts, I'm sorry, I've analyzed the court's rulings, they're accusing any decision of the National Council easily, then the appeal goes, now 36 cases are in court. There are many of them in the third round, in the fourth circle. I'm asking you simply, national MPs, pay attention to this. It's not hard to change the members of the National Council, you have to make them a foundation, a basis for work, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u187	National Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin. Please give the floor to a member of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Mikoli Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u189	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, Mr President, I would like to inform you that we have been looking at issues contrary to the law for two minutes now, so we are acting illegally, not only in violation of the Rules, but we are acting contrary to the law. And I want to express not only the position of the committee, but the position of the faction of our Ukraine. If the issue is now being considered illegally, the faction "Our Ukraine" refuses to participate in today's work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u191	Thank you. Please take your time. I'd like to ask Mikola Tomenko not to put ultimatums on, but to read documents normally. I am acting to ensure the effective work of the Supreme Council today. I would like to remind Mikola Tomenko that we have raised the documents of the previous vote, where the chairman has put forward the proposals that were for the vote. And there was a rating vote to ensure the outcome. I'm voting for Charlotte's candidacy. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:05:34]] For a hundred and For 194. The factions. Dear colleagues, there is another faction of Pauline’s candidacy. Pauline is in the hospital. I ask that we again ensure the objectivity of Pavelek Viktorovich’s candidacy for the rating vote. Please make up your mind. I. That he's in the hospital, that you may not vote and that's how you decide for him. [[12:06:11]] For 184 For 184. The factions. Thus, the honourable colleagues, according to the results of the ranking vote in first place Monday - 308 votes, second in Manjosov - 287 votes, third in Shevchenko - 221 votes, fourth in Laskowski - 208 votes. In this order, I place draft regulations on the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down now. I ask you once again, my dear fellows, we must finish the question. The commission's not ready. I'm voting on draft regulation 1345 on the appointment of Monday as a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. Please vote. [[12:07:23]] For 260 - 260 decisions made. The factions. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Manjosov as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. This is draft regulation 1345-3. Please vote. [[12:08:07]] For 410 Decision taken. The factions. I put to the vote a draft Supreme Council decision on the appointment of Shevchenk as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. This is draft regulation 1345-2. Please vote [[12:08:50]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a draft Supreme Council decision on the appointment of the Lassov National Council for Television and Radio. This is draft regulation 1345-1. Please make up your mind. [[12:09:28]] For 224 The factions. Dear colleagues! I am voting on draft regulation 1345-5 on the appointment of Scarlat as a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. Please vote. [[12:10:10]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! I'll bet you a vote on Pavelek Viktorovich. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the appointment of Pauline as a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. Project 1345-6. Please make up your mind. [[12:10:44]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down. I'll bet you a vote. Draft decision of the Supreme Council on the appointment of Zacharychenk as a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. Draft Decisions 1345-4. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:11:33]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Thus elected members of the National Council from the Supreme Council: Monday, Shevchenko and Manjosov. Let us welcome them and wish them success.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u192	Dear National Colleagues! I wanted to welcome our colleagues to Nacradia and say that, according to the law, we have another vacancy. Since we once again had a rating vote, our proposal is to re-vote the person who's got the biggest vote -- 224 -- and we're suggesting that we finish this issue today and give Nacradi the opportunity to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote draft decree 1345-1 on the appointment of Lassovski as a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. Please make up your mind. [[12:13:02]] For 223 The factions. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, as we are now going to the vote, I ask for an announcement, to report the voting order of the head of the provisional committee of the People's Deputies of Mishur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u194	Honourable National Deputies, the Counting Commission is ready to vote on candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. You'll be able to get tickets at the registration tables. You're going to get four ballots of this sample: here's the candidate's last name, its partying. On the other hand, there's an empty square and there's "I don't support the candidate." There is a request to the Supreme Council and to our presidency, since we have four ballots, to continue the vote, not for 45 minutes, but for an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, a recess of up to 13 hours is announced for the vote. At 1:15, we'll start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our work. We're continuing our work, dear colleagues. National MP Bondarchuk, please, with a motive. National Deputy Bondarczuk, Communist faction. National Deputy Bondarchuk Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u198	The distinguished people's deputies, the chairman, all of you know that there have been representatives of Donbassantracite holding company in Kiev for over a month, holding protests, hunger strikes demanding payment of wages. But it's not just about the miners who came to Kiev today. Wages for miners to date amount to about 1 billion 200 million grevens, and even on regressive claims against miners, some 600 million bracelets that have not been taken over by the Social Insurance Fund for the accident. In this regard, there are proposals to put this issue on the agenda today and to take a decision to settle the arrears of the miners. The President gave such orders to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers instructed the Ministry to address the problem accordingly. The Prime Minister of China has promised to pay off debts to coal miners by 1 July, and the problem has not been resolved to date. There is a proposal and we should consider the matter and adopt the relevant decision and its draft is given to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in the process of our work we can consider this issue of putting into order the daily 1346 draft decree and voting it. Is there any objection? Plus. So let's define now. I propose that, honourable colleagues, vote in favour of including in the order the daily draft of Decree 1346 on the repayment of the wages of miners. Please make up your mind. [[13:19:16]] For 221 For 221, no decision is taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, draft decree 1346 on the repayment of wages to miners. Please vote in favour of including this document in the agenda and voting. [[13:19:52]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have this document, I think it does not raise objections, I ask you to vote for it in general. Please vote. [[13:20:20]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to listen to another suggestion. In our time, we adopted the Supreme Council's Order on the appointment of Selivanov as Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court -- that was in 1999, and now the term of his mandate has run out, and the new Supreme Council has to confirm these powers. You have been given the Bill Rule 1348, and I ask you to vote in favour of including it in the agenda, if there is no objection, we will vote in favour of it at the same time as in favour of the document as a whole. Please vote. Please stand by, turn on the system. [[13:21:28]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you very much. Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the National MP Immortal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u200	The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm in favour of a previous vote on debt repayment. This is a strange dynamic for me. For three years we did not sow, nor did we pay our wages, and the glory of God paid off our debts, sown, and reaped crops. Three years later, we went back to voting for these decrees. Now we're sowing again, we're releasing fuel, we're putting out wealth on the payroll, I'm afraid to be a bad prophet, but what happens after this is debt, that's understandable. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in the coal complex, these are the only budget expenditures that have been made today by 118 percent. Why not pay the salary there is already a problem for prosecutors on the spot, not the Supreme Council, and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider in the next one this is the proper observation of the National MP of the Immortal. A draft decision on non-compliance by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on how to explain the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call is tabled for your consideration. National MP and head of the committee, Mikola Tomenko. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please. There is no Mikola Volodymyrovich. Then let's do it. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is this: a draft order of inquiry, so we'll probably postpone and consider it as soon as it appears. A draft decree on the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being introduced. Reporter to the Committee on Rules Valentin Grigorovich Matviev There's a document for you. There's a question for Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u202	I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u203	I'll bet you a vote, if you don't mind, in general. Draft decree on the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Please be supportive. [[13:23:54]] For 330. For -330, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we could now vote in favour of the draft Order on how to explain the work of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This document has been reconciled to all of them. Is there no objection? I would like you to vote now to be able to prepare for everyone so that the work of the Supreme Council can be fully explained. I bet, if there's no objection, the entire draft Order on how to explain the work of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. One minute, take the vote off. Please, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I have one word to support this important decision. The point is that we, and this is a common position, have decided not to create a conflict situation and to allow the first session of the National Television and Radio Company, the State Committee of Information Policy to think about the parliamentary attitude of this Parliament, to think that they need to implement our decisions in this way. And so in order to simplify their lives, we're proposing in this session that we make a decision about lighting up and work on our apparatus and committee for the second session. And so that we can start the second session clearly from the broadcast, from those television programs that are scheduled. And act in harmony with the decision. Please support the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u205	I'm betting on the vote on the draft regulation on how to explain the work of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, if there's no objection, in general. Please vote. [[13:26:00]] For 331 For 331. Decision taken. Thank you. The factions. For the reasons, please, the national deputy of Yavorowski Volodymyr Alexanderovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u206	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like you to know and know the national MPs. In the previous decree, we have a 30-minute release every day. I was at a meeting of the National Council. And they have a perfectly fair claim to the fact that our editor, who is, only gives out 10 minutes. That's why I'm asking you to give me a protocol assignment. Because that comes out of our guilt of the Supreme Council of Ignorance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u207	Thank you. We will establish control on both sides of the committee, and on the part of the Deputy Head of the Zinchenko Supreme Council, and we will give an appropriate commission. Dear colleagues, you are now under consideration for the draft Order of the Government of Ukraine in October 2002. Three draft decisions have been proposed. I'd like us to look at them quickly and determine how we vote. Is there a need to discuss them? Please, the first draft of the ruling. Francis Igor Anatolyevich, please. I want to remind you that we can have no more than two government days of determination on one day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u208	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In the electoral programmes of all parties, there was concern for the health of the nation. We all know about the critical state of health. Today, budgetary medicine in the present century has survived. If we do not make a final decision with you on the reform and the timing of this reform, Minshritis will continue to delay the implementation of the Act on State Social Health Insurance in terms of reform. The last composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted by law on second reading. All amendments to the People's Deputies have been taken into account. We are left with you to determine the time frame for the implementation of the law and to do so, not in 2007 or later, but in 2004. Otherwise, our health simply won't hold up until the people who really care about the industry come to Minhvod. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The question of bringing the Ministry of Health to a hearing within the Government's Day about the situation cannot be postponed to a later date. This is a social issue, first and foremost, and our voters are with you waiting for us to keep our promises. We request support for the draft order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u209	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote draft decree 1304 on Government Day in October 2002 in order. Dear colleagues! If there is a need to discuss them, we can discuss them. What about all three of them? Okay, thanks. For the report on the second proposal, please give the floor to the national MP Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u210	Dear National Deputies! The questions about the Cabinet of Ministers' information about the creation of the gas consortium were already being discussed and wanted to be released in this month. There was a clear proposal from representatives of different factions to consider this question when it would be done by the relevant Commission of the Cabinet of Ministers on the creation of a gas consortium of materials and proposals. And that's why there's an October proposal to include this question. Until then, you know the term set by the President, the question will be dealt with in the Cabinet of Ministers, the proposals prepared, and we consider it appropriate to consider in October the issue of the creation of a gas consortium. And the request, it was an offer, by the way, and the faction of "the only Ukraine" to move this question forward for later. Asking others to support this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u211	Thank you. According to Project 1304-2, the word is given by national deputy Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u212	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! There's probably no person in Ukraine who doesn't care for the problems of the oil and gas complex, which is close to the special capacity and charismaticness of both the economic and, in fact, the national development system at the same time a very complex system that still has no proper reform. Therefore, the Democratic Initiative Group, as its members, proposes to hold a Government Day for October on the implementation of the State Policy on the condition of the reform of Ukraine's oil and gas complex and its impact on the socio-economic development of the State and the implementation of Ukraine's legislation in this area under order 1304-2. Dear colleagues, I think that these hearings are not just a formal problem, they're going to require us to prepare substantively and mainly to introduce a large number of programming positions so that the government can form the only national energy development programme where the oil and gas industry is the main component. At this time, we are seeing a significant crisis in this area. We're talking about it as an integral backbone of the Ukrainian economy, but it forms almost a third of the state budget, but at the same time, we see that the problems that arise there will not allow it to be used as a tool to improve economic and social, first of all, development. I therefore propose to support this draft decision and to conduct these hearings with the aim of developing a national oil and gas development programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u213	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich. Dear colleagues, in the order of coming, I am voting on a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Government of Ukraine in October 2002 with the agenda: on the state of affairs in the country’s health system as a whole. I'm betting on a draft ruling as a whole. Please make up your mind. [[13:33:33]] For 325 For 325, the decision is made. I'm betting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution 1304-1 on Ukrainian Government Day in October 2002 with the agenda: information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the economic relevance of creating a consortium for the administration of Ukraine's gas transport system. I'd like to make up my mind, Your Honor. [[13:34:11]] For 131 "For" - 131. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm voting on draft Decree 1304-2 on Government Day in October 2002 with the agenda "Implementation of State Policy on the Status of the Reform of the U.K. oil and gas complex, its impact on the socio-economic development of the state and the implementation of Ukraine's legislation in this area." Please make up your mind. [[13:34:54]] For 263 "For" - 263. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a draft order for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine into the circumstances of the killings of journalists George Gongadze, Igor Alexandrov, an attack on the lives of the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Jelyashkevich and violations by the State's constituents of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. There's a need. Vote? With Hubsky's motives, please, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u214	Your Honor, of course, the decision is very interesting and fair, but after the words "Alexandra Jeliaškević" I would have put a stop to it, because it's not entirely legal. And in that case, we could vote for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u215	Thank you. Please, Gregory Omelanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Each Ukrainian national deputy has the right to make an addition to the name of a certain law and to the name of a particular decision, to put a dot with a comma, tire, defision, or to throw away a word or another word. The drafters of this bill have introduced a bill that has been named, which has been fully read by the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and we will vote in favour of this draft regulation. If you had made this motion for a ruling, then I would have asked the Chief of the Supreme Council to put this motion to a vote on the deletion of the last sentence. She's got to get 226 votes, and then we're going to vote for, excuse me, the short title of the Order. Now, I ask you to vote in favour of the name that has been given by the members, the initiators of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, Gregory Omelanovic! This entry has been changed. I'll read it as suggested by the committee. Then we vote, okay? Here I am. We're here with you. Dear colleagues, I'll tell you what was the offer back then, maybe we'll stop and vote now. The proposal was to create a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the killings of journalists, George Gongadze, Igor Aleksandrov, and the assault on the lives of the national deputy, Alexander Jeliaškević, and the violations committed by the statesmen of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Is that the way it's going to be? Do you mind, Gregory Omelanovic?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u218	Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, one minute! "Penalty can't be pardoned," and depending on what sign you put. So the members of the constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko passed a bill of decree that was read to you without this addition. The one you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, read in the last vote, you didn't vote for. In exchange, we reintroduced the draft decree that we read, and he did. As I said, about the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the killings of journalists by George Gongadze, Igor Alexandrov, the attack on the lives of Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Jelyashkewich and the violations by the statesmen of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The Committee on the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine vote in favour of this draft decision. And I'm asking you to put a draft ruling on the one that I'm currently standing up for, which is recommended by the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, is everything clear? I would like to vote on draft regulation 1178. About the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the circumstances of the killings of journalists -- George Gongadze, Igor Aleksander's assault on the lives of the Ukrainian national deputy, Alexander Jelyaškević, and the facts of violations by the State parties to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. I'm voting in general. [[13:39:32]] For 186 The decision is made by factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u220	Yes, dear friends! Thank you for the support of this Order, I ask the members of the Temporary Deputy Investigation Commission, when a lunch break is announced, to rise to the 3rd floor for an organizational meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u221	Dear colleagues! We voted with you to put two draft decrees in order of the day. I ask them now to vote to go, to move on. Draft Resolution 1330 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of a temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on financial and economic grounding, sources and mechanism for the recovery of Ukrainian citizens' savings. If there is no objection, I would like to vote as a document as a whole, please vote. Please vote ZA. [[13:41:03]] For 241 For -241. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, another vote. This is a draft of Decree 1256, establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of illegal arms trafficking, military property and their illegal transfer to other countries. And taking into account the replacement of one member of the commission. Please vote. Please make up your mind. [[13:41:54]] For 276 For -276. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have come up with a coalition when we voted in favour of national deputy Ivan Fedorovich Kuras, for the additional inclusion of the temporary commission, the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on the investigation of mass violations of electoral legislation during the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and local self-government bodies in the Donetsk Region, the cities of Odessa, Kirovograd in January, March and June 2002 of the Ukrainian national deputies. Please listen. Colonyari, Resnika, Noshchenka, Potapova Vasil Ivanovich, Hare Vladimir (faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine (United States), Martinovski (Faction "Agrarians of Ukraine"), Melnikov (National Choice Group) and Ryabikina (National Government Group). [[faction of the "Regions of Ukraine"]] [["Democratic Initiatives"]] [[The faction of political parties "Industries and Entrepreneurs" and "Urrigible Ukraine"]] [["European Choice"]] This document is registered at number 1325 and distributed to you. I'd like us to maintain legal purity here, vote for this document. Please vote, Your Honor. [[13:43:33]] For 244 For the 244. Decision taken. The People's Deputy of the Teeth. Please. I hear you're very well-respected colleagues. According to factions, explain the results of the last vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u222	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for the second time today, you are in grave violation of the rules of procedure of the Supreme Council, as President of the Supreme Council. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill has not been tabled today. That's the first one. Second. He did not have a discussion on the committee. You are deliberately under the pressure of certain clans in this room, and I emphasize that you are in grave violation of the rules of the Supreme Council. I would like to inform you that dozens of people's deputies today have requested the Committee on the Rules to recognize this issue today as a matter of grave violation of the Rules and to declare the vote invalid. I call your attention, as President of the Supreme Council, to the inadmissibility of such an approach to the Rules as the basic law of the work of the Supreme Council. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Chief Editor of the Ukrainian Supreme Council, Voice of Ukraine. The first deputy committee head, Pravdenko Sergey Makarovich, will be the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u224	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. I would like to report to you not only in the last year, but preferably in the course of the entire period of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. The idea, as well as what is now accepted as a newspaper project, was designed in 1990 by me and my fellow journalists. The purpose of the project was to have newspapers come together, cross the minds of the various political forces represented in Parliament, as well as of readers and professional journalists. This approach has been approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the previous vocation, and since then the newspaper has been able to withstand this line, becoming almost a kind of phenomenon from among the general Ukrainian editions, the vast majority of which are direct or slightly veiled by some political forces and economic interests. In this sense, the Voice of Ukraine is one of the last islands to respect freedom of speech. I would like to point out that my party membership does not affect the political line of the newspaper at all. No one can give up, let's say that in the last four years, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko or the Fatherland faction would have had any advantage on the pages of the Supreme Council newspaper. It's the principle of our collective and it's my principle. In the early years, the newspaper acquired a common Ukrainian name. Now it is known in all parts of Ukraine, even by those who have never read it or who are somehow without a reading process. Today, the Voice of Ukraine is published in 150,000 copies, has a stable army of subscribers and significant mail. Every year, 20 or 30 thousand letters come to the press. The paper is published in two languages: Ukrainian and Russian, and has six additional editions for national minorities. The prepaid price per year for natural persons is 35 dollars, for institutions is 45. The newspaper's leading and quite popular sections today are Parliamentary Chronicle, Economics, the Supreme Council Committees, the Evolution of Power, Self-Government, Euro-Integration and others. The newspaper’s publication seeks to carry out its duties conscientiously, listens to the thoughts and suggestions of national deputies, readers, and develops and improves on this basis. Of course, there are flaws. The process of creating them, of overcoming them, of searching for them, of success, of failure is all in the newspaper, which is a living organism. But I have every right to say -- "The Voice of Ukraine" happened, it is, it will be. And I'll tell you by secret, it's even written about it and it's pretty beautiful. I could show it from the tape recorder, but the tape recorders have become too anecdote in this room, so I'm not going to do that. And now, actually, the question about the editor-in-chief of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. From a formal point of view, it's right. I became a national deputy, and before that, I wrote a statement. But, dear colleagues, I was a member of Parliament in the past and the editor-in-chief of the paper exclusively on creative issues, without an editor's salary. My workbook is located in the Supreme Council, and no one has had that under some personal exceptions. The matter, or newspaper, helped. At least the Supreme Council and the committees could not sit on the paper, which is a big deal because the apparatus, if you let us and the people’s deputies down, will be ready to command. You know that. So today's issue is not a formal one, because the Constitution allows the MP to do creative work. It would be foolish for her to forbid it. So, as editor of the Voice of Ukraine, only the Supreme Council can decide without looking back on my mandate. I have to report that in the last year -- even more so -- the newspaper Voice of Ukraine is being tested again and again across and through. The Public Prosecutor's Office of the capital at the request of the General, the taxpayer, the Audit Authority -- they've all spent a great deal of power on human beings, and they haven't found any significant violations of legislation or financial discipline. For example, we are sometimes thrown at strange things. Gennady Josephovich, this is to your personal attention. Last year, "The Voice of Ukraine," for example, unethically getting budgeted, and having been tasked by the Supreme Council to maintain and assist supplements for national minorities, he sent these newspapers 600,000 dollars a year. So we've sent these newspapers 50,000 budget dollars, 50,000 dollars, and 550,000 extra-budgetary funds, which are actually made by Voice of Ukraine. We understood, if we don't, that one, two, three supplements for national minorities or Jewish or Romanian or Crimean or Crimean or Polish or Bulgarian might not come out of the world, and this is a scandal at the level of the Council of National Minorities in the Council of Europe, that is, the Committee of National Minorities. That's why we pulled away from each other. We're told by testers that this is how you hide your income from taxes by giving the apps money. It took me a week to explain to the taxpayers that it's a state matter, that's the first. And second of all, the money we're sending to the apps, we're paying taxes for them as they should be. There are other absurd, for example, accusations of why there is no agreement between the Supreme Council and the newspaper on the publication of the Supreme Council. A formal contract is meant by the law on the disclosure of public council bodies and local self - government on media or television and radio. We tell them, and again, our lawyers tell us that the treaty is not necessarily, on the one hand, a brigade, on the other hand, an editorial or vice versa; that the Supreme Council's decision on disclosure, which obliges us to do this, this and this, on the one hand, and the line in the state budget that provides for us, on the other hand, is actually a contract. Because the form of the contract can legally be different. Once again we have to spend, me and my first deputy, week, week, second, third to explain simple and understandable truths to the examiners. However, the tests have already been completed, the CRU has already drawn its conclusions, I repeat, where there is no record other than what I have called any substantial infringement. [[They consider it a violation, by the way, what I called, and expenses and so on.]] On June 7th, we received the conclusions of the CPR, and we thought of them. But the City Attorney’s Office, which promised to close the case, has not yet done so. I have reason to believe that the price of closing the case is my resignation as editor-in-chief. You can agree with that, because being in any position isn't forever. In the meantime, you are faced with the most respected, respected colleagues in Ukraine and the surrounding areas, the editor - general, who is not going to cohesively hold on to this position. It's up to you to decide who's on it. Of course, I can’t hide it. It’s not easy for me. But who's it easy now?Oh, my God! He needs to know that the field of battle after victory belongs to the mariners. That's the only thing the initiators have confirmed is the Voice of Ukraine. But I'm sure there are no marauders in the Supreme Council. I would like to conclude by personally thanking the subscribers and readers, as well as the previous heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, especially John Stepanovich Plush and Alexander Alexandrovitch Moroz, with whom I have been interested in working. I wish you all, honourable national deputies, that our work may be successful. And I repeat, of course, I don't hold this position. I have the honour. Thank you for your attention. There can be no one forever, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-11-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've also been given an answer from the Attorney General's Office. I asked the Committee of the Attorney General to provide information. The answer was received from the Attorney General. Summary of this answer: "On July 10th of this year, the audit is not complete, and no conclusion has been reached with the investigating authorities. Once it's received in a strict time frame, the decision will be made according to the requirements of the law." We'll keep this issue under control and work with the Attorney General's Office to keep you informed of the results. Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to recommend that Anatolia Fedorovich Gorlova be the editor-in-chief of the newspaper Golos Ukrainiana. You know him. Is there a need to discuss? I'll put it to a vote. I'm introducing a draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the Chief Editor of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine at number 1344. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:56:03]] For 256 For 256. Decision taken. Thank you. And let's welcome Gorlova Anatolia Fedorovich. And let's, dear fellows, thank Pravdenko Sergey Makarovich, and we'll expect him to keep working in the paper, we'll resolve this joint issue in order to have a good result, so that the newspaper will objectively, as before, highlight the processes that are taking place in Ukraine, and the activities of the Supreme Council. By factions, please explain. Dear colleagues, we have a lunch break coming up. I'd like to ask you, carefully, honourable colleagues, to vote on another proposal. Today, we must consider all the questions we have planned. I ask you to vote that after the evening meeting we continue until the conclusion of the agenda for today. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:57:18]] For 207 I'm asking you to explain to the factions, especially for journalists. Dear colleagues, the Commission is counting. I think we'll announce the results after 16 hours. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00.
