ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system. Please register. [[10:04:30]] Registered -394 There are 394 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares open Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Kamenyash Aleksandra Mihajlovich, Anatoly Volodymyrovich, and Sokirka Mikli Vasilovich. Let us greet them, wish them health, success, and all sorts of good things. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 4.2.2., 4.2. 3 I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the entry of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Mokrousov Anatolia Alexiyovich, as part of the People's Rule of Procedure. The Head of the People's Government MP group has been elected the authorized representative of this group of the Hubs' Bogdan Volodymirovich. Gavriluk Vasil Vasilovich, Gurova Vadim Mikolaiovich, Demijohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, Mirimsky Lev Yuriovich and Osik Sergija Grigorovovich are also authorized to represent the People's Government. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules of Procedure on Friday, we are discussing the order of the day session, the schedule for this day is offered to you, and you have it. The rules do not allow for the consideration of requests today, but if you do not object and if you agree to do so, you might be able to make those requests that have come. Is there no objection? Peter Stepanovich, you have him. Questions came from Ukrainian national deputies: Catherine Samuelk and Anatolo Orzhachowski to the President of Ukraine regarding the legality of the transfer of the VAT package "Herson Combains" to the statutory fund of the lysing company "Ukraglochasinvest". Considering our colleague’s birthday today, we must be supportive. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:02]] For 211 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Dear colleagues, I need 226 votes. Please be supportive. [[10:07:25]] For 261 Decision taken. Groups of factions and groups of deputies: Frost, Tihypko, Bogatirirova, Yushchenko and others - only 11 national deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the creation and equipping of the baby cardiosurgery centre in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:59]] For 277 Decision taken. Sergey Slabenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the explanation of the reasons why the financing of the construction of health - care facilities in Volinsk was discontinued. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:08:26]] For 221 Decision taken. Deputies: Astrov, Shumilov, Gapoczka, Bagraev, Topolov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the calculation of energy coal by the mining companies Rowenkiantractit and Sverdlov-anthracite. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please vote. [[10:08:59]] For 210 Decision taken. Andrija Shkyla to Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the poor agricultural situation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:09:23]] For-153 Decision taken. Stanislawa Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the incomplete implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers decree on measures to address the socio-economic problems of the Hersonian region. In part of the financing of measures to eliminate the effects of the accident on CHEUS. I'll bet you a vote on that request. Please make up your mind. [[10:09:56]] For-195 Decision taken. Deputies' groups: Fomenko, Rabbit, Noshchenko, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state budget funding status of local budgets for the provision of benefits and subsidies to the population. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please vote. [[10:10:28]] For 169 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachovsky, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the crisis situation that took place in the activities of the Open Shareholder Society of the Calanchi region of the Hersonian region. I'll bet you a vote on the request, please. [[10:11:00]] For-160. For 160, the decision is made. Andrew School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the improper financing of the education sector of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:24]] For-166 For - 166, the decision is made. Vladimir Matvieva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of the budget allocated to the creation of workplaces when mines are closed. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:48]] For 180. For 180, the decision is made. Vladimir Zubanova to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Seminozhenko on the deterioration of the status of service, treatment, technical equipment in Ukraine's only hospital of military internationalists. I'll bet you a vote on the direction, please. [[10:12:19]] For-179 For - 179, the decision is made. Astrov, Shumilov, Gapoczka, Bagraiev, Topolov, to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the exceedment by the executive body of the City Village Council of the Preval region of Lugansk. I'd like to vote on the motion, please. [[10:12:50]] For 128 For - 128, the decision is made. John Stoyko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee of Information Policy, Television and Radio on the application of censorship, the destruction of the Ternopil District Council's press and the district administration and the abuse of the authority of the head of the Ternopil district administration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:13:31]] For-136 For - 136, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies - Mihović, Baloga, Ivanča - to the Minister of Culture and Arts of Ukraine for the completion of the restoration of the Zacarpathian Philharmonic. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:14:00]] For-191 For 191, the decision is made. Leonidas Cherniewsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to check the budget spending with the management of the Kyiv City Council. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:29]] For-94 For 94, the decision is made. Anatolysa Moroza to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the payment of arrears from salary for the period 1999-2001 for workers of the department number 2 of Melitotopyl closed stockholder society Spectre, Zaporezki district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:06]] For 168 For - 168, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, for your consideration. Please, National Deputy Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We are all concerned about developments in Moscow, where there are Ukrainian citizens among the hostages. It feels, and we know it from the media, which is what the MSA and the Ambassador of Ukraine in the Russian Federation are taking all possible steps to free them. And yet, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it would be appropriate to invite a representative of the Ministry here today to provide us and our voters with comprehensive information on this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the offer of a national MP I think you heard. I just had a conversation with Secretary of State Sergey Yuri Anatoliyovich, and he informed us about the latest events that in Moscow time about 11 o'clock should set our hostages free. I think we can suggest that we invite Sergei to inform us about the state of affairs and the results of our diplomatic institutions around 12:30. Is there no objection? Thank you. Once again, dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to one such situation. I suggest at 12 o'clock we don't take a break so we can work hard. Is there no objection? Thank you. You are considering a draft Act amending some of the legislative acts on the bankruptcy of mining and fuel and energy companies. People's deputy Volintz with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. The point is that similar bills were passed by the people’s deputies, Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, Jooffe Yuliy Yakovich, also by me. And one of them that is being considered today is also similar and goes on the same subject. And I don't see why other bills aren't under consideration, and especially mine. I've written a statement to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u5	Yes, I know, my dear colleague, I suggest you have five minutes to justify your project, which you really did, and somehow not made by the committee. Is there no objection? Please, for help, Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u6	Thank you. Gurenko, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There is an order that is strictly observed by our committee that all the bills are considered in the presence of the authors. We invited Mr. Wolintz and Mr. Joseph and Mr. Stoyan three times. For the third time, Mr. Stoyan appeared. We've considered it. Mr. Wolintz appeared last Wednesday for a fourth challenge. We've considered it. It'll be ready, I don't see any problems. These bills will be considered, the committee will take into account, both of them, and I don't see any problems now for further discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleague, Volinec, you'll have the opportunity, you'll argue your position and all. We don't need to continue this discussion right now. Please, Mikola Vasilovich, if you please, within five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u8	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I, the People's Deputy of Gurenco and Hara, are introducing Bill 1049 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the bankruptcy of mining companies in the fuel and energy complex. In recent years, political, economic and other reasons, including unskilled coal governance, as well as financial insecurity, have made the vast majority of coal-based enterprises unprofitable with low technical and economic performance and, as a result, have become insolvent. Under such conditions, the bankruptcy procedure can be applied to almost all mining companies. During the 1997 - 2001 period, nearly 130 bankruptcy cases, including 80 mines, were violated and tried by arbitral tribunals under the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. All businesses that are tried by the courts have been declared bankrupt. According to the decisions of the arbitral tribunals, sanctions are carried out, and property managers are appointed. After the resolution of the sanctions, the authority of the management of the enterprises and their authorities ceases to exist. Arbitral supervisors with full authority over the debtor’s property are refusing to perform previously concluded contracts, undertaking measures to support mines in a technologically and environmentally hazardous state, as well as safety at work. All of this leads to a hidden privatization of objects, making it possible to sell objects far below the balance sheet. There is no solution to the problem of the obligation of business-borrowers to workers whose health and life are damaged, as well as to the compensation of other costs for the recovery of damaged housing and other objects. In view of the determination of the insolvency of enterprises, the possibility of carrying out such measures is questioned. The practice shows that such a way of financial recovery is not justified by the bankruptcy of coal companies. Moreover, by causing great damage to the state, he placed a fuel - power complex in a very difficult position, creating considerable tension in mining cities, villages, and communities. The experience gained in many coal companies, which have managed to avoid bankruptcy, has been successful in solving both industrial and social problems. Thus, the adoption of this law along with other measures will have a positive impact on the economic and financial recovery of the coal sector, and on this basis it will be possible to increase coal production significantly reduced social tension in mining regions. The adoption of the bill does not require additional budget costs. The only thing I want to report is that the Committee on Fuel Energy and Economic Policy has had a positive opinion on the adoption of this bill. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! The question to Nikolay Vasilovich is? Please sign up, five minutes per question. Semenyuk Valentina, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, then Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u10	Dear Mikolo Vasilovich, of course such a bill is required, but I have a question for you. Please state how it will reflect and prevent fictitious bankruptcy, which is being created not only in mining complexes today, but in general, in this bill in particular. I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u11	The Bankruptcy Act is in force today. But in particular, it has a negative impact on the mountain today. It's in the sinks. The shafts are now state-owned enterprises and the application of the so-called sanctions today endangers the activities of enterprises in general. Today, the Public Prosecutor's Office has arrested people who, at the time of the commission of the group accidents, major technological and human victims, are illegally detained only because, under the bankruptcy law, they are currently incapacitated, they have no right to sign, they have no right to dispose of financial documents. I therefore believe that it is in general necessary to amend the bankruptcy law on this issue. But since I am confident that the changes will not be made in this room, we, the drafters of the bill, have chosen a path to restrict the law, to amend three laws: the law on the restoration of payability, the law on the privatization of state property, and a number of others, to make such changes that the moratorium on bankruptcy would be announced in due course. Second. The bankruptcy of the already declared bankrupt people would be halted, the structure of the debt dealt with and thus allowed the mines, the public enterprises that are now budgeted, to work properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u12	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u13	Dear Mikolo Vasilovich! Hinzburg, 161 constituency. I want to join you for the first time on your birthday and I want to say that Ukraine is, you've always needed your Motherland. And I have a question. That's the problem in my district. Sanitation comes, then businesses go bankrupt, then people get paid off, and there's no way out. I would like to ask you: Is there no connection with your law and the law that Semenyuk filed after the reprivatization? Is there any way that it can be reflected in your law that if they come to sanctions, then return if it has been done wrong? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u14	Well, I practically answered that question: I need to make changes to that fundamental Act on Restoring the Payability of the Debtor or Recognition of Its bankruptcy. That's where these changes have to be made. I am reporting today a law that deals exclusively with the energy complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u15	Alexander Stoyan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all I want to say that as soon as I've been informed that the matter will be heard on the committee, I've come for the first time, not the third time. That's up to Mr. Guerrenk. Second of all, the committee supported my proposals. And thirdly, I don't mind solving the problems of miners, but the same is true when other businesses, factories, factories are bankrupt, so my law has a broader purpose. I'd like us to look at it anyway, especially since it's accepted by the committee. And to the question reporter. Please tell me if this is the case. When bankruptcy is taking place today, there is a need for a member of the labour force, which requires two thirds of the labour force’s congregations to do so. Are trade unions supposed to be represented, as is the case with the Trades Act? And the second. In the course of bankruptcy, no one is responsible for the arrears. In that law that I'm introducing, it's going to change. Is your law presupposes that when bankruptcy occurs first, it should be calculated on a salary basis with employees? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. The question is clear, but I'll try to give you a quick answer. The fact is that the drawing table that you're all going to give back to you is clearly saying what changes you're going to make. I literally remind them. The End Position Act, the Law on Restoration of Indebted Persons. We propose to formulate the following. The bankruptcy of the shareholders' association of the palivative energy complex, created in the process of privatization and corporateization, can be violated only after privatization has been completed. I mean, execution of the stock placement plan. The End Position Act, we amend the following. "The case of the bankruptcy of mining companies: mines, mines, miners, Eurocutes, enrichment factories, mining enterprises; they are not violated from the date of publication of this law until 1 January 2005. I mean, in answer to your question, I mean. That Law 1049 solves the problem is fundamental, not framework. That is, there is virtually a moratorium on the bankruptcy of mines.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u18	Mikola Vasilovich, thank you, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! Taking advantage of what I was on the rostrum yesterday, I wanted to, but Vladimir Mikhailovich didn't give me the whole word. Of course, all 450 deputies, we all criticize the chairman, our speaker, but I would like to thank the voters who were actively calling me yesterday and tomorrow on the next issue. You know, for the past four years, we've been fighting that the information space has been blocked and the work of the Supreme Council hasn't been covered. I think it is our presidency's invention that it has allowed all the voters of Ukraine to listen to the sobering question that we have heard about the political situation in Ukraine. It's me personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u20	The word for the report. Dear colleagues, we're writing down for discussion, so you've got it there. Please, and then when you insist at the end, we will. For the co-report, I'm asking you to come to Victor Ivanovich Turmanov's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u21	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Experiments in the coal industry have led most coal enterprises to a complex socio-economic situation. At present, as my colleagues have already reported before me, more than 80 coal industry enterprises are in bankruptcy. With the budget funding offered by the Cabinet of Ministers for 2003, 63 mines, I am officially telling you, will also become bankrupt. The introduction of the current Bankruptcy Act, particularly in coal enterprises, has not improved and improved the financial situation of the lost, low-cost enterprises in the industry. All funds derived from the sale of the debtor's property are channelled mainly to creditors and no funds remain in the collectives, and this is what has been discussed today, especially the payment of wages. In practice, coal industry is being destroyed. Therefore, the author's view of the bill on the bankruptcy of coal enterprises and of the fuel and energy complex should be supported. And the relevant committee proposes to adopt the bill and to introduce it on first reading. In the follow-up process, all pros and cons should be carefully weighed in order to avoid possible inconsistencies between legislatively defined rules, privatization procedures and bankruptcy. Finally, I would like the people's deputies to know what the law on bankruptcy is and what it has brought to the coal industry. I'm calling the last two examples: last year, Kirov's mine was in recovery, we had an accident, we lost 10 miners. [[Maceyeugol]] One reason is that cable was not replaced on time. Because a health worker was appointed there as a sanatorium. I've always said, and once again, mine is not an air conditioning or furniture factory, it's a precipice of particular danger. Let me give you a second example. The "Ukraine" shaft this year, you know what tragedy we've had there. Well, there are unskilled mountain wardens, chief engineer, director. That question will be answered. But the most important question is: the mine was also put on a sanitization site, which was run by a female economist, who also had nothing to do with our industry's mining industry. It has all the financial flows. It was time to replace the rubber band. She didn't replace us. There was smoke, burning, and, as a result, people died. We therefore support the Bankruptcy Act today. And he needs to be suspended, taken care of. And I suggest that the people's deputies support it. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you have any questions, please sign in. Please point it on the board. Alexander Stoyan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u23	Dear colleague Viktor Ivanovich, I will certainly support this bill because it concerns the protection of miners. But what I'd like to say is there's other areas: both metallurgy, and chemicals, and a lot of other areas -- that also need social protection. And I'm also addressing you as a professional leader, my colleague. Please tell us if we can combine your law and the one that makes Volinec's colleague and I? Because it expands the social protection of all workers? How do you feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u24	Thank you. I would like to say that with regard to the coal industry, once again, Alexander Nikolaevich, today the situation has become quite critical. The coal industry is being destroyed by this law that is working today. As for your law, Mikhail Yakovic, we spoke yesterday, Jooff, I think we should consider them, unite them. There is a great deal of good and valuable, especially in your law, the role of the same sanatoriums, which must primarily provide people with wages, is being strengthened to deal directly with the problems of people in enterprises. I'm for uniting and for this law to work for the people of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u25	Alexander Bondarczuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u26	Victor Ivanovich, well, you've really rightly pointed out here that the coal industry is, to this day, covered by the current policy. In financing the industry next year as represented by the Cabinet of Ministers, I believe that 70 mines that we have will be bankrupt. In this regard, a number of bills are now being proposed, namely, the bankruptcy of enterprises. Perhaps, in your view, as Chairman of the Coal Workers' Union, you think it might be a more effective means to, well, let's say, such a strong sectoral strike that would finally draw our Government's attention to really serious financing of this industry. Otherwise, two years and nothing from our mines will ever be left. Your opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u27	Thank you. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the Government has not been providing regular budget funding over the years. More to the point, recall 1996 when the industry was deprived of subsidies at all, and then returned through a protest by a coal trade union. But I think we'll be doing our share when the government doesn't go to our meeting. I would like to draw the attention of all the deputies present, all the factions, to support the 2003 budget of the industry, in accordance with the Ukrainian Coal programme approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, there are clear calculations. The Sectoral Committee therefore suggested that the industry should be financed in 2003 in accordance with the Ukrainian Coal programme approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, 5.4 billion. I'd like the deputies to know and support this. In the end, I say again, for 10 years, the industry has normally never been financed. And here too, let's take responsibility as people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u28	Katerina Fomenko, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm asking you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ckitishvili.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u30	Please, Tskitishvili. Please say so, take your seat. Please check what happened there. Please turn on the microphone at Catherine Fomenko and sit at her workplace. Fomenko, please turn on the microphone, the European Choice Group. Turn on the workplace of the Fomenko People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u31	National Deputy Tskitishvili, People's Choice Group. I would like to support your statement on support for the Committee's decision to allocate funds, but I would like to say, literally, the following. You know, I want to vote against your proposal and I want to convince my colleagues of my findings. First. Sanitation and the Bankruptcy Act are not always a disaster for the enterprise. We can talk about any business stop, but I've been through it. I was in charge of the rehabilitation of a company with 22,000 people. During this period, we paid off 250 million debts to the State, gave them to the State, increased wages and did not reduce any employees. This adept healing, I beg your pardon, I do not give myself an example, with an adept approach to this decision there is always an ironclad way out of this provision. Therefore, I would like to invite colleagues not to take a final decision on this matter until the budget is adopted to see what funds are made available to business managers. And for individual leaders, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u33	Let me answer that. I'm talking again. Before me, my colleague spoke and I am reporting today, once again, with regard to the bankruptcy law, we have learned in practice today, 80 enterprises today are in the bankruptcy phase of mines. The financing of the industry will still be there. Therefore, the coal industry is in arrears in previous years, and everyone who wants to is going to go bankrupt. And the last. We have a lot of tax debts. We're broke and we're taxed. Therefore, with regard to coal enterprises, please, my distinguished colleague, please support. This is a very serious issue, so it is not necessary to make that statement today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u34	Thank you. Time's up. Victor Ivanovich, thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Mikhail Volinec, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u35	Dear Head! Deputies! I am a new MP, and in my work I try to act on the Rules and other documents. I still don't quite understand what the characteristics of committee work are and when I'm in command of the Supreme Council -- in a foreign command -- and an hour before the meeting, the committee invites me to this meeting and then says that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u36	Dear colleague, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u37	So I'm asking these questions sometime.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u38	Dear colleague! Come on, you'll be able to figure out the relationship, and now let's talk about it. We're just wasting time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u39	With regard to the bill that I made, this number 2046 of July 31, 2000 proposes to amend article 43, "The Personality of Bankruptcy of Particularly Dangerous Enterprises". Underlining, especially dangerous businesses. Paragraph 7, which provides that the requirements arising from the bankruptcy of the employees of the company are primarily met, namely, the liquidation of the debt on wages, the obligations arising from the damage to the life and health of the citizens and the payment of the termination of relief to the workers of the bankruptcy, and the requirements provided for by the mortgage, as provided for by law today. This order will correspond to Convention No. 95 of the International Organization for the Protection of Wages is totally acceptable. Since we understand that if national legislation conflicts with international legislation and makes it worse, international legislation takes precedence in such a situation. The adoption of the latest changes to Ukraine's law on debt recovery or bankruptcy will allow real investors to be found and the destruction of artificial bankruptcy, which is important to the economy of the state. And I want to make it even more clear that today, in our country, the debt on wages is one and a half billion dollars, which is the main creditor of a company that is declared bankrupt. But at the same time, this is a moment of artificial bankruptcy. For example, a mine or other enterprise costs 1 million or several tens of millions, and it is mortgaged to a bank for taking credit. This stop is estimated to be about 100,000 dollars. Once again, the company costs several tens of millions of dollars. That's how artificial bankruptcy goes. In this case, as I suggest, there will be an opportunity to avoid artificial bankruptcy and pay off on time the wages of the debtor's employees. In addition, the proposals of the national deputy, Alexander Stoyan, are quite serious, where he foresees participation from employees, the participation of trade unions in the rehabilitation of the enterprise, and the participation of the commission. Let's move on. It's a very serious offer proposed by Alexander Stoyan, this is a reconciliation of the issue of the dismissal of employees from the borrower's business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u40	Thank you. Thank you, all, Mikhail Volodymyrovich, thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u41	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The proposed bill is very serious and deserves all the support, first of all, and second of all, I am addressing the authors, the national MPs Kravchenk, Gurenko, Harry and Stoyan. Dear friends, please don't limit yourself to the fact that this law is intended to protect only a fraction of the enterprises -- mining enterprises, fuel-energy enterprises. I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the past has adopted the Law on the Introduction of a Moratorium on Forced Realisation of Property, which was aimed at ensuring the economic security of the State, and it was called: not allowing the destruction of entire assets of state enterprises as well, protecting the interests of the State during the implementation of the assets of households whose statutory funds account for at least 25 percent. In fact, this law is not being implemented, which is why we today are forced to make such changes and talk about some particular enterprise. Let's forget that businesses in general have to be distributed in the field, because we're only going to be taking laws into separate enterprises, we're going to get to that soon. We need to protect this state property. That's it. So you have to expand everything in the law. And where you write, section 7, paragraph 1, “Ending positions”, you add paragraph 3, “The bankruptcy of mining enterprises”, you have to write “businesses where there is a share of state property”. That's the first one. And the second. I have a serious offer. I have a proposal for a committee on the fight against organized crime and corruption, for other professional committees, such as the issue of law enforcement. With a view to preparing a report by the Ukrainian prosecutor’s office on this issue, the supervision of compliance with this legislation. And also a report by the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue, how the laws we have already passed are being implemented. Because we're forced to adopt new laws, and in fact, the state is breaking. With their help, unsupervised. And then I went to the D.A.'s office. The head of the department is giving a press conference. There's a circus in any state. They found the people who are giving the press conference. They have to watch legislation and report here to the Supreme Council, then there will be no need to engage in the political activities of the people who have to monitor the maintenance of property. In general, I wanted to thank you for drafting the bill, the truth, the wish, the wish to step down, after all, the legal mechanism to invent a universal mechanism for everything. And it's a wish for everyone not to make a special law in a particular field. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion and consideration of the matter have been concluded with regard to the decision. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! As rapporteur, I will answer literally for a minute the questions that have been asked. The People's Deputy Skitishvili asked a question, and I almost answered it. I want to refocus your attention. The bankruptcy of the mine, this is a particularly sophisticated scheme, which is conducted cynically, abruptly, so to speak. And it's perfectly simple. Under the public funds allocated, a call is made to the director of the mine, who is obliged to buy equipment at an overpriced price in a firm. Then, after that, a bankruptcy procedure is announced, literally two weeks later. And the mine is thus designated as a sanator, usually by this firm, which is not for weeks, does not sign financial documents, and the mine is groaning, the mine is becoming unprofitable and so on. That's why the mining bankruptcy scheme, and why it was actually the idea in the coal industry to miss it. We cannot today, I am sure that the repeal of the law or the amendment of the law in general on bankruptcy in all sectors will not be confirmed in the hall, but in the coal sector, I am sure that the hall will support us. I am addressing both Volintz and the People's Deputy Stoyan: I beg you simply, support this law, you do not have to bury it today, because you will return with your amendments, not with your amendments, and with your framework laws, you will eventually destroy Law 1049. I appeal to you: let us consider Law 1049 separately, the main feature of which is that we declare a two-year moratorium on privatization. returns to bankruptcy mine. To deal with the structure of the long-term situation, the State will pay those creditors, I am not saying that there will be no calculations, but the money allocated from the budget will be enough to settle with the creditors, but ultimately we will not allow further bankruptcy, artificial bankruptcy of mines. Therefore, I beg you, your bills I agree to support, consider, but in no way can they be confused with Bill 1049. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no, we're done here, we don't need to have a conversation right now. Your consideration, Your Honorary Colleagues, is the following: draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property. The committee’s profile and committee head, Stanislaw Nikolaynko, have been invited to consider the matter for 20 minutes. No objections? None. Please, Mikola Vasilovich Palady, head of the State Department of Intellectual Property. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u45	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion today is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend some Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property. I would say that this is a key bill in the intellectual property protection system in our country and probably in all civilized, developed countries. The basis for this bill is the President's decrees on measures to protect intellectual property in Ukraine, on further measures to accelerate Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, on a programme of measures to complete Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. The decrees stressed the need to harmonize Ukraine’s legislation with the norms and principles of the World Trade Organization. One of the most important agreements is the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, so-called the Trips Agreement. Practically a department has been working on this bill for over a year. We held a few round tables, talked to scientists in our country, from. trustees, with known lawyers. We are very grateful to the National Deputies who worked at the Science Committee in the last vocation, and we have also considered this on this committee. The proposed bill provides for amendments to the Civil, Procedural, Criminal, Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine, as well as to Ukraine's special laws on intellectual property, namely the Copyright and Related Rights Act, the Protection of Rights to Inventory and Useful Models, the Protection of Rights to Industrial Samples, the Protection of Rights to Signs for Goods and Services, the Protection of Rights to Topography of Integral Microschemes, the Protection of Rights to Determining the Origin of Goods. I'm going to say that there's no relation to the Famous Act. The famous Disk Law does not have this bill. The conceptual idea behind the bill is to amend existing intellectual property legislation in order to increase liability for violations of rights and to bring national legislation fully into line with international standards, such as the Trips Agreement. We passed this bill on to experts from the World Intellectual Property Organization. And there is a conclusion that this bill is in line with international norms and rules. Today, in Ukraine, intellectual property violations have become dangerous. The situation of trade in counterfeit products is particularly disturbing. A consumer market filled with counterfeit trademarks of well - known manufacturers, including food products, essentials. The production of counterfeit mineral water, alcohol, tobacco products, marked with forged signs has become widespread. Today, we find it dangerous to produce and sell drugs, pharmacology, medicine, and medical devices to be a factor. Regrettably, current legislation currently does not give the owner intellectual property rights in the extent that it needs a trade agreement because it does not have provisions on ways of civil and legal protection of rights, judicial protection of rights and temporary measures to ensure evidence or a lawsuit in cases of infringement of the rights of owners. It should be noted that the Supreme Council has already introduced similar standards for the protection of rights in the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Plant Rights, which is now in force. Recognizing the usefulness of codifying legislation, we believe that today, taking into account the specificities of intellectual property subject to which rights are violated, the introduction into special laws of law of judicial protection and temporary action regarding the immediate cessation of offences is justified by the only possibility in a short period of time to provide legislative grounds for combating counterfeiting and piracy. The bill also aims to improve the procedure for granting intellectual property rights, clarify certain definitions, exclude ambiguous and subjective interpretation of the types of licences that lead to difficulties in making licensing contracts for various intellectual property objects, and improve the procedure for paying the congregations. The need to introduce such standards into each of the laws is based on law - enforcement practices, closely linked to the existence of different requirements for different intellectual property objects. The bill does not conflict with the provisions of the Constitution, Ukrainian legislation and international intellectual property standards. In view of the above, please adopt this bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? If so, please sign in. Put a list of names on the board. Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u47	Thank you. On Friday, I always have the talent to enroll in the first. Thank you. I have a question for you, Your Honor, Mikolo Vasilovich. I realize that this is not just my problem and everyone, and the leadership, perhaps, of the state. But counterfeit products, especially food, there's vodka, especially medicine, let there be one more law, there's plenty, let there be another. Is this just the basis that we can prevent it, or is it a shift into the Criminal Code? Is there any way we can support the sanitation services to carry out their duties more responsibly? And they're waiting for this law, or is it just something else? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. The situation is in such a way that we foresee not only the adoption of legislation, but today we foresee serious mechanisms for the operation of this law. You know that our judicial authority makes decisions only according to the legislation in force. We recently met with the Institute of Forensics. It was there that we were discussing this question that you were raising. Unfortunately, there are no intellectual property professionals in this institution. And we're said to be able to trace it from scientists, from chemists, or whatever it is, it's fake, it's not fake. But from the point of view of the trademarks, whose drug it is, who trades it on this jar, legitimately or not, we don't have that option. That is why we prepare, without waiting, the adoption of this law. We think the Supreme Council will take him. We're preparing a joint order from the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Education and Science that to a special college in this state institution, the Institute of Judicial Experts. Then when we turn to the state inspector on a similar question as to conformity and legislation, and that formula to that drug, we can follow up on both science and intellectual property. And when there's a procedure, unfortunately, we don't have one yet, it's a very big problem, what to do on customs, when this product we already know is that the drugs are fake, but what to do with them is neither the police, customs, nor the judicial authorities know. So these procedures in this law and in our legislation, we're going to try to settle our orders, because this is really a serious issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! Of course, you're reporting a very fundamental law right now. In such a fundamental great law, a violation can also be allowed. In my opinion, other laws and the Constitution in particular have been violated. In particular, in the law on the protection of industrial rights, you propose to introduce article 26. 3, where in paragraph 3, you write: "Reschedule the premises in which actions involving infringements of the rights of the owner of the patent are taking place", and you are actually predicting a search. Let's call things our names. And a search of the Constitution should be regulated by the Criminal Procedure Code and only in criminal matters. Don't you think that our people -- completely strangled -- with fiscal organs will now be subject to pressure under this law. I'm like a lawyer with a year-old.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u51	Ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u52	I think there's a breach. What do you mean, "get out"?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u53	Thank you. I'm willing to offer you the text of the Trips deal directly. I'm willing to offer you a few similar bills in neighbouring countries where this rule of law is written virtually literally. What we said by holding round tables, according to this legislation, no intellectual property owner, who now owns this property and works in the Ukraine market, had that position in this law. Absolutely legal companies, prominent lawyers in our country, a science committee, which also has serious experience in drafting similar bills, did not look at this article by name. We're talking about what this is. There's no search. I'm here with you. I fully support you. It's meant to be possible, first of all, we think to this point, our state inspector, who's going to start working from 10 November next year to have access to premises where there's a suspicion that we're producing counterfeit products or something. When possible, we never asked any questions about the search. Their actual administrative action in our country is probably more than enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u54	Thank you. National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u55	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mikolo Vasilovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party The project introduces changes that determine temporary measures to provide evidence or a lawsuit in cases of infringement of the intellectual property owner's rights. But the project does not provide for amendments to the copyright law and adjacent rights to grant equivalent bank guarantees to the applicant, which, in my opinion, would result in the applicant not being able to deposit an appropriate mortgage and to protect his rights in violation of copyright or adjacent rights. Would it not be appropriate to make changes to the Copyright and Neighbouring Rights Act regarding the possibility of the claimant of a bank guarantee to deposit a court, as such a possibility would be envisaged for other intellectual property owners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. In the first review of this bill, we had this proposal, but when we talked to our right-holders, the situation is that most of the national owners are not sufficiently secure people, and in some circumstances they just won't be able to file a lawsuit, they won't be able to make the sums you're talking about. So the position was that if we adopt such a rule of law, we cut off the national owner from this procedure. But your question is perfectly logical. Perhaps we could think together to protect the right of the owner. And this standard absolutely has to be, because in neighboring countries, practically, this standard is what you're talking about, but it's either joy. The owners are richer there.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u57	Thank you. National Deputy Sirenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u58	Sirenko, the Communist faction. Dear Mikolo Vasilovich, I have two basic questions for you. First. Do you agree that in Ukraine all forms of intellectual property should acquire legal power only after they have been registered in Ukraine? No form of intellectual property registered outside Ukraine should acquire legal power. That's the first question. The second question. Do you agree that all conflicts related to intellectual property rights should be decided only by a court without bodies dealing with the intellectual property problems of the organization and administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. So the procedure for the protection of rights is international. There are several agreements that Ukraine has joined, there is the Madrid Protocol, the Madrid Treaty, which provides for the registration of the World Intellectual Property Organization and, practically, this intellectual property is protected in the territory of all the countries that are members of this Agreement. Such an international procedure. It's about patents. Every inventor in any country of the world has the opportunity to patent both within its own state and in other states, but it is obliged to go through the national procedure of the state to which it submits its patent. That's the practice today. As far as the court is concerned. In virtually all civilized countries of the world, there is a procedure for judicial protection. Recently, the Ukrainian delegation returned from the UK Patent Court, headed by Vladimir Dmitrovich Pritica. We realized that it didn't take much to form a patent court in Ukraine. In fact, it's 12 judges who work in the UK, so it doesn't take millions of dollars, as they said before, to form this specialized court. And maybe the closest we can come up with is a trial procedure. Practically 90 percent of cases in European countries have been dismissed in court proceedings. About 10 percent is taken to court, and that is quite expensive. I mean, not every national claimant can get to the court. There's work to do with the Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court, and I think in the near future, we're going to propose a solution to the mechanism for the implementation of this issue that you've asked. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u60	Time's up. The report invites the head of the Subcommittee, the Committee on Science and Education, Mikhailo Kuzmić Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u61	Dear National Deputies! Chief! It's about this bill. The Committee on Science and Education considered the project. And the committee's decision, to propose to the members of the Supreme Council, to accept this project in the first reading. But I want to complement what the reporter said. First. This document, this project, is very important, and when we accept it and discuss it, we need to know what the observations are. The comments can be composed in this way. First. Is there such a need for the order of protection of intellectual property rights in court to be included in every law that is proposed? These are nine laws. Some take into account and some others suggest that this court order protects the rights to provide for a civil, civil and procedural, economic and procedural code of Ukraine. Nor is it subject to the regulation of laws to which changes are made. This is the first time. Second remark. The observation relates to the position regarding the payment of the congregations. Since the formation of additional congregations is still a matter of separate taxation, whether it is necessary for each law to take into account such tax matters. or to impose such congregations and fines. And the third position. Perhaps there is a need to take into account the conclusions of the Expert Office. The expert board also believes that, first of all, despite the fact that we need to harmonize our legislation with world legislation, but we probably don't need to reconcile it in a way that is better than what we need. Well, for example, the bill needs separate rules, which not only do not provide for the rules of the Trips agreement, but do not comply with the provisions of the Civil Code and require further work. This is where Deputy Carmazin mentioned some of the same things. The second, particularly the Trips agreement, does not provide for interference in the internal civil legislation of each member state. And in the same thing, as with other remarks, there's a suggestion that there's no point in every law to make separate articles concerning the judicial protection of intellectual rights, which are 9 such laws, and they're the same articles. Well, there are other observations. Well, for example, I want to. One article says: "The power to stop the preparatory action for violating the rights of the patent owner, including the termination of customs procedures, if there is a suspicion, well, I also find that suspicion in court law is probably not such evidence - suspicion. I've got suspicions, too. But what, in this case, do we have to go and search the premises? Or, for example, such an observation, it is. Prior to the completion of the case, the judge has the right, in principle, to grant approval of the defendant, who has sufficient grounds to consider him to be an infringement of the patent holder’s rights. Perhaps all of this is true if the law is fundamental in the State. What if the judge misuses his position? He makes his own search decisions or other procedures. I mean, I think the decision of the committee -- I said to support it in the first reading, but for the second reading, this bill needs a lot of attention from the members of the Supreme Council so that we can still adopt the bill, not in the interests of any other country, but in the interests of the State, in the interests of Ukraine, that is to say that it is in the interests of our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u62	Is there a question for Michael Kuzmich? If there is, please sign in. If not, we will thank you. On the board, please. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mikhail Kuzmić, please tell us to what extent did you refer to the conclusions of, say, the legal committee on legal policy or the comments made by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine? Because it says here that the Ministry of Justice has made observations, but these observations were not given to us, MPs. And I'd like to see what we're paying our Justice Department for: so I can sit here and do my own expertise, well, totally raw legal papers? Do we have a whole bunch of experts who get paid for it? I'd like to hear your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u64	Yuri Anatoliyovich, you're asking a very good proposition or a question. We probably have all the laws going as well as this one. No such specific comments, it says, were taken into account, but there are no observations. So the most well-founded observation is the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and they gave it. But there are observations and MPs, and there are valid comments about what you say you said you said in the first place, too, under this law. So I answer as you already know how this procedure is to other such laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u65	National Deputy Lissin, Communist faction. And Eshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u66	I thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, Yeshchenka. Mikhail Kuzmich, you've made a very good report on what the observations are under this law, because when we were considering the "Discrete" law in our Industrial Policy Committee, there was pressure, and there were observations, but they weren't all taken into account. Therefore, when considering the second reading, you may be asked to consider all the comments because it is a very important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u67	What I'm trying to say is that I specifically emphasized the shortcomings of this law. Because the reporter, who was Mikola Vasilovich, said it was very beautiful in this law. It seems to me that it will suit the interests of Ukraine if all deputies, especially those who have the right and legal education, are to be treated very carefully to this law. So he may already have this law in that box in many, but he needs to be found and read very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u68	Thank you, Mikhail Kuzmich. Dear colleagues, only one member of the jury, George Carmazin, and John Fedorovich Kuras, were enrolled for the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u69	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! In fact, the bill that we're proposing is very serious, very large, it's largely healthy. But I'm paying attention to the government. You're introducing it, and I think you're making more progress in implementing Presidential decrees on intellectual property protection, although it's not supposed to be regulated by Presidential decrees, it's Decree No. 285 of 2001 and then on additional measures to accelerate Ukraine's entry into the world trading organisation. And that's why this bill is just a handful of those many deals, and I can't get east of which bill it's, let's say, not intellectually rewritten, but it's not subject to Ukrainian legislation, it's not consistent with Ukrainian legislation, it's not in the interests of Ukrainian citizens. What's more, Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, reporting here, working on the Committee on Science and Education, must have realized that somewhere this committee was not there and something might happen here, and he said it was from the rostrum. That's how I address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I firmly claim that this is the area of action of the Committee on Legal Policy. The work of the Committee on Legal Policy is very serious. And this is where Vasil Fedorovich Sirenko noted that this should be registered in Ukraine, but he meant that money should go to Ukraine. But, Vasil Fedorovich, if you read this bill, you'd see that this is a colossal change, actually new chapters in the CDC are planned, in fact new chapters in the Criminal Procedure Code are planned and planned to actually strangle everyone and everything in the deal, so to speak. I'm responsibly saying, here's what I'm showing you, if you deny it, you sneeze, at least. In the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Industrial Samples, you propose to write Article 26. 2 Civil and legal protection of rights. Is this the law that regulates it? Is this the subject of regulation of this law? You're putting in article 21 of the Forced Deprivation of Rights, which we don't have in the Constitution. You write, "in terms of military and state of emergency, the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to allow the use of an industrial model to a designated person without the consent of the patent owner in the event of his refusal." Please tell me if you sign such agreements right now, and the war is going on long ago, from the beginning of the bombing of Yugoslavia, it's considered a war on their treaty. We're not considered a war. Where are we going? That's why I think it's fundamental here when it comes to the development of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u71	Now. I'm the one who wrote it down, so I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u72	No, not one. There is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u73	There is. Oh, thank God. I would like this bill, of course, to be designed to protect the interests of Ukraine, the Ukrainians, and to join the WTO, anywhere else we will always be able to go, and not to foresee violations of the Constitution and violations of the laws in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u74	Thank you. Ivan Fedorovich Kuras. I'll read it. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property. [[the number of the so-called]] There are no suggestions or comments before the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u75	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Masterful colleagues! I will not repeat what has been said in terms of the rationale for the relevance of this bill. It's really important, it's such a bill that affects the interests of our scientific creative intelligence and, what's very important, in my opinion, that this bill is based on a ten-year legislative experience and the implementation of the relevant laws that have been drawn up in our country during this time. And this time, of course, has revealed both positives and negatives in this practice and I think it's very timely to put this issue up and bring it up for consideration by our Parliament. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm going to allow myself this definition of a date that if this bill touches a whole series of codes, namely the Procedural, Criminal Procedural and 6 special laws that touch this sphere, it's a kind of minicodex that touches this very important intellectual sphere of the life of our state. I would totally like to support the changes that are being proposed to these codes and to these laws, this is the first time. I could base them and prove them based on the analysis of experts, that, say, the proposed changes to the Criminal Code of Ukraine are justified and they touch on increasing responsibility for violations of copyright and adjacent rights and violations of industrial property rights in accordance with article 61 of the Trips Agreement. In particular, there is an increase in the threshold of a fine for the illegal use of inventions, a useful model, an industrial model, a topography of an integrated microscheme, a variety of plants, if these actions have caused material damage in large scale and for the same actions if they have been repeated or have caused material damage in a particularly large way. In addition, the bill provides for more responsibility for the illegal use of the trade mark, services and so on. I'd like to say, because time is running out, that we have a whole bunch of offers here, too. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading, to continue this work. I want to promise you that we are dealing with these issues with the experts of our National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine necessarily and that there are, in part, such proposals, and they can be fully taken into account in the re-examination of this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u76	Thank you, Ivan Fedorovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. As for the decision, we will be determined by the vote. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Special Measures for Imports in Ukraine. Reporter: Minister of Economics and European Integration Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak The committee suggests that the bill be considered within 20 minutes. Please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers is proposing for your consideration a draft law that will allow more effective protection of Ukraine's internal market. You are well aware that since 1999, when Ukraine has become an increasingly serious subject of external trade and when Ukraine’s internal market has become increasingly attractive to imports, trade restrictions that apply both to Ukrainian goods and to Ukraine against the goods that come to us. Today, more than 50 such restrictive measures have been applied to Ukrainian goods by our trading partners. We have 36 restrictions that we have imposed over the last three years. As you also know, there are three main types of trade restrictions: anti-dumping restrictions when it comes to dumping policies; compensatory measures when it comes to subsidizing their producers. In recent times, however, special investigations have been made in connection with the mass imports of Ukrainian products into other countries, or the massive imports into Ukraine of certain goods. How are they protected in the world against mass imports? They are protected by two methods in accordance with the GAAT SOTA rules, either by setting an appropriate import quota, or by special duty, or by combining these two options. Let me give you a few examples. 29 special investigations have been conducted against us, 29 special investigations in recent years. From 5 to 40 percent is a special duty imposed against Ukrainian goods. For example, the United States uses special duties ranging from 8 to 30 percent against 17 product groups of Ukrainian metal products. The European Union introduced a special tariff of between 17 and 26 percent for 19 commodity positions of metal. We have the same problems with countries in Central and Eastern Europe. Our main trading partner, Russia, has conducted 11 special investigations against Ukraine, all of which were completed not by quota, but by setting special duties, I want to emphasize this, from 5 to 30 percent. How do we protect ourselves? At present, the principles and procedures for violating and conducting special investigations into the increase in imports into Ukraine, which would cause significant damage to or threaten to cause significant harm to the national producer, are regulated by the Ukrainian law on special measures for imports of Ukraine. Also, according to article 16 of this law, the only way that Ukraine can use to defend its market in special investigations is to quota this product. The bill that we are proposing allows Ukraine not only to apply import quotas, but also to apply special duties where necessary or to use a combination of these options. I would like to emphasize once again that the civilised means of protection used by all other states, in accordance with the GAAT WTO rules, such measures as we believe to protect our internal market should be applied by us. Convinced that the adoption of such a bill will allow us to be much more effective in protecting our internal market. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, please sign in. Puzakov National Deputy, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u79	Dear Alexander Vitalievich! You must know Alexandrian, Kirovograd region, Kombain-lan. Although, I have to say, Hersonian combines are not bad. But that's not the point. Please tell me why the Government of Ukraine, when it comes to these enterprises, is mainly before the presidential elections, or before the parliamentary elections, and is always promising labour groups that the combined best of ours and the prospects for domestic agricultural machinery are very large. Please tell me, why isn't our procreation really working at the right level? These are both jobs and wages, and the prospects of even the nations. And we have a green road for imported agricultural vehicles. Your bill is, of course, normal and needs to be supported, but these issues are not yet understood by the labour community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u80	Thank you. Well, you're saying yourself that the question that you've asked is much broader than the bill that I'm reporting. I would like to say that what we can now introduce special duties is one of the tools for protecting the internal market. At a time when our respectable two combine factories will be able to produce enough production for our manufacturers, we could use a special moment to protect our internal market, in any case the amount that today constitutes a competitive preference for combines, let's say, the Russian Federation. Here, I think, is a civilized way of protecting the internal market. So I can't talk right now about all the combining, it's a much broader topic, we can talk about this separately, but this law, I say again, allows when our market is ready, to solve the problem that you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u81	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u82	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Vitalievich, perhaps it would be better to review the free economic zones at all. Today, statistics show that six billion losses come from free economic zones alone. The goods are coming through the zone, and I want to say that we socialists didn't vote in any area. Would it not be better to review the very method of creating free economic zones and install the very procedure of special and monitoring and special legislation into these free economic zones? Six billion for Ukraine every year, which is used only by oligarchs and those close to it, is probably a lot. And that would be a better solution. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u83	I had to talk a few times from this rostrum about the situation today in the areas of priority development and in the free economic zones. And once again, I want to say that we have the same ambiguous attitude towards the processes that are going on there right now. But this is what the students say: flies separately and chops separately. I want you to understand the proposal I'm about to make. Free economic zones, as well as areas of priority development, are protected by legislation from import duties. Whichever of us now accept the import duty limit: we would now have set a 100-input duty on the free economic zone or the TPR, the product would still fall without tax. Instead, special duties cannot be avoided by free economic zones or by the TPR. That's why we're offering one of the, once again, not us made up, but the world's trade in tools that will allow us, including in the case of violations in these areas, to use this kind of protective tool. So I'd like to ask him to support me. And as for the conversation about the zones as a whole, I invite once again to the discussion with us, to the Ministry, to all the materials that we have, to the analysis of each area. This work is carried out on a regular basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u84	Paul Matvienko, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u85	National MP Matvienko, 66th Corestinsk constituency. Honourable Alexander Vitaliyovich, since the bill proposes to introduce changes and editorialities into the law, do you not consider it necessary to change the name of the public authority entrusted with the task of conducting a special investigation in accordance with the latest changes in the system of public authorities? I mean, don't you think it's necessary to change the name "Ministry of Economics" to "Ministry of Economics for European Integration" in this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u86	Thank you. We have now passed a separate bill, which lists all the bills that refer to our ministry, where we ask you to fix the situation: either name the new name of the ministry, or, most likely, throw out the name at all, and call it the "Special Authorized Authority of the Central Executive." That's why this bill exists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u87	We looked at it yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u88	Yes, we looked at it yesterday. That's why we didn't put it here in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u89	Ivan Kirilenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like a word with my colleague, Mikola Haritonovich Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u91	National MP Shershun, please. Please take the microphone. On your own, on your own. Well, take the seat of Ivan Grigorovich, please. Kirilenka's place of work, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u92	Mikola Shershun, electoral district 157. The only matchmaker in Ukraine in the city of Breznom in the Plain today is practically ready to provide 100 percent of the demand for matches. Today, however, the Ukrainian market is virtually flooded with Belarusian and Russian matches. We've been asking this question for several years now to protect our matchmaking. So I have this question, will the mechanism you're proposing spread to protect our domestic production, matchmaking? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u93	Thank you. Of course, the tool we offer will be used to protect any product produced in Ukraine. I may be holding your attention for just one minute to try to explain, for example, what kind of tool we have today and why it doesn't suit us. We have recently begun a special investigation into cement coming into Ukraine, mainly from Russian territory. In 2001, the amount of cement coming from Russia increased by 16 times. You know, at the cost of cement, 60 percent of it's worth of gas. Our cement companies are unable to compete with Russian companies today. And that's absolutely true. Thus, in the near future, we face the threat of closing down all these factories, freeing up jobs, and so forth. What can we do today? Set the quota. We set it up, 50 grand. Today, this quota is in operation, and so Ukraine still faces much more competitive and cheaper cement, which is followed by a war between Ukrainian construction companies. When we set up a special fee, we'll just set it at such a level that the value of the Russian cement that will enter on the terms of these in Ukraine corresponds to the value of the Ukrainian cement. It's going to be a perfectly normal competitive environment. If we set up a special bribe for Belarusian and Russian matches, 10 or 20 percent, respectively, to get them on one competitive line, let them continue to compete with each other, which product is better, they will buy it. There is no such tool today. Let's adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u94	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u95	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Jovski district, Lvivščina Dear Mr. Minister! A beautiful and noble goal is to protect the internal market. Don't you think we're doing this in white gloves with a bant in our pocket? There are realities. There are two customs officers in my district. Do you know the government, and will you protect this law from such things when they're smuggled, say, smuggling huge refractories of chicken legs at night, moving into a bird factory, I'm in the district, copying overheads like they're released at this factory and moving on? The fat from Poland is being imported today, and our poor peasant today cannot sell his own hall because it is much cheaper than the fat that is being smuggled from Poland. What can we do? Is this law able to stop these terrible smuggling flows that are going to Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u96	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I think you know the answer to that question. Smuggling is not a law that will fight, and that is understandable. That's not what this law is about. This law will fight against official imports, and we have no less problems with it than smuggling. We need to take other measures with smuggling, let's work on them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u97	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. From the committee, the head of the Economic Policy Subcommittee, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Skomarowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The law to which amendments are proposed is one of the ingredients of the so - called Antidemping Code adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the end of 1998. That's where they're coming in. First. National Manufacturer Protection Act against Dumping Imports, National Product Protection Act against Subsidy Imports. And this Law, to which we are now considering changes, is to apply special measures on imports into Ukraine. At that time, three more laws were adopted simultaneously: the amendment of a number of Ukrainian laws aimed at accelerating the adaptation of anti-dumping legislation to the legal field of Ukraine. Since there was no such special legislation in our Ukraine. Anti-dumping legislation, called for speeding up Ukraine's integration into the European world community, simplifying negotiation processes and protecting the domestic producer in the internal market. The Committee has carefully considered the addition to the law on the application of special measures for imports into Ukraine and believes that the proposed changes will contribute to improving the process of protecting the domestic producer and the trade interests of Ukraine in general. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis for further elaboration. In our view, minor changes improve the bill and will contribute to the official protection of our manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u99	Is there a question for our colleague? Please sign in. Light up on the board. Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u100	Thank you. Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Volodymyr Volodymyrovich! The question is not directly related to the content of the proposed law, but it is closely related to it. It is aimed at increasing competition with goods legally imported into Ukraine. Here Vladimir Yavorowski asked about smuggling. To that end, we have a customs service, and recently we have added a large number of units for foreign troops. We still have an MBI and so on. In other words, if I had brought all the shields that are in the OMON, in the border guards, in the customs service to each other across the perimeter of the border of Ukraine, there would not only be smuggling, there would not be a mouse leap. How could we solve this problem? Of course, smuggling is the worst problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. I completely agree with you. We recently arrived from an exit meeting that was being held by a committee in a special economic zone called the Maporows, where there are two customs officers, just outside our well-known national deputy, Yavorowski. And he took an active part. So what do managers, heads of district administrations say? They're asking me to stop this smuggling, as you say, by putting one national MP on duty. I'm saying you can do that, but you know how long that national MP lives. So our border looks like a fishing net with big windows, but there's only a little fish in it because they have a plan. They've got to do the plan, they've got the little fish, and the big refrigerants are coming here. If we bring in a special bribe and the border stays with that net, we'll just increase the smuggling rate. So we still have to make sure that customs and foreign troops perform their functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u103	Sergei Osika, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleague, I have a request for you. Once again, please tell me that it's not about smuggling or smuggling, it's a separate criminal offence, and everyone here agrees that we need to strengthen borders, we need to strengthen border guards, customs, and so on. And this is one of the measures or tools that effectively protect our domestic market in cases of so-called mass imports. Now he's talking about, like, other questions. This is being applied against us and we need to make an amendment so that we can introduce not only a quota for protection against mass imports but also other special measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u105	Thank you for asking. I want to explain it again because the honourable minister explained it. This is officially a special bribe, quickly. Not the Supreme Council, where months go by, but the Cabinet of Ministers. This can be introduced the day after any manufacturer's request. That's why we're two hands behind this bill. And smuggling is separate, it's just an increase in the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u106	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u107	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Volodymyr! It's very simple for me to think that my long-standing colleague, although we're out there ideologically, is still so romantic and thinks that we can protect Ukraine by putting all the troops in her hair. Dear, my dear, dear Drogantz, think about feeding them all and giving them all bribes. Ukraine just can't handle it, so, I think they're less likely to stand, so it's better. The question is specific. Volodymyr, you've been to my district, where there's a free economic zone. We were with you and at the customs office in Cracow and asked the customs officer the following question: Why did 12 people claim to serve in the election? Why is there 45 in the customs office today? They couldn't answer us. Maybe you know why?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u108	You've almost answered. Thank you for asking. Customs don't want to go to the National Police because they know their jobs and they know what they're working for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u109	Thank you. Time's up. Let us move on to the presentations in the discussion. Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski, faction of Julia Timoshenko Is it? None. Yuri Carmazin, please. Maybe if you don't walk long, it'll be faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u110	"Our Ukraine," Solidarity, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank our intellectual minister, Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak, for his appearance. He sees the question correctly, he just wants to wish for it, he needs to put it a little bit sharper and a little bit wider. Let's call things our names. Ukraine is facing an economic war, a massive economic war. It's run by, absolutely, everyone, run by the Russian Federation, run by the United States, run by the countries of the European Union. Let's call these things our names. And unfortunately, today, Mr. Minister, you can't always protect Ukraine, because your shoulders are narrow, it has to be protected at the President's level, at the Prime Minister's level, and understanding that you have this huge hall behind you, the Supreme Council, you have another 50 million people behind you. That is why this law must be adopted with certainty. But this will be too little, you have to take in the first reading and think about what is important to add. Because there's a wide flow of building materials in Ukraine, and not just legally, which sector you're talking about right now, but not legally. The furniture is going in an orderly fashion, and we've put all the furniture in Ukraine: TVs, tape recorders, radio receivers. Everything's going, like, separately, the whole clans are holding all these branches, and today we've destroyed these factories, they're destroyed standing on trash cans, they're going to other countries. There was a question about matches. The same with the making of shoes, clothing. But in fact, the issue is very and very much related to the issue of combating corruption, the issues of the borders that have been discussed, customs and smuggling. And here's the question: our borders are not yet protected, they said right at night, from five o'clock a.m. to five o'clock in the morning. At one time in the Soviet Union, foreign troops were united in the Union’s KGB system. We may have to go to join the Security Service with the foreign forces. That's why I'm telling my fellow MPs to think about it first. And secondly, I think that this law needs to be adopted in the first reading, but it is appropriate for all countries to respond adequately to the measures that are being taken against Ukraine and to review the huge ones, with a view to avoiding the huge losses of the billions that they are causing through the free economic zone, our policies in this area. By the way, to let you know that the money is dirty, the MPs who opposed the economic justification for the relevance of these zones.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u111	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u112	They were persecuted on TV, and especially me, George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u113	Thank you. People's MP Gurov, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! Vadim Gurov, Krivbass, People's Landing. The draft law is designed to supplement special measures for imports into Ukraine of the goods that cause them, or there is a risk of significant harm to national producers, the possibility of setting a special duty on such goods. In accordance with article 16 of the Act, if the volume of imports into Ukraine increased in such terms and in such terms or under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause significant harm to national producers of the like product, the State-authorized authority, which will be the Ministry of Economics, may decide to apply such special measures to such imports. Limiting the period of import or introduction of a quota mode for imports into Ukraine. If the bill is adopted, Ukraine will be able to apply to imports of goods that are likely to cause or threaten to cause significant harm to national producers of similar products, such as special measures as special duties. The application of a special duty would stop the further increase in imports into Ukraine of the product concerned and prevent the financial and economic deterioration of Ukrainian producers. It should also be noted that the amendments proposed by the bill do not conflict with the requirements of the agreement on measures that form part of the GAAT General Agreement and trade within the framework of the WTO World Trade Organization. The Protection and Action Agreement is a special agreement within the framework of the WTO, which determines how WTO member states apply protective measures in relation to imported goods. Since Ukraine intends to acquire full membership in the WTO in the near future, the compliance of national legislation with the GAAT requirements is a necessary step toward doing so. So the People's Government faction recommends the adoption of this very relevant law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u115	Thank you. Sergey Osika, will you be performing? From where? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u116	Now our position has been sounded. I'd just like to add a few words. First. In the past call, which was the fall of 1998, was adopted by one of the best countries in the SND of the Antidemping Codex. And it was said that it consists of three parts, one of the most important or important, is protection against mass imports. Clearly, the State border and the customs border cannot work without the reinforcement of the State service and the State border. Here we need to adopt and strengthen the law on border guards. I take your attention once again, dear colleagues. This is an amendment to allow us to have operational protection against all the things you have rightly said today. This is a rapid response to massive imports aimed at protecting the market. That is why this law needs to be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The decision will be decided on the day of the vote. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Collective Agricultural Enterprise on Property Management. A professional committee proposes that this issue be considered for 15 minutes. So 5 minutes for the report, for the answer, for the co-rapporteur, and 5 minutes for the co-rapporteur to not even discuss it. Is there no objection? Please give the floor to the Minister of Agriculture Sergey Mikolayovich Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. With a view to regulating the conditions and procedures for the realization of the rights of peasants to manage property in the process of reforming the agricultural sector of the economy and granting the latter the right to transfer housing assets, including unfinished construction, to municipal property, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy has prepared a draft Act amending the Law on Collective Business in Ukraine. The issue of the implementation of the rights of peasants with regard to the management of property in the case of the cessation of membership in collective enterprises is regulated by the Ukrainian Law on Collective Farming, which provides for the right to obtain property by means of property, money and securities. In accordance with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Urgent Measures to Accelerate the Reform of the Agrarian Sector of the Economy, collective agricultural enterprises have been reorganized into new legal formations based on private ownership and property. Paragraph 6 of Article 31 of the above-mentioned Collective Agriculture Act establishes that all rights and obligations, including the allocation of rations to former members of collective agricultural enterprises, have been transferred to reformed collective enterprises. Taking into account that the equity fund includes both high-end and insolvent assets, the relationship between such types of assets and the composition of the equity fund, which makes up the main assets of unfinished construction, undetermined equipment, negotiable funds, and financial assets. The successors of reorganized collective enterprises are obliged to ensure the equality of rights of all former members of these enterprises in the nature of their own rations. At the same time, when a person who has the right to a piece of property is brought before a court with a lawsuit against an entrant for the issue of a piece of property by money, the court, according to the rules of the Act on Collective Entrepreneurship, usually decides in favour of the defendant, i.e. when issuing the pie with money. In doing so, the credit fund is primarily cleared of property that violates rights and other co-owners, such as the stock of the equity fund remains low and, of course, the company loses its core negotiable funds, costs. And so it works worse without any means of active activity. Therefore, it is necessary to establish the order and form of the issuance by the successors of reorganised enterprises, property rations to the former members of these enterprises, assuming that the company’s successor, to whom the rights and responsibilities of the reorganized enterprise, in particular by means of the rations, have been transferred, is issuing the rations to the members of this enterprise with the property that was attributed to the equity fund at the time of its restructuring. Because this is the responsibility of certain managers for the preservation of this property and the calculation of the property acquired during the collective work. In addition, a housing fund is also a problem in the process of reforming collective agriculture. A large portion of the rural housing fund is built at the expense of, as we all know, the own costs of the companies themselves, and they've maintained themselves and are now very much on their balance sheet. After the restructuring of collective enterprises, these dwellings were transferred to the balance sheet of law firms and were not subject to cobwebs in accordance with current legislation. However, individual reformed enterprises have generally decided on the issue of privatizing the listed fund to the inhabitants of the village, who in their own time have been granted this housing on the condition of their disintegration or redemption, which often causes social tension in rural areas, puts rural residents in unequal conditions compared to urban ones, and which privatize the state housing fund under the law. Dear National Deputies! The adoption of this law will allow, without a doubt, the relationship between the companies of offenders and former members of organized collective enterprises in the issue of the issue of property -- I underline -- of pies, including in the court's rulings of disputes over these issues. The bill is supported by the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and we ask that you respectfully support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please put a name list on the board. Wow! 23. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kirilenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich! Of course, the law that you're presenting in this room right now has to be adopted, there's no doubt about it. There's a wish. We understand each other well. Sergey Mikolaiovich, 2 years ago, adopted the Earth Codex in this room. He is not working today, for his development requires the adoption of some 30 more legislative acts. And what you're presenting right now, although it relates to the property and settlement of the colossal issues that arise today in the courts, on issue, we ask the Institute of Agrarian Economics, with the Institute of Land Management, with all scientists, please, with our agrarian committee, with the deputy corps, we need to do everything we can today to speed up the submission to the hall of legislative acts that will reveal the potential of the Earth Code and other work that is today in the Ministry and in the agrarian science institutions. We need, you feel that today there's braking in the agriculture of processes, braking at the expense of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u121	Ivan Grigorovich, this is a performance, this is not a question. Please, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u122	Please activate the work of Sergio Mikolaiovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u123	Thank you. Because this law was previously given.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u124	It's not an answer, it's not a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u125	We're presenting it now, and 12 drafts have already been prepared. They're ready for submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u126	The miner, please, the next one is Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u127	Dear reporter. The miner, the valley constituency, the faction of our Ukraine. The law is certainly necessary, but it applies to wrongdoers. And I'm more likely to have a conflict in the district where former formations are formally left behind, half-heads, half-declared accountants, and no rations are able to obtain any of their property rights from a new enterprise that has no formal obligation to them. So there's a gap, there's a kind of bankruptcy of structures that you can't take from any of the pies, and a high-quality technique, cattle, and that kind of thing takes away a new structure that doesn't want to give back to the former and present food. So how do you see a way out of such a colossal?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u128	The owners of more than 350 farms, we've created commissions and we're working separately today, but we need a clear method of working with these farms, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. And it's this bill that provides for the Cabinet of Ministers to be allowed, by the established method, to deal with these issues that you're asking, fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u129	Nightglass by Mikola Petrovich, next by Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u130	160 constituency, Hard Ukraine faction. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, I'm sure you won't deny that collective agricultural enterprises are mostly now left with seals and debts. It's for the entrance. The second question. When we look at the poverty eradication program, we rely heavily on land and property rations in income structures. But my attempt to separate property from land was not successful, nor did anyone tell me how many there are. So I'm asking you a question right now. Please tell us, how many stores do we have today, how many contracts are made, and what kind of income is expected from our own rations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u131	They're 6 million 200. Today, we are alleviating that just now, the people's deputy Kirilenko was saying that according to the Earth Code, there are a number of bills to settle land relations, and that's what we're talking about pies. And this year, the villagers received over 2 million tons of grain and over 1 billion dollars of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u132	Kirilczuk Eugene Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u133	Thank you. Yulia Tymoshenko, Fatherland Party, Kirilchuk. Dear Mr. Minister! Indeed, such a law should be enacted, but according to what is stated there, it has a very narrow framework. Today, the need for expansion is mandatory. We will support in the first reading, but serious work is needed. First. We were late because this law had to be passed much earlier. My colleague's predecessor asked you a question -- what's the amount of money in Ukraine today that needs to be given to the villagers -- convinced that this money is going to rain like snow every day. There's almost nothing left. First. The law will have no right to reverse force. That's the worst thing they do is we have private rental companies that want to do what they do as law-abiding people. You will not influence them by this law either. So tell me, what is the immediate framework for extending this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u134	Thank you. It's really a shame that I'm too late to present this bill right now, but it's the norm for these changes to the law, and it says that the property pies that are to be issued by nature owners, money, securities, are to be valued at the date of restructuring of this enterprise. Not today, but on the date that there were both liquids and foundations. Thus, if the manager of a private enterprise, if you'll excuse me, dispose of this property, he'll be responsible and he'll get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u135	Time's up, please sit down. She reports to the head of the subcommittee, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Shevchenko Alexander Alexanderovich. Please! Tomic will report, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u136	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, the purpose of the bill, the settlement of the conditions for the implementation of the rights of peasants with regard to the management of property, the reform of the agricultural sector of the economy, and the granting of the latter the right to transfer assets to the housing fund. Including the unfinished construction of utilities. This bill specifies exactly the legal and regulatory framework for rural property relations. First of all, in terms of the property rations, because as a result of the reform, as a result of obtaining rations in kind, property, there are not equal conditions when more liquid assets are realized first, but less liquid goods remain, which is the question of the national MPs. Therefore, the bill is aimed at resolving the issue, including clarifying the value of the rations stock of members of collective agricultural enterprises, by means of a methodology approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The second question. That's what the village housing fund is all about. Built at the expense of agricultural enterprises, they're kept on balance. After the restructuring of collective agricultural enterprises, according to current legislation, it is not subject to cobwebs. Yet individual enterprises are privatized. In this regard, the bill just amended the matter. Housing projects, including unfinished construction, that were transferred to the rightful balance during the reorganization, can be transferred to municipal property in an orderly manner. The bill takes into account the observations made by a number of ministries, such as finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the State Tax Administration, public organizations such as the Universal Union of Agricultural Enterprises. The bill was discussed on an agrarian policy committee, and the decision was taken unanimously. So, honourable people's deputies, I'm asking this bill to support it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the questions. Light up, please. Kirilczuk Evgen Ivanovich, next Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u138	Thank you. Yulia Tymoshenko, Fatherland Party, Kirilchuk. I have a sequel to the question I asked the minister. A private rental company has made a deal with the villagers for 10 years that they have no right to break the contract, that is, the manager of this private enterprise that wants to do so. He took a huge amount of this property, sold the tractors during this time, destroyed the livestock, now half of it can't be seen, gathered grain wherever he wants, sold and exported. People are screaming. Tell me, does this law allow them to be brought into order?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Kirilchuk, for asking. It is, indeed, very painful, and here Mr. Mining and other national deputies raised this question. The bill clarifies in two directions today the legal basis for the owners of rations and for rural construction, including unfinished construction. He does not provide all the answers that today have to do with the protection of the owners of the rations. Therefore, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, taking into account this situation, along with the Institute for Agricultural Economics, is developing other scientific institutions and will soon introduce a bill to address a number of issues that are currently related to property relations. This applies to the protection of property owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u140	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Next up is Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u141	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts of Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear Mr. John, everything is clear with the pies of the land. We've given people paper, they've collectively handed it back to the same, usually the same head of the kolgos, they give people 3 to 4 hectares of land a half-hole of oats and half a litre of oil, usually that's the maximum. So it's clear with the pies. Now we're going to want to put together a system of property pies. I think we're going to have a great time too. I have a question for you. I used to come to Odessa with a boy, and I really wanted to have a drink of this "selter" water called. They were sold by such an old Jew. And he said, "Do you have syrup or no syrup?" I said, "No," because there wasn't enough money. And he said, "Do you have no apple or cherry?" So I have a question for you. Are we going to let a peasant go free without a piece of land or without a piece of property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u142	Thank you, Mr. Yavorowski. I am clearly concerned about the matter with regard to property and the earth. As far as the earth is concerned, such a bill is one that largely settles many issues. If we support it in the first reading and work properly for the second, we're going to have a lot of legal mechanisms, more specifically, landowners for protection. And according to the Earth Code, a number of bills are to be passed. And the main one will be the protection of a peasant landowner when he has the full right to manage, buy, sell when these mechanisms are like hosts. Today he is not a normal host, because he is the owner, he has a government act that he has made, but he cannot perform his functions fully today as the owner's property. The situation is much more complex when it comes to possessions. And it's the first step is to clarify today's Law on Collective Agricultural Enterprises, and then it's completely clear what the bill I was talking about. I understand that much of this is lost in this process. But today we need to act in the particular situation in which we find ourselves, and to straighten out, to improve the situation regarding the protection of property rations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u143	Catherine Semenovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u144	I thank Vladimir Alexiyovich for giving me his word. I have a question, it and Sergio Mikolaiovich refer to which I deeply respect, and you are a respected colleague. Question two: Is it not too late for us to consider the second question, the reality of execution? And should we not today qualify as a crime the fact that we are so late in the matter of property? It's spread out, it's in the mortgage, it's sold, there's courts everywhere, people coming to us with tears. There's nothing to give to people anymore, because the bandits are better off getting guns in their hands. I believe that we need those who have allowed the dispersal of property to deliberately rob our people openly, to really attract criminal responsibility today. What's more, I want to tell you. I have public receptions in every district in Hersonian. Thus we have come to the point that by lying to people, people form a gift, because they do not know what to do with this priceless pie. And so they're taking away the last thing that's left. I want to know your opinion. And I would like to ask you, Gennady Andriyovich, that together we should initiate parliamentary hearings, where, not because of the sieve of people, but because of the fact that the one person invited both a member of the collective farm and a farmer, and let them give an assessment to those who have carried out such a reform, have virtually destroyed both the village and our people living in the village. Answer the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u145	I thank you again for asking. It also concerns me, worries me, and many, and it is a very painful question. But first of all, I fully share the point of view that we should act in all directions in accordance with actual legislation. If legislation does not meet the standards, it must be regulated. And the position on this committee is that these issues need to be settled by a separate bill. It's too late, but after the election, there wasn't much time for us to get those bills that are most painful to submit as soon as possible. As for the investigation of all the issues that are, these are individual cases, and appeals, both to the committee and to many public organizations, come from our citizens in terms of property relations. I share that we need to listen to how these processes are shared. But once again, we must act in accordance with existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u146	Okay. Thank you. Sit down, Ivan Fedorovich. Let's protocolly give the Agrarian Policy Committee a commission to study the issue of agrarian policy hearings and make our own proposals, Ivan Fedorovich. Dear National Deputies! We're taking time with you. It's break time. But there were two deputies on the subject. It is suggested that we give our word and conclude our consideration of the matter. There's no objection. Please, Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u147	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues! Before I started my speech, I asked a fellow minister: How many collective farms are there today? 630. This is the number of people who can be spoken for. This document is accepted. Will it work? If the term of invitation, according to the Civil Code between natural persons, is 1 year, according to the Code of Conduct, the term of reference between legal persons is 1 year. If we're talking about the date of the reorganization, first we need to make changes to the Civil Code and the Code of Masters, because the first one started in 1992. Since the first decrees to suspend articles of the Codex earth were issued. These are the decrees of 1992-1993. After 1994, after the President’s decree on land reform and certification had been issued, there was a complete vacchanalia. [[Number 666]] In 1995, the first came private-rent enterprises that now own one person, take all the property of the citizens, own only the manager who created the business. I mean, the one who's the founder. For the rest of the citizens, it's just rent and it's like garbage, and it's like some kind of corresponding tax, not the real amount that it's supposed to be. After 1995, a law on agricultural cooperation was passed. He was more or less regulating legal relations, but without a change in the Civil Code and the Master Code, he would not allow this law to work. In addition, we need to consider another interesting detail. Since January 1, 2000, there has been a new law on accounting, financial reporting in Ukraine, adopted on January 16, 2000. 99 C.E. This means that we need the first article that he proposes. More loyally, article 9 and paragraph 1, which proposes that the Ministry, more faithfully the Cabinet of Ministers, clarify in accordance with the Accounting Act. In addition, we also need to consider the observation of the science-expert department, which speaks of the inaccuracies in expressions relating to the integration of the property pie with the land certificate. In addition, a portion of the securities should be identified. This is going to be in the list of total securities, or it's going to be like an internal corresponding document of a collective enterprise. I believe that this bill should be adopted in the first reading. On the second reading, to make complete changes to the Civil Code, to the Code of Masters in order to determine the length of the limitation period and, accordingly, the method of approval in Parliament to carry out a clearly written legislative document rather than to do so, as provided by the Cabinet of Ministers. So the bill on accounting, the laws on collective accounting, was passed here in Parliament. We need to work out clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u148	Thank you. Mikola Odinenik, faction of our Ukraine, please. Dear colleagues, since the Secretary of State is still on the phone, talking to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we'll hear the information at 12:45 in the morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u149	Odajnik, Our Ukraine, Solidarity Group, Vinnitsk district. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard some very serious additions, and very much to a serious law, it's a law about the disintegration of the former KSPs. One who has once experienced the destruction of the earth and the land and property complex can confirm that the greater damage to the agricultural complex has simply not been possible. And that's why. The point is, if there is any other way to deal with the land, it is virtually impossible to deal with the possessions of the ponds. In Ukraine, there are billions of properties. So try to divide these billions into those groups of people that claim to be part of this property complex. It's practically impossible to do that. Why? So imagine, in these billions, about 60 to 90 percent of these buildings are made up. What do we see along the roads that we see? We're driving across Ukraine, we're seeing destroyed farms now, destroyed everything. Why? Because nobody needs the building. Newly created enterprises, as they say it's, there, the owners took all this property. Property is usually not needed by anyone. Their value, I already said, is about 60-90 percent. So what's it going to be? The amount is, and the property is virtually gone, the property is all taken care of, the property is all squandered. So I suggest that this law, of course, needs to be adopted, but it needs to be worked out very and very seriously. If in this law, these additions have a mechanism to spoil property, to break it in cash, then there is absolutely no mechanism to spoil it in kind. And if one person says how to tear this hall apart for 450 people without taking it apart, a monument can be placed on it. That's exactly the situation in any agricultural enterprise. So once again I say that this law, of course, needs to be adopted in the first reading, but it needs to be worked out very and very carefully and made a mechanism -- how do we decompose property in kind, and then we're going to reduce lawsuits to the courts and then we're going to be able to somehow avoid eating the property owners' rations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u150	Thank you. The matter has been discussed, fellow believers. As for the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Tax. The reporter is Ribhub. Let's take a quick look at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u151	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! A draft law amending Ukraine's fixed tax law is being introduced for your consideration. The introduction of fixed agricultural taxes was one of the measures taken by the State to support the agricultural sector in a situation where the capacity of farmers, for objective reasons, has declined steadily. It should be noted that during the 1999-2001 years, there is a steady trend in increasing income from all levels of the agribusiness complex. In particular, there has been a significant improvement in fixed taxes, with an increase of 35 percent. And from 35 percent in 1999 to 85 percent in three nine months of the year. I mean, out of 166 million. Up to 341 million grevens. But coming to the budgets of all levels, and the APC has also increased twice as much over this period as 2 billion,800 million. up to 5 billion 600 million And this year, more than 6 billion are expected. In the process of correcting fixed taxation, a number of issues have arisen that are relevant and need to be addressed by making changes to the current law that we are considering. The draft law on introduction, prepared to carry out the tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers in drafting the bill and taking into account the accumulated practice, the application of fixed taxes. What Is Projected? It's to cancel the payment of fixed taxes in natural form, and now the natural form of tax payments is less than four percent, and the economy says it's the right thing to do. This will ensure compliance with the Ukrainian law on the state budget for monetary accounts and will bring legislation into line. Also refer to the tax base fixed by land under water, which is used by fishing, fishing, and fishing farms for the cultivation and cultivation of fish. In the use of fishing and fishing farms. The fixed tax is almost 18,000 hectares [108,000 ha] of land in which fish products are grown. According to the Land Paying Act, these farms pay only 1.3 million dollars, and according to article 7 as on the land of inhabited areas, it is another 1.6 million. In the case of taxation of the land in question, as proposed by the bill at a rate of one and a half percent of the money estimate of the rural area, more than six million dollars will be added to the budget. But this may not even be the main thing. The main thing is that the land of the water fund is used to a large extent today ineffectively, used and leased by people who are not professionals in the field, and today does not stimulate the law to make effective use of water resources. We have, in fact, managed to catch 30,000 tons of fish on the inland waterways and 310,000 tons on the ocean floor, but given that there were more than 110,000 tons of fish before the proper operation of the inland waterways, and today there is a possibility, because the combined industry, the combined industry, we have a better development, the feeds have increased production by 1.6 times already this year. That is, when we regulate these issues, we are convinced that the water supply will be used effectively and properly controlled and away from the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Light up on the board. People's MP Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u153	Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, I am very close to the situation on the spot. There are even specialized enterprises that were part of the state’s fisheries industry. Today, they haven't changed technology, but they can't buy a van and they can't. So they're practically hungry and they're growing fish, and they can't make ends meet. And now we're giving them a tax that's three times higher than we are on a roll. Do you think their profits are better than wheat, or, for example, from the garden, from the vineyard, where 0.3, and you put one and a half, from the middle, okay? That's the first one. Secondly, do you think that the rates you took on rent and the tenants will continue to pay the local tax on the village council and, in addition, in the state another half percent of the value of land? I think this bill foresees a complete failure of everything, even what we have, and today it's growing a little bit. And I think this order is about to go away. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u154	Thank you for asking. I'll give you a quick answer. That we're sure it's going to be the other way around. Why, for today’s main reason, is the intensive management of fish farms in inland waters. And today only the natural fertility of our bets is being used to a large extent. And if, of course, these farmers who live in Kiev and grow fish somewhere in the Winnietsk region, they give up, rents. And we need to restore and restore the fisheries, fish farms, give them adequate credits, and also pay and reinstate, restore intensive fishing. Then one-and-a-half percent is a small, very small price per hectare of water. Today, on the contrary, only to a large extent will they lower the pond and destroy the fauna and flora that was naturally created there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Minister Sergey Mikolayovich! Please tell us, in recent times, about the grain, about the fodder grain, about, soon, the sunflower will be here, about the fixed agricultural tax. I mean, it's too narrow. What's in the way today? To work, to adopt a normal Agrarian Code, so that today everyone who works with land and water should take this booklet into a car, into a pocket and have a coded document of his life, where half a hundred of what we call laws today, and we spend our time, and yours and we make it inaccessible to the population, including this one, certainly a very narrow law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u157	I am truly grateful for this question because the time is indeed, and the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, together with the committees today, is finalizing a comprehensive agrarian law, which is called "The Basic Principles of State Support for the Agrarian Sector of the Economy," and there are all: and financial and credit policies, organizational and economic, other legal bases. They take in the best in existing legislation. Today, while we are only introducing it, there is a need to improve existing legislation to the extent possible, but not later than 2003, we need to adopt such a complex law. And the Ministry is practically ready to submit it for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u158	National MP Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u159	Thank you. Sergey Mikolayovich, you understand me. I am surprised by your confidence that this law plays an important role in agricultural production. The President's confidence, the confidence of all those reformers in Ukraine, is generally not being met in practice. And when you say that the income from the deficient agricultural tax is increasing steadily, it says that the last tax service takes away from the farms, and they have nothing left. So is this a method to fill in the budget in this way? And you're talking about that. eliminate natural taxes in kind. But come on, how can a farmer sell farm produce at a normal price? Why are such conditions not created in the State? You have to make a government order at a normal price fixed, then a fixed tax has to be paid with money. That would be normal. And yes, there will be what Yavorowski said, even though he has no moral right to do so, and now he says he'll have no apple left, he'll have no cherry left, because in 1991-1992 he was also doing that to keep the peasant without any juice, with the salt water itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u160	Thank you. For one thing, we are and will work with confidence because if we go out to the rostrum and are not sure, there is nothing to do. Secondly, today is really like it to anyone or not, but, honourable national MPs, in our country there is even, whether it's still artificial, but to a large extent, the reproducing of products. And 90 percent or more of the product is exported. Last year, even milk products increased by a third and exports increased by 192 percent. I don't think we can take it sceptically, because it's really gotten by the peasants mainly by muscle. But it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u161	Thank you. Time's up. Mikola Jephthiah of the Committee, please. I will now ask that we conclude this matter expeditiously because the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is ready to inform us.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u162	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Tax, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill provides for the abolition of the natural form of payment of fixed agricultural taxes, leaving only monetary forms of accounting, and for the establishment of new conditions for the collection of this tax for fishing, fishing and fishing farms. It should be said that the arrival of a fixed agricultural tax in the form of agricultural supplies causes some difficulties, especially when a tax payer. The processing business, where products are delivered for payment of taxes located in different areas, and also the arrival of natural taxes, is insignificant. In 2001, only this form of tax is 0.2 percent of the total amount of income. Therefore, it is appropriate to cancel the payment of a fixed agricultural tax in natural form. In addition, the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002 and the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003 prohibits the execution of accounts with a non-cash budget. Either way, we have to cancel. Regarding fishing farms, fixed agricultural tax payers, they calculate the fixed agricultural tax for only a small amount of agricultural land, while the main areas of the water fund on which fish production is grown remain out of taxation. Therefore, it is proposed that taxes on fixed agricultural taxes should be taken away from the water used by fishing, fishing, and fishing farms to complete the production and cultivation of fish. Some 88,000 hectares [108,000 ha] of land in the water fund, where fish production is cultivated, is used for the defined farms of land payers of fixed agricultural taxes. In the case of taxation of the indicated land at a rate of one and a half percent of the land area’s monetary valuation in the areas and in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the additional revenues to the budget will be about 6 million people. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a project to be adopted on a basis. Please support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, the question to Nikolay Eutychowiovich is there? If there is, please sign in. Put it on the board. People's Deputy Kirilchuk, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u164	Dear rapporteur, on the Committee on Budgets, I usually apologize to the Committee on Agricultural Issues, usually agricultural workers, specialists. We know that bets are usually on wild haystacks and water has been stopped. How do you think 0.3 percent of the hayhairs are taxed and one and a half percent of the water mirror. Do you think that's fair? This is the one. And secondly, at the Kakhov watershed, which has a very large area, they also catch fish and there are whole collective farms that do it. What tax will they pay from that mirror, and who?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u165	I thank you for your attention. All I said was the committee's opinion, not my opinion. As far as I'm concerned, of course there are different bets, there are different hosts. Some bets produce quite a lot, produce productively, and some bets, as you say, are actually wild. Maybe you have to think about it, make your own proposals, and expand it on taxation -- one and a half, maybe at which rates are smaller. Maybe that's the way it is. And here's a conversation that taxes in kind are money. You see, now in Ukraine's new state budget legislation for 2002, the draft Ukrainian law says that only they have to pay taxes with money, not in kind. That's, I'll tell you something else. So imagine a little bet, 10 or 15 acres, what would be the tax? What does he carry in a tax inspection of fish? Of course, money is needed, so we need to change this situation. I think the MPs understand it all and have to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u166	People's Deputy Goernik, faction of "Our Ukraine." _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ A few fish, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u167	Dear reporter, I'm in charge of fishing tax. Well, really, they're just starting to come out of the crisis of these fish farms. In fact, there's a new tax that doubles their tax burden, and at the same time there's no loss of credit, so there's no balanced policy at first. And secondly, as they said before me, there are different fish farms: there is a pond, and there is a Kahov reservoir. Can't you see in the second reading how to differentiate this agricultural tax rate?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u168	Thank you for asking. Yes, I can see that I agree with you. But what I'm saying is that the explanatory note to the bill does not contain the basis and detailed calculations of the proposed draft size of the fixed agricultural tax rate for water fund lands at the rate of one and a half percent of the monetary valuation, the unit of the rally area. You know, so we can't give you a concrete answer to how it's going to affect the economic situation of these fish farming farms.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u170	"Our Ukraine," "Solidarity," "The Party of Protectors of Homeland." Dear Mikola Eutychiyovich, please tell me if you have any thoughts on the committee as to how this bill will be implemented in case we vote for it. First of all, the producers of agriculture. And secondly, the people of cities who eat fish that travels by my calculations are going to be two times. I mean, what people have today that they can buy. Did you predict the social consequences of what you are now proposing? And does this coincide with your personal position today, for you are also reporting with the position, of course, of the political power that you represent here? Not only the professional committee, but also the political power, I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u171	Thank you for asking. Of course, we do not have such calculations. But what I'm saying is, in my position, it's a match. Of course, if it's a raised price for fish. But, however it may be, every person or enterprise that pays a certain tax or a certain business or land there should pay a certain tax. Whether this tax is one and a half percent, whether it's too large or too small, we don't have any calculations. So maybe for the second reading, when we're working, we need to invite the experts and the people, the heads who do fish farming, let them give us the calculations and maybe we can make some adjustments for the next reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u172	Thank you, time's up. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, to address this issue. Thank you, Mikola Eutychyevich, that's all. Thank you. People's deputy Karmazin signed up. Please. Let's get out of here. It'll be faster. And for you, yes. Come on, because we have to listen to the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u173	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed changes to the fixed agricultural tax are actually in three moments. In fact, as far as what we have right now. First, it's that the payers of the fixed tax have the right, they've had the right to choose the form of the fixed tax, and this form has been extended over time, so they had until October 15th, if the grain is calculated, and December 1st, if the late grain crops are. This is proposed to exclude and give the money right away. Think about the social consequences of this experiment that you're doing right now. I remember being persuaded to accept such a bill. And then we found out that we did the right thing, that we did it for the peasant. It was breathtaking, it was breathtaking. Where's he gonna get the money today to pay you in cash? You want to punch him in the arm now. Is that okay? Is that why we're here? I don't think we're here for this. We're violating existing peasant rights. And then, I asked you from the point of question, and I said, what are the socio-economic consequences of what you're taking just like that, you're putting a tax on fishing in the internal waters of one and a half percent? Have you ever wondered what we should do with these bets today? They're destroyed in the state. Destroyed! And we have to encourage, we have to pay these people who do these bets. First, they make it better, our Ukraine, secondly, they make it richer, they feed it with fish. We'll check to see if the fish is normal or abnormal. Thus, respectable friends, and since the main mass of our electorate lives in cities, we still beat them in the pocket. This is what we do. And so if they were able to buy cheap fish, they wouldn't be able to buy it. So I think it's a bad bill, not just meant to add something to the budget, or it's meant to improve the lives of our citizens. I'm going to urge all the national MPs who can hear me, who hears my logic of thinking, that drafts that have no socio-economic impact calculations do not need to do such experiments with the population. It is not necessary to make the situation worse, nor has the people of Ukraine chosen us here. We're his servants, and here we look like his panic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u174	Thank you. The replica. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u175	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I want to use my MP's right to reply to the fall of my old opponent and colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u176	Just don't call me names, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u177	I don't call his last name so he doesn't take words for a line. Which isn't the first time I've been accused of ruining the Soviet Union, and now it turns out that I've broken down the colporteurs. I very much ask my colleague not to do this anymore, because I will have a mania of greatness that I myself have done such a colossal job. Once again, I remind him that I am never like a peasant son, the parents of my colporteurs, I have never opposed a private peasant. I was up against barons with 60s and 64s. And my colleague, by the way, has only two sizes smaller clothes. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. As for the decision, we will be determined. It's got names. No one ever mentioned you! Well, Melnik, please. Let's get out of here. Let's get out of here. Mikola Jephthiasz Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u179	Mikola Melnik, Ukrainian Socialist Party I'd like to say in answer because we're being accused of doing wrong or destroying this farm, and we urge you not to pay taxes, just to pay money, but not in kind. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian State Budget for 2000 Act and the draft Ukrainian State Budget for 2003 prohibits the implementation of the budget in a non-cash form. This was accepted before us, and there should be no charges against the reporters. If we take a decision by the Supreme Council today to make a distinction between this law and apply a tax only in kind, I'm in favour of being a producer, but it's never going to be accepted by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed and the decision will be decided on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, before I go to hearing information from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Igor Mikolaiovich, who is part of the People's Authority's Deputy Group and who is part of the People's Choice Group, as well as of the withdrawal from the People's Democratic Party of Alejandro Markovich Bandurka and its membership in the faction "Democratic Initiatives". Dear colleagues, I would like to speak with the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. How much time do you need? Please, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u181	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You know about the dramatic event that took place in Moscow. 23 numbers in the evening. Unfortunately, from the very beginning and until now, terrorists, that's exactly how we qualify these people who took hostages, and I'll continue to comment on where we base this terminology, so that it's fully understood. Terrorists are not in contact with the official factors of Russia, international organizations. This therefore complicates the problem of determining how many people, whose nationality, whose citizenship are so present, and of agreeing with those who have some kind of interaction, how to discuss the question of the return of the hostages, the issue of the hostages. This is true of Ukrainian citizens. At different times, the information gave different figures on different days. From the very beginning, when it became clear that there was no contact with terrorists, the embassy was commissioned to contact citizens of Moscow, Moscow, the area, and other republics in order to obtain information about the credibility of the presence in the Ukrainian theater hall of citizens who might have found themselves there. At that time, thirty such appeals were made to the embassy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, along with the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, is conducting a verification of the authenticity of this information. But the embassy works as follows. Taking advantage of the possibility that terrorists have only contacted the National Deputy of Russia, and he is a national artist or a merited Chechnya Republic of Cobzon and two other deputies, as well as representatives of the Red Cross, and we now expect that representatives of the international organization Doctors Without Borders will be allowed to submit a complete list, thirty people, even if it is not fully confirmed that they are Ukrainian. We come from the fact that there may be a much larger number of Ukrainian citizens in the room who can't get confirmation from their relatives or acquaintances that they're there. So the embassy focused on making the terrorists realize that we will demand to find out to the end which of Ukraine’s citizens are there. Ukraine’s Embassy is based on the fact that terrorists at some point expressed their desire to release all foreign hostages. Including Ukraine. The embassy works with embassies of other countries, and this is all about 75 foreigners in this theater room, and that's how it interacts. Unfortunately, the Red Cross representative's last contact was 20 minutes ago. Five minutes after I entered this room, I had a conversation with Billoblotsky, our ambassador. He went out, and the information is that terrorists are not ready to implement this now, that application for the release of foreign citizens - foreign hostages. The next contact is expected at 4:30 p.m. Moscow time. Ambassador, Consul General, other embassy staff are constantly at the headquarters, which is next to the theater. They have access to information transmitted by the Russian FSB Coordination Headquarters, constantly in contact with the press, constantly in contact with relatives of Ukrainian citizens, and with colleagues from other embassies. According to a report from Moscow, the coordinated work of local authorities is being done to avoid casualties, other victims, however, in order to obtain the release of the hostages. [[There's one victim already.]] Why did I call those who took hostages terrorists? With an understanding of the spirit and the letters of the two statements: President of Ukraine's statements on the night of 23 to 24 and the statement made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that qualified it. [[This was the first statement made by official factors from abroad.]] What's going on in Moscow is terrorism. Ukraine is a party to two major international conventions: the Strasbourg 77th in the UN General Assembly Resolution of 79. I would like to read that we have an understanding of our actions, of our comments. The Strasbourg Convention, paragraph "d" of article 1, says that crimes involving kidnapping, hostage-taking or illegal detention cannot be regarded as political crimes or as crimes related to political crimes, or as crimes committed on political grounds, these crimes are classified as terrorism. So we joined the voice of the entire international community, classifying this action as terrorism. Ukraine cooperates with international anti-terrorist organizations at the official level, offering its opportunities in this area and in the area of international support. In response to the crisis, a national coordination group, its coordinator, and the National Security Council and the President’s Administration were established. The president is constantly in contact, and I wanted to inform you that he has made the decision to complete his early visit and is scheduled to land in Borispol at this time to continue his work. This is important in the context of the following. We would very much ask all the wishes, all the opportunities that national MPs have to coordinate with the official headquarters that are in Ukraine, so as not to harm the operation that is being carried out jointly, not to harm politically and organizationally. Unfortunately, we have to note that those actions that have already been carried out are not coordinated, they can cause damage, damage to the liberation of Ukrainian citizens in the first place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! Just a minute. I think if there's a question, let's make it clear that Yuri Anatolyevich has the opportunity to answer. Please, Andrew School. Well, I see, dear colleagues. But you don't have to write it down. I think it's a short time for us not to turn into a discussion of this issue, so that we don't get hurt here, we've been the best we can do on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear reporter, of course, I understand your concern about the fate of the Ukrainians who are hostages in this concert hall. But what worries me is how much work is done after their release? What are such plans between Ukraine and Russia for the joint release of hostages that may be harmed by national MPs, particularly me? What kind of support can you give me, because in any case I'm going to fly to Moscow today, and I'm going to use all the connections that I have as a national deputy, and as the head of UNA-UNSO to free the hostages who are there and who are being held now? You know that the priority of freeing Ukrainians is beyond question in this situation. And I offered my services back in the day, and no reaction from the Biloblotsky or from the ephemeral and non-existent, like me, there was no headquarters in Ukraine, because if there was no response from this headquarters, then I can properly characterize what it is now missing. What help can you give me when I'm in Moscow, because I'm willing to give you all the opportunities I have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u184	Thank you. The damage, when I talk about it, I regret, first of all, the image, if we do, we can do with the wrong political action. I read a quote from the Strasbourg Convention in vain. The point is that there is an anti-terrorist coalition to which Ukraine has joined, so there is a need to divide specific things. The specific thing is this hostage-taking thing, it's terrorism, so we have to qualify it irrespective of the processes that are taking place in Chechnya. We need to qualify for the fact that there is. This is also done in our applications. Next. What's this all about? You're absolutely right. We have to first ensure that our citizens are released. I think that the actions and plans that are now involved, not only in cooperation with Moscow, and with the FSB, well, with other countries, including Islamic, Muslim organizations, with different representations. We hope that this will make a positive decision. So when I say that it could harm and organizationally, the Russian side that's running this process is organizing all of these measures, it's focused on not having chaos and vermin. So, I'd ask you, go to the embassy, the ambassador on the spot, he knows what to do, and the information that's useful will be used. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u185	Please, Chubarov. I can see everyone. Chubarov, Hare, Klukkowski, Mukchan, Karmazin, Crnowil I can see everyone. You'll all ask questions. Pavlovsky. Dear colleagues, let us consider that we have a different time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u186	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Thank you for reminding us to work in coordination with the embassy and headquarters. That's exactly how I'm going to do it, but I have another question. One of the latest reports from the Russian Civil Service Liaison Centre indicates that Russian official structures oppose the release of hostages for a national sign or for belonging to the nationality of one State or another. I want to talk to you the least about this, but as far as I'm concerned, the Russian side has set two tasks for itself. First. No concessions should be made to those who took hold of people. And second, to save the lives of the hostages. Maybe the first problem for them is more important than the second. But we only have, on the Ukrainian side, one task to save people's lives. Do we understand this, the diversity of goals, and do we act in harmony with that understanding? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u187	Absolutely, we get it. Because there are international rules of conduct when there are such cases. The principle is to get as much freedom as possible. That's the order that will be logically determined to prevent the victims. So the question of all of us together, alone, is already defined by international rules. That's why we're saying: there's a possibility of freeing the Germans -- free the Germans, there's an opportunity to free the Ukrainians, we're trying to free the parties. You pointed out that a number of groups of unmotivated, illogical and misunderstood groups have gone free. Terrorist behavior is unclear. I don't get it. They released three Russians, three men and women of Russian origin, now released children, and unfortunately their behavior was not understood. We stand in a position that exists: to let everyone go as far as possible, and this possibility, it comes in a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u188	Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u189	Yuri Anatolyevich, you have disappointed me with your message. You're giving us a lecture on what terrorism is, convincing us that we should condemn terrorism. We all condemn terrorism, we all worry about whether our citizens will be released or not? This is our main question. You know that the media have reported that our citizens can be released, Ukrainians, on one condition: when these people are fully identified, they are Ukrainians. I would like to ask you whether this report fits the reality and whether our authorities are ready to respond very quickly to such and similar requirements. Even if you have to take the documents and take the plane to Moscow, you have to do it for an hour, and these documents should be there. And the second is whether or not other actions are being used. Did you talk to the public organizations? I wouldn't want us to just talk, I say, through one convention. We need to do everything we can on the lines of social organizations, other relationships, in order to free our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u190	The question is clear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u191	I'm done. Because the liberation of the Ukrainians is for the benefit of other people, those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u192	An understandable question. About our citizens' lists. I can leave the lists we have. They're transmitting, they're working on a human identity plan. Excuse me? So the people who go to the theater have practically nothing. So what's going on in Ukraine. Now we've given the terrorists the list that we received by gathering information. Information is now being gathered here in Ukraine to have passports and so on. We come from what the terrorists initially said would release the Ukrainians, and then they said they would release all foreigners in general. Regrettably, I have already said that the last contact led to their refraining from fulfilling this promise. The next contact will be at 4:30 p.m. Nevertheless, the pressure on both the part and Ukraine, other international, other international colleagues in international society, is pressure on the part of ambassadors. Ambassadors are always there and ready, and I wanted to tell you that when the news came that the terrorists would release the hostages if there were ambassadors or consuls generals to enter the premises, and then they would let us go, our ambassadors were ready, and our consul general was ready. I'll say more than that, they offered themselves in exchange. So I think we've taken all of it, or we've started all of the possible arsenals of possible actions, including working with public organizations, and not only in Ukraine, but also outside the boundaries where the relevant centres are. The only reason I mentioned terrorism was because a criticism came to the Ministry of Internal Affairs about the sharpness of our statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u193	People's MP Klukkowski. All I'm asking is a concise question, a concise answer. Because that's what we're talking about here, and we're not going to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u194	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Your Honor, I'm not going to be too concise, because the problem is too important. I would like to remind you that for every state in such critical situations, and this is a really serious situation, always the only goal is to save its own citizens. Otherwise, what's the point in this state and in the very institution of citizenship? That's what the Americans always did, and I'll remind you how they did in Iran, and they weren't afraid of what they'd call terrorists or not. That is what other countries do. I don't want to qualify this situation, which is extremely beneficial to Russia, because it is the main victim of terrorism and will have its hands untied for all the actions it needs, but I want to ask you if you can officially announce what the main goal of Ukrainian diplomacy and the Ukrainian state is in this situation. Because of your emphasis on information, you can understand that the main goal is to qualify it as terror.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u195	Please answer. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u196	The answer. I would like to say that your question about the main purpose of official authority is completely inappropriate. The main thing for us is to release the hostages. This is what all the authorities are working on in order to do the best that we can. This is the main one, not the rescue, as you suggest the image of the neighboring state. This is the main thing. And I'm convinced that the arsenal of the tools that are being used right now, it's at this point, it's sufficient. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u197	People's MP Mokchan. Dear people's deputies, I'm just the ones we've already called, we're going into discussion, it's going to be a reminder, we have to work now. Let's get this over with. Now, one minute. I stressed the silence, the Carmazin, the Chernobyl and the Pavlovsky, all of it. We've got "Variance" in "Variance" then we'll have everything you want to say. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u198	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, from information coming from many channels, the media knows that the invaders are Russian citizens. I'm not going to evaluate what's going on and what's going on. I am just as interested as John the Rabbit and the Keykowski, and many of us, and all of us, whether we have taken immediate advantage of the situation, or whether we can take advantage of the opportunity that has been given to truly free our citizens. Is this the identification issue strictly identified? And the second. Should we help through certain deputies who will come forward today, literally today, to quickly engage in the liberation of Ukrainian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u199	Part of the answer to this question, or to the fullest extent, was if the gathering of information about citizens from Ukraine, hostages, was in the same way as I said, because there is no contact and there is no desire for terrorists to communicate with officials. We couldn't get a full list. So they got what they got. And the Ministry of Internal Affairs is working quickly to confirm the citizenship of these people. But I would like to draw your attention. Not even getting it because the information's coming. Tonight we received nine more names. And in the morning, it was possible to transfer these lists at the request of terrorists. And the ambassador sent it as it is. And then there's the process of identification. We do not rule out the appearance of people again. We're still gonna put it in there.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u200	Carmazine, please. Let's go easy, please, 'cause they're already in different places. We're all going to demonstrate that we're in charge of freeing people, so everyone's alive, healthy. I think that's enough. It's not a discussion. We're listening to information.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u201	I'll tell you what, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u202	Please, Carmazin, your question. I said, Carmazin, Crnowil, and Pavlovsky. We agreed, that's the end of it. Let's move on to different things. You'll say anything in different ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u203	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! I have a question and an offer for you. Has the Government of Ukraine, the Ukrainian National Security Council, considered the issue of the urgent deployment to Moscow of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Zlenka, to show our attention to the protection of its citizens by this level of representation, by raising the level of representation? And secondly, did you pick up and see how many of us Chechnya citizens have arrived? The citizens of the Russian Federation who have come have been granted asylum and have they been brought to them by the media, which, Your Honor, we also accept your citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u204	Thank you. The question is understandable. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u205	On both issues, the answer is positive. Yes. We're planning a foreign minister's deployment.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u206	Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u207	Dear reporter, I have two short questions. First. Are you simply asking that these two statements, which you are so proud of, actually put the lives of Ukrainian citizens at great risk? And the second question. Andrew School and I are going to Moscow right now, we've ordered tickets, and we'll be there in a few hours. I have a question. Can you guarantee maximum promotion status from the Ministry or at least normal contact with our embassy there in Moscow and with what you say, headquarters in Ukraine? And coordinates.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u208	Please. Ambassador Biloblotsky knows that national MPs are taking the initiative. He's willing to cooperate, and I'm going to go out now and write it down so you can understand. I don't have it under my hand, but I'll look in the notebook.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u209	National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u210	That's what I'm talking about, or I'm giving myself a report. I report to myself as a citizen of Ukraine who made a commitment within the framework of the Council of Europe and the United Nations. So both of our statements were based on this -- the definition. I repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u211	Okay, I get it. Thank you. Pavlovsky’s national deputy. I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u212	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Anatoliyovich, it doesn't feel like you're primarily concerned about our citizens. I was even sorry that you took half the time to praise the President and humiliate the deputies. You've even forgotten.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u213	Please make a point.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u214	And the question is. We voted by the Supreme Council, and that's the question. I want to do it again directly as an insistence that we should immediately assist the deputies who have expressed desire, think that this is the mandate of the Supreme Council, we can vote that they should take an active part in the liberation of our citizens, as well as in our commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u215	I'm going to give you a brief answer so that you really have the right impression. The deputy of the people, Mr. Podpalov Oleg Petrovich, wanted to fly, he called me back, consulted me, took all the phones and he left, and he went there. So when. I'm asking you to understand, there's order.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u216	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree in such a way that we are now giving an assignment on behalf of the Supreme Council to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide all kinds of support to those people's deputies who have the opportunity on the line of public organizations, on other lines, to contribute to a positive solution to the issue of the liberation of Ukrainian citizens. I would ask you, Yuri Anatoliovich, to help our colleague Chubarov, who is ready for mediation. And once again, I would like to say to you, dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say. I think that the question of people's lives should be consolidate, not to show their political line. Let's move on to the Miscellaneous. I've told everyone, please turn around. National MP. Put everyone on the board who signed up for the show from the rostrum. People's MP Puzakov, get ready for Puzak. I say again, we're out of time. Please ask someone for the right to speak. At Melniczuk's, please ask your faction colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u217	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine At the request of the voters this month, I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kinah, for the unsatisfactory execution by the local executive authorities of the Kirovgrad law of Ukraine, "On Metallurgy", although such a request from the area was not the first one. The township looked forward to effective measures to put an end to the violations of legislation, but those measures were never expected. We've just received a letter from Oleg Dubina, the first Vice Prime Minister, which means that the information provided by the local law enforcement authorities and the district commission to coordinate and monitor compliance with the requirements of current legislation in the course of metallurgy operations is subject to considerable work on the detection and detection of crimes, the detection and elimination of violations of legislation, the attraction to criminal and administrative responsibility. Oleg Dubina notes that since the beginning of the year, three licences, 8 copies of licences, 2 licences, and 2 copies of licences have been revoked on the basis of the application of the Minprompolitics. And I think maybe they all needed to be annulled for breaking the law. According to reports received from the branch office of Olenergo, there are 267 reception points in the area, of which only 55 are required. Oleg Dubina reports that there has been a targeted effort in the regions of Ukraine to identify the illegal sector in the area of industrial activity with metal scrap metal. This is how it was done in the Kirovograd region. In just 9 months of this year, 849 thefts were carried out on VAT objects, which resulted in 739 kilometres or 98 tons of uninsulated wires; 27 power transformers, 73 units of different equipment containing colored metals; 31 tons of transformer oil, 106 tons of metal resistors, 585 iron concrete and wooden stands of electricity lines. Total damage from theft during this period amounted to 4.3 million dollars. In the same nine months, 849 crimes were committed, thefts on electricity lines, and only 44 were discovered. The growing number of refusals to deal with matters cannot help but be disturbed. Police departments do not accept statements on various grounds. Such refusals alone by Kirovogroblanergo today have 188 against 144 in the past year’s thefts remain significant. The situation in the area was out of control and the magnitude of the natural disaster. At the command of the electorate, I protest against the inaction of the authorities and demand to immediately ban the use of black and colored metals in the area. And immediately accept the articles on criminal responsibility for storing, transporting, selling black and colored metal. And please consider my statement as a requisition to Prime Minister Kinakh of Ukraine. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u218	Thank you! National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Boris Oliynick. No Melniczuk? And you'll be out of town? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u219	A faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! To take the floor at today's meeting, I am forced by the grave violation of the constitutional rights of the Bucquers, of the media laws, of the national minority in Ukraine, of the persecution of Bucovín journalists by the Chernobyl District State Administration. There's no exception, there's a Gongad on the Shire. There's a really uncontrollable mess going on around the newspaper "Time," "Bukovinsky Watches", "Zori Bukovina." The founder of the last two for more than one year was the Black District Council, and the magazines are widely reported by the internal and external politicians of the Ukrainian State, the simple beech And as usual, the work of its founder, Zorili Bukovina, is known not only in our area but also outside it: Romania, the United States, Canada, Israel, Australia. 20 percent of the population of Bukovina are Moldovans and Romanians. During the 61st year, the Zorili Bukovina newspaper had its own government, and those minorities had their own national Romanian newspaper. But the head of the district government then occupied two chairs, and he did his best to ensure that the two newspapers would not stop. On Wednesday, according to your assignment, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for which I am grateful, I have considered this matter with a professional committee, for which I am very grateful to Mr. Tomenko. Moreover, on September 13, this year, a few metres from his apartment, where Peter Kobelko, the editor-in-chief of the newspaper, was attacked by unknown criminals. Without a single word, there was a blow to the head, the ribs, a splash in the face of "The Cheremukho" and they disappeared. The criminal case that has been violated has not spread to any extent to this day. Mr. Kobevko himself is confident that this is not an attack on the order, but simply over the years, the Chernobyl government has destroyed this newspaper "Time" and the law enforcement authorities have not taken measures. I would also like to say that save the beech forests that are cut out by the Black Forest Mafia and are exported abroad and abroad for no good reason. After each such appeal, the logging crews are even more active. And the railway line cannot cool off the overloaded wagons and the fresh round. I was wondering what terrorists were like and how they were surrounded, and in the President's Palace I was among those 50 deputies, and we were surrounded. And thanks to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, at least we've been given water and allowed to go a little bit wherever we need to go. So that's what happens to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u220	Boris Ilchi Oliynik will be followed by the national deputy of Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u221	Thank you. A prominent society would like to share some of the concerns that come from bitter experience. On August 26, 1991, when the winners of the White House, at the last assembly of the Nardeps of the former Union, took the lead in making lists for arrests, I made the following statement, noting, sorry for the self-citation: "Now I want to turn to the winners: beware of all the extracts that anoint you, are accustomed to trading, they will drive you away, noble knights, and they will reap your fruits, and they will do all they can to cause the winners to break apart and go after each other. Sadly, my predictions came true. The testimony to this is that Yeltsinim shot the same White House in 1993, where yesterday's winners were killed by the hands of the anointed, yesterday's orthodox partyers who were reborn into breakers mutants, who were in need of power, not Russia. As a result of my sad experience, I tried to warn our prisoners of honor, true patriots, who in prisons and camps suffered from Ukraine’s independence and who had no right to this festival, and I urged them to see who they were sticking to them and who they were carrying on their shoulders on a powerful olympus. And they brought out the same mutant breakers who needed power and money, not Ukraine. The protests that are taking place in Ukraine today are the constitutional right of the people, but the corrupts, the clans and thieves in the law have gone red: the reserve of patience is running out. But the moral right to put people on the barricades is limited to those who have struggled consistently for years to change the system of power, not to stop at threats and threats, but to risk their lives, and some have put their heads on. You know them by name. It is to them, knights of honor, that I turn to: do you not notice how the commutants and the new, yet zealous pantoff kissers, the lollipops of the system, which suddenly turn to such even more zealous oppressors, and so loud that you are sometimes barely heard. I am at that age, when it comes to thinking, not about sinfulness, or power, but about the soul. Then I feel it is my duty to appeal once again to the leaders of honor. Nevertheless, before you do what is right, consider your own lavas so that those who reap your fruitage will not slip into them again in the morning, and they will rule us again. I go beyond party preferences or group preferences, just like a Ukrainian. "Hey, watch out, guys on the radio, the commutants are invariable. They sold us yesterday. They'll sell you tomorrow." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u222	Anatoly Orzhachowski, a faction of Communists, prepare for Shersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, voters. I went to the parliamentary rostrum to draw the attention first of all state officials to the problems of war veterans and work that are in Hersonian, I think they are in our Ukraine. In particular, I would like to introduce you to the references that have recently come to me from the veterans of the village of Bilozerka and many others and have become possible, perhaps after we have adopted the 2003 budget too quickly in the first reading. I quote. We are veterans of war, labor and military service in the village of Bilozerka, which in Hersonian, are deeply outraged by the government's intentions to leave us with constitutional rights, to take away the benefits of veterans for utilities and other services. If you treat older generations, veterans of war and work, your parents, grandparents, and grandparents with such contempt, you have nothing holy to do. Our generation has saved Europe from a brown plague of fascism, rebuilt a war - torn country, created all the benefits you now enjoy and so ungodlyly destroy. What subsidies and address aid are we well aware of here. To a large extent, it is available to those who have been able to obtain, truthfully and falsely, appropriate evidence and who have not produced any material goods. Sadly, though, an elderly grandmother who worked her entire life in the field or on a farm grew bread and bread, and today she is unable to do so. And the old grandfather, who went through the fights all over Europe or at the age of 13, sat on a tractor, changed his dead father, and worked his whole life in the field, grew bread, fed the country and the army, and had a pension of 150 bucks, which is not enough for cigarettes, he also has no right to help here, because he got a lot of land for looting collective farms, for which the tenant would give him some grain funds, because the yield in our countries after the destruction of the water system does not exceed 19 to 15 centimetres of hectares, and he has to hire a technique, buy fuel, pay off debts. So what's the old grandfather's lease on the land? Thus, he also has no right to light, heat, and a piece of meat in the cranberry, not to mention medicine. And you're trying to take away from these people the last of the younger generation's respect. Because a veteran who uses the benefits also uses basic respect. They're worthy, they've earned it through years of work, their loyalty to the Fatherland, their honest lives." The signatures correspond to 560 veterans of the village of Bilozerka and the signature are the heads of the veterans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u224	Shershun Mikola Haritonovich. Next Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u225	Mikola Shershun, Ravenshina, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! In recent times, rural teachers have begun to call on me and other national deputies. They are concerned about one of the violations of the Ukrainian Education Act, in particular its 57th article, which deals with guarantees by the State regarding the tax use of housing, heating and lighting according to established standards for rural education workers and retired teachers living in rural areas, as well as their guaranteed rights to land ownership. I will not focus on the latter, for I personally believe that the teacher of the State is to protect financially so that he does not have to think about living and processing the earth, and the effort is focused on just one thing: the quality of teaching children. And with regard to the use of housing under established standards, this provision of the law has not been implemented at all in recent years. In view of the fact that local executions, for example in the Plainsland region, as in many other parts of Ukraine, are subsidized, at least, it is surprising to recommend that the benefits be paid to rural teachers at the expense of maintaining educational institutions. But today, 80 percent of all funding goes to teachers' salaries, and the rest to education institutions' utilities. Obviously, of these 20 percent on site, they will not be able to tear off the 57 - piece bill. It turns out that a rural teacher is offered to choose either the benefits of housing or wages. In the State Budget Act 2003, which you and I adopted in the first reading, article 56 proposes to stop the basic provisions of article 57 of the Education Act. So if we accept the 2003 budget in this way, next year the teachers who are still there can escape from the village. Dear colleagues, today we must not simply make laws or stop existing ones. The Supreme Council, as one of the branches of government in Ukraine, should control and demand the enforcement of these laws, for power is only strong when it is able to enforce laws. That's why I call on all the national MPs, all the members of the Budget Committee of the Supreme Council, the members of the government. If we understand the role of education especially in the countryside, let's find and invest the funds to meet the public obligation to teachers, let's do our best to ensure that the Supreme Council's decision on the summation of parliamentary hearings on education is implemented. Otherwise, we're going to deny the state of teachers -- people who are called to "sow" this belief in small Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u226	Thank you, too. National Deputy Yeshchenko, Communist faction. Prepare Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u227	Honorable Predestination! Dear fellow MPs! Dear voters! We're going to go to the districts, we're going to work, and on November 28, Ukraine is going to celebrate the 58th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashian invaders. So on behalf of my Communist colleagues from all the deputies, I welcome first the veterans who participated in the war, who liberated Ukraine from the German plague. But here today we cannot say a good word to veterans for what they are asking us to reopen on November 7 and 8, to adopt amendments to the law under article 73 of the Labour Code. You know, in January 2000, so-called, most of the Supreme Council of the Third Council destroyed these two dates after the celebration of the Great Yellow Socialist Republic and unfortunately, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we failed to vote and restore these holidays yesterday. That's why I'm addressing all the citizens, all the Ukrainians. The Communist faction, along with the factions of the Socialists, Our Ukraine and the Motherland, continues to fight in a public protest and 7 numbers will come out in all villages, cities and cities in Kiev as a result of actions and protests against the anti-national regime of Kuchma. I invite everyone to participate in these celebrations in Kiev on the 7th at 10 a.m. At the same time, I am speaking on behalf of the voters of our Cherka district who live in the countryside. They are now against the anti-national law, the presidential decree adopted in December 1999 on the reform of the agro-industrial complex. You know, here we're talking about terrorism in Russia, and today we can talk about terrorism in the village, if on August 25, 2000, there was an attack on the resident of the village of Krapovna Zadoñez district of the Cherkas region of Otomanuk. I asked the MP and asked that the matter be considered, but the head of the district department of internal affairs, Kochegarov, said that no criminal case would be violated. So I ask once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to contact the prosecutor's office on this matter. Well, it's about industry. I represent the Committee on Industrial Policy today, and I also address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I went to Kinach on the issue of the Cherkasian N.V.C. "Photoprelad" for a government order. You can't do that. While in this business, the prime minister promised the group to resolve the issue. Time has passed, and the train is said to be there. So I think these issues need to be solved at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u228	National Deputy Alexandrovsky, Communist faction. Then Gurov will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u229	Dear Presidium! Deputies! There is often a need for political stability in this room as a prerequisite for overcoming the economic crisis in Ukraine. That's a very correct statement. True, it should be noted that, with total disregard for the law, particularly in the structures of power, cynical disregard for the interests of most citizens, political stability is not possible in the context of the false tractorage of historical facts. A certain contribution, in coffee shops, to the destabilization of society, is also made by those intentions to rewrite history into accord with their own political ambitions. I am referring to a number of bills that have been introduced to the Supreme Council recently. Including the President of the Supreme Council. And those bills that were introduced earlier to rehabilitate the UNU. As our electorate refers to these issues, we can see from a letter addressed to the people’s deputies. I quote him. "Dear MPs! Before considering a bill supported by the Government of Ukraine on the rehabilitation of the Fascist forces in the United Nations and the recognition of them as a warring party with Hitlerian Germany, the days may remain to be considered. I am convinced that many deputies, other than those who hold national Fascist positions, voted in favour of this bill, either for ignorance of the historical truth and of the facts of the crime of the Oen, or for the pressure of forces interested in deepening the divisions in society. Both parties have the opportunity to prevent the finalization of Ukraine in the eyes of the countries of the Anti-Hitler Coalition and the entire world community by blocking the consideration of the Government's proposal, or by removing these issues in general, as reflected in the clear position of the Nürber International Tribunal over Nazi adversaries. You also have the opportunity to learn about the work of the international conference, the crimes of the United Nations against the people of Ukraine and the countries of Europe, held in Kiev in 1997. The conclusion and conclusion of this forum are based on historical facts that leave no doubt as to the fascist essence of the Onov formations. I think that the position on these issues, many deputies will change after this briefing. It may also change with our Kharkiv deputies of Jewish nationality, Dopkini, Feldman and others who voted in favour of a bill to rehabilitate bloodbaths: Bonderu, Shugevic, Stecko. Those responsible for the mass destruction of the Jewish population. To illustrate, I will refer specifically to foreign sources on this issue. The Lviv edition of Polish author Korman, on the blood days of Lviv in 1941, contains a photocopy of Stephen Bandera's treatment, in which he calls out: "The Lions, the Jews, the Communists, destroy without mercy, do not pity the enemies of the Ukrainian People's Revolution!".. And to confirm the facts of the genocide of the Jewish people, please ask the person sitting as close to you as you can in Parliament as possible, the widows of her fascist husband, Mrs. SteckoY, published by her husband abroad, my life story. In fact, her husband stressed the need for the destruction of the Jewish population by the Nazis. You can give a lot of examples and facts on this subject, referring only to the foreign publications of the nationalists themselves, because our sources and people like you are being questioned. By doing so, you will contribute to the cohort of anti-Semitism by undermining the confidence of the electorates of our region, where an overwhelming part of the people reject the postulates of Galican national fascism. Your reputation will be finally undermined if, thanks to you, Bander, Shuhevich and Stecko, the posthumous title “The Hero of Ukraine” is assigned. By your actions, you deepen the divisions in society. On 2 October this year, at a press conference in Harikov, I said that a respected Jew should not give you his hand. I will not give it to you, Ukrainian, a distant anti-Semitism for your pharisaism, for the betrayal of the living and dead by the hands of Jewish fascists. Last sentence. I doubt you would have done that if, for example, the rehabilitation of Nazi criminal Eichman had been resolved. Like you, you might vote for it. There is an elementary notion of honor, which is inherently from a living organism, losing it, the individual is alienated from society.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u230	Please finish, don't make me turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u231	I'm done. You've obviously come to realize that the voluntary surrender of the MPs would still retain your face to some extent. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u232	Please, National Deputy Gurov, People's Rule faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u233	Dear colleagues! Vadim Gurov, Krivbass, People's Rule faction. In recent times, I have been approached by scientific workers in institutions that refer to the branches. That's what I've heard in all the field meetings of our committee. It was in Krivbassa, it was in Zaporozhye, it's Donetsk, it's Dniprodijnski. The adopted Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities has essentially decided on the task of increasing the prestige and priority of the work of scientists, designers and designers. The law defines basic legal, organizational, and financial principles for the functioning and development of the scientific field. Article 24 of the Law provides for pension insurance and social protection of a scientific worker. However, along with the positive aspect of this article, its practical implementation needs work. Yes, the changes made to this law since 1 January 2002 provide for the payment of a scientific pension not only to professionals with a degree of learning, but to everyone without exception who has produced scientific production or engaged in scientific and organisational activities. Why does that apply to us? the average of scientific organizations, as well as ordinary enterprises. The law provided for the payment of scientific pensions at the expense of the State Budget. But with the changes to the law and the Cabinet of Ministers regulation 1826 of 13.12.2000, the pension funding order was changed. The difference between the amount of pensions assigned to scientific workers and the amount of pensions calculated according to other legislative acts is made at the expense of enterprises, organizations where the expert worked. Organizations that have dropped dramatically in recent years have not been able to account for their funds to provide additional credits to the Ukrainian Pension Fund and to pay pensions to workers and persons who worked 20-30 years ago. So for example. Guilt Riggs, 30 employees now have, and should provide pensions to over 600 pensioners. Well, think about it: if the fund is now 100,000 dollars, they have to pay 200 thousand dollars every month for working pensioners. That too. ‘ Guilty Rig. 110 workers and 170 pensioners, who have to be subsidized like this. At the same time, the payment of the pension difference is relatively small if you look at it on the scale of Ukraine. It's about 4 million dollars, while accounting for scientific research institutes to the State Budget and state-owned target funds alone in the mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine stands at 48 million last year. This issue was addressed by the Supreme Council of the past call, and changes were made to the law, which provides for costs, for the provision of staff to be made from the State Budget. That's why I think it's appropriate to go back to this matter in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u234	National Deputy Lechchenko. Prepare Karnauhu.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u235	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Today, I once again want to draw the attention of the national deputies of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and the President of Ukraine to the problems of our unfortunate Ukrainian village. In recent years, by decrees of the President of Ukraine, measures to reform rural relations have led to forced, without the consent of peasants, the destruction of collective agricultural enterprises and racons. As a result, huge arrays of crumbling grills, sharp declines in livestock, dumped on a permissive social sphere, and unheard of unemployment. Deprived of worthy sources of existence and development, the Ukrainian village is destabilizing and dying. Much of Ukraine’s national deputies, though elected in rural constituencies, as well as the government and the President, are not concerned about the country’s plight. They are all waiting for January 1, 2005, when, according to the illegal Earth Code, land trade will begin. The preparations for this are again under the President's orders. The peasants are handed over the State’s land ownership acts to take the land away from them. This action is an analogy to the deception of people during the privatization of state property. Unfortunately, most Ukrainian national deputies, who are part of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, as well as the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party and have their own business, which are representatives of certain financial and industrial groups, are lobbying in Parliament their personal or corporate interests. To the problems of ordinary peasants and villages, they have no business because their business is booming at the expense of the village. In the meantime, even new agricultural enterprises are in a pitiful state. They suffer from pressure from monopolists in the fuel and agricultural markets. I will give you just two examples that are typical of all of Ukraine. First. At the beginning of harvesting, fuel prices rose sharply. The MPs immediately responded and initiated a discussion on the preparation for the harvest of the Government’s Day in July 2002. After that, no significant action was taken by the government. Therefore, the cost of wheat, for example, in the private rental company Malozagorovské region of the region of Breznijně, reached 730 dollars per tonne. At that price, it was issued to peasants, on a lease basis for land rations. At the time, the purchase price of the grain market was only 350 dollars per tonne. So there are monopolies who trade fuel and grain traders. The problem also arose at the beginning of the gathering of sugar beet trees. We asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the government replied that everything was fine. But we can see that now the purchase price for the beet fell by as much as 30 dollars compared to last year's. So at the yield of 30 centurions per hectare, this is the village's help. The government budget for the village provides cash, there is nothing to support and develop the social sphere, there is no parity in the prices of agriculture and industry, and the technology in the village is worn out. At the same time, the machine is barely breathing. How long will such outright abuse of the countryside and agriculture last? I am again addressing Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoli Kirilovich, as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Return to your village face, halt its brutal exploitation, and take effective measures to develop agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u236	National Deputy Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare the Masterpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u237	Mikola Karnauh, 152 Lochvic constituency, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I, like you, am an authorized representative of the Ukrainian people. And that's why I'm addressing you first of all, doing the will of my constituents, and I want the President to hear me. Regrettably, the Ukrainian political authorities have not been created in Ukraine in all their years. Our authority or, as we call it, the political regime today does everything but solves the specific problems of our citizens. The president and officials of all the arts and equations focus their efforts on nonexistent, deliberate problems, distracting them from issues that need to be addressed urgently. There are a lot of examples like this, starting with the Law on Power, on the Ukrainian referendum, right now -- about trying to change the Constitution and create what's called a working group. This is a major threat to the Ukrainian state and to citizens. We're saying we went to the market. So why do we have the price of medicine, utilities, the energy supply market, and the cost of labor is non-marketable? Why do people get low wages? Why is the economy in the shadows? Where did this regime drive her? The economy in the shadows, the deputies in the majority, and our citizens in the grave. This calls for responsibility. So it happened that today we had different choices because some had won, some had been brought here by corrupt authorities. But by the will of fate and God, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are today the Head of the Supreme Council and you can unite this session hall. You're already kind of a developer of the Kuchma regime today. You say there's political censorship, there's telephone law. It's all true. Please stand up for the elements of democracy and do not give the Supreme Council the opportunity to have another time in the toolbox no longer existing problems. Today we must adopt such laws. First. Identify the basic principles of internal politics. And the outside one, too. And to focus your efforts on the adoption of legislation that would allow you to build a competitive environment that would allow you to increase the cost of labor as a product that would allow you to carry out reforms, particularly in the countryside. And in other fields. So I call on all the deputies to cooperate and those who have no dignity yet to say that there is no worse death of will on the outside. Deputies! Let us unite and act in the name of the Ukrainian people, in the name of the Ukrainian State, in the name of our electorate and our home land. We're doomed to do that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u238	National Deputy Masters, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare National Deputy Shulsa.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u239	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I call upon you, fellows of honor and honourable voters! Vladimir Mystrishyn, District 14, Our Ukraine, Head of State Debt, Solidarity. A decision was taken at the Budget Committee on the impossibility of ratifying the 2003 government borrowing programme until the horses were ratified and discussed on the Budget Committee. In turn, I sent inquiries to the Cabinet of Ministers about the provision of funds for government borrowing programs for 2003. I haven't received an answer yet. I think we should talk about the history of the question today. For consideration by the Supreme Council, the draft budget was always provided with background information on the government’s borrowing program. And so the MPs never took seriously the fact that there was a program of held loans, how it was financed. It's not American money, it's money that increases our government debt. Thus, we are unconsciously now receiving 14 billion debts, which are now Ukraine’s sovereign debt. More than 24 percent of the budget is now in debt. The Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 14 of article 85, defines: "The powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are: the approval of decisions on lending to Ukraine, economic assistance to foreign states and international organizations, and the receipt by Ukraine of loans from foreign states, banks, international financial organizations not foreseen by the State budget of Ukraine, and the monitoring of their use." What am I offering? I propose the following procedure. Only ratify programs after the proper conclusions of the Budget Committee for each of them. These conclusions can only be drawn after a detailed consideration of the expanded resources and the underlying of these programs. In turn, as head of the State Debt Subcommittee, I guarantee that this information is sent to the professional committees. An example. Today there is a program, a program to combat tuberculosis and AIDS. And let me draw your attention, this program has $310,000 written down for the purchase of machines to indicate the disease and 2.8 million for the training of doctors. Is this distribution faithful? It's the only thing that can give a profile committee. What am I proposing today? One more minute. I'm sure that supporting you with my proposed state loan scheme and ratification will help us to take a more responsible view of the debt burden of the country as a whole. So once again, I stress the urgent need for the government to provide funds for targeted programs, and I ask that my application be considered a repeat request. And literally briefly. In Winnitz, an interfractional group of faulty deputies was formed. The 24 national deputies joined this group, who were born or elected from the Winnitsk region. The head of the association on September 21st was the national deputy Prashenko Petra Alexiyovich, secretary of Vladimir Skomarowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u240	ShuIga Mikola Alexandrovich, Communist faction. He will be followed by the Kosovo People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u241	Schulga, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Today’s Ukrainian society is a society of paradoxes. It opens up the process of globalization, which is, of course, usually imposed on the outside, but at the same time, the process of archaicism is equally active. In particular, I would like to pay attention to an alarming phenomenon that can be scientifically called a communication deprivation or, more simply, a sharp constraint on the boundaries of human communication. As a representative of the Human Rights Committee, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it affects poor people, especially older people, and those living in rural areas. Their ability to communicate with the world has been severely limited, and they can only communicate in their homes. This reminds us of the early Middle Ages when man was nowhere else to come. You can't leave your village, especially a small and remote village, most people can't. This situation is caused by a number of socio-economic causes, the main one being, first of all, deep poverty. For pensioners, unemployed, many children, the tariffs on intercity transport are too high. Secondly, many and many local bus routes have been cut short by the damaged bus network that existed before. The bus transport of passengers in 10 years from 1990 to 2000 has been reduced by more than three times and, more precisely, by 320 percent. People used to go to other places with boats. During this time, though, passengers were reduced by 9 times by river transport. There are people sitting in villages and small towns, chained to their own backyard, unable to visit their sisters, children, and grandchildren, unable to communicate fully and indirectly with them. It's too expensive for them to have mail services. 55 copies per simple envelope for correspondence in Ukraine is not a small thing for every family, but 95 copies per SND. And to send a 200-gram banderol across Ukraine, you have to pay 3 bracelets 20 copies. And this little banderol to Russia or Kazakhstan, it's got to pay 14 bucks for it. And where to send a letter when out of the 28,000 villages in Ukraine, 16,000 have no funds. The statistics show what this has led to. Letters have been reduced by 10 years by 5 times, the number of telegrams by 6. Socially vulnerable groups have virtually ceased to write, and the state has led the people of these groups to severe isolation, poor tracts of citizens deprived of the ability to buy newspapers and magazines, and so they are deprived of the ability to communicate with the world. The consumption of newspaper products has decreased by 10 times. Add to this a loose, once powerful network of radiation and that only half the village is a library. It's such a sad picture. Man is lonely and wild in these circumstances. Is the power so powerless that it will continue to be so?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, I suggest we continue our work for 15 minutes. Please, Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u243	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow national MPs. Today’s year is both a year and a very famous and very sad Ukrainian Jubilee. The famous Ukrainian Jubilee is that the 60th anniversary of the formation of the Ukrainian rebel army was recently celebrated. And I would ask my colleagues from the Communist faction not to make statements like that of my colleague Alexandrovska, for this can be seen as a mere provocation aimed at disuniting our factions who are committed to fruitful cooperation. The sad Jubilee is 55 years ago, the then totalitarian regime of Poland has criminalized the nature and methods of deporting some 150,000 Ukrainians, indigenous residents of Nassenje, Lemkisht, Homščina, and Podlješa. This deportation campaign, known as the Vistula operation, was aimed at the complete and rapid assimilation of Ukrainians in Poland. At the same time, from 1944 to 1951, more than half a million Ukrainians were forced to move to the territory of the Ukrainian RSR, which left 842 hectares [842 ha] of their original parent land. Undoubtedly, these concerted actions of the governments of Poland and the USSR under international law are an act of political deportation and thus a crime against humanity. During the last decade, the attitude of the Polish government towards Operation Vistula has undergone serious changes. In 1990, the senator of the Republic of Poland condemned the Visla action and claimed that he wanted to correct the wrongs it caused. In 1997, more than 200 well - known public and cultural actors in Poland made a similar statement. Despite this, the restoration of legal rights, the deportation of Ukrainians are blocked, and their problems are not solved. One reason for this is the indifference to the problems of foreign Ukrainians on the part of Ukrainian diplomacy, the President, the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I know that the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration has drafted a draft law on the protection of the rights of Ukrainians deported from the territory of Poland to the territory of the U.S.R. So I suggest. In order for the Head of the Supreme Council to request the Cabinet of Ministers to submit the bill for consideration and adoption by the Supreme Council. It would finally be at least a partial compensation for the harm and loss these people have suffered.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u244	National MP Pavlovsky, prepare for Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u245	Julia Timoshenko's faction. Fatherland's Party. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, I am addressing journalists, young people who are sitting there. I address those who listen to us on the radio. Dear friends! I was very concerned, even excited today, by the appeal in the Voice of Ukraine to the National Teachers' Deputies, in the energy-gathering congregations that voted in favour of this address. Why did it excite me? Because this appeal is a confirmation that today the ideology of totalitarianism is active in Ukraine. In the textbooks, I refer to young people, you can find rules of totalitarian regimes. I'm only three names. First rule. Fear. To intimidate people. Rule number two. What the authorities don't like, shut up. By the way, there is censorship in Ukraine. Censorship is a way of organizing an information system, where only the information that governs the public is the information that governs the government. All right, you don't need censors. And the third rule. National support. So this is the address, the national support of the teachers of Energodar. They write, they are indignant that they insist that lately, we have witnessed the destruction of everything that has been achieved by such efforts of the President and the government. Teachers who have a wage of twice the minimum of living have stood up for the President. They have to say, even at children and at parental assemblies, that thanks to the efforts of the President of Ukraine during the years of his reign, she lost economic potential twice as much as during the years of World War II. And you say, back him up! All right. Why, do you think, did one deliberately raise his hand by voting? He was afraid. That's the ideology. Silence. Action "Get up, Ukraine!" On the 19th, there was a beautiful rally where there was a memorial board on the bank where it was written, "There will be a memory here for the victims of the Kuchma regime. True, the sidekicks took the board off at night. And in the end, double morality, especially the Attorney General's Office. As for Timoshenko as one of the leaders of the opposition, if the court says that criminal cases are illegal, the Attorney General says the court cannot take a decision. If an honest man found Judge Yuri Vasilenko and filed a criminal case against Kuchma, the prosecution says, "And that's illegal." Same thing, different. So all of this is a sign of the totalitarian ideology of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u246	The word is given by the national deputy of Shibko, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Tiny.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, no more respectable Vladimir Mikhailovich! On October 23, this year, during parliamentary hearings on Ukraine's relations and cooperation with NATO, the secretary of the NBO, Eugenius Marchuk, announced that the declaration of Ukraine's sovereignty was lifted, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR on July 16, 1990. In his words, I quote, because I know who I'm dealing with: "The Declaration of State Sovereignty of the Ukrainian RSR, 1990, yet the Soviet Union, does not yet have an independent Ukraine, does anyone remember? I remember when it was accepted, there were deputies here, and how it was accepted. These are non-block states within the Soviet Union. 1991, December of the month, Ukraine’s independent and decision - making country, has completely abolished the more serious documents that were adopted in 1991. I am addressing you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and I ask you to consider this an official statement: To find out, the opinion expressed is either Marcuk himself or the official opinion of the National Security and Defence Council, led by President Kuchma. And the second. The commission of the Committee on Legal Policy and the question of the succession of Ukraine with a Declaration of 16th 1990, given that the act of declaration of independence of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council on 24 August 1991, states that the declaration of independence of Ukraine is an act of declaration. And the Constitution is adopted by reference to the act of declaration of independence of Ukraine. Please also give the commission to the committee to determine whether there may be a question of the legal effect of a declaration under appeal to the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention. May I have a word with Semenyuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u248	There's time left. Please, Valentina Seminouk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u249	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues! As a delegate of the Conference of the All-U.S. Association of Vocational and Technical Institutions of Education, as a delegate, and as authorized by them, I would like to make an appropriate statement. First. There are 958 vocational and technical institutions in Ukraine, 142 of which have higher vocational schools. There are 367,000 children in the ninth grade, 10,000 of them orphans. Today, from the 18th, from August 18th, the total cost of utility payments for food has been stopped. That's why we demand, this is what the conference delegates are asking, to discuss this situation immediately in government, and to allocate money for heat, electricity, because in fact today 96 schools are completely shut down from electricity. Warning of shutdown 465. In fact, 68 nomads don't work at all, they don't include heat at all in 543 schools of total quantity that I called. The other one. The creation of a labour recovery agency that needs to be subordinated to all of Ukraine's professional and technical institutions. I mean, so that they're clearly following up on the issue of job creation. Third. The 2003 budget provides for an increase in the cost of salaries and the allocation of children’s food. Including orphans, at least two to one-and-a-half times. This is what the delegates of the conference are putting in today, where I will be present after this talk. Thank you, Vitalia Yakovich, for the word and Vladimir Mikhailovich for the opportunity to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u250	Please. Constantine Mercury Sitnik, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u251	Dear National Deputies! I wanted to draw your attention, the attention of all of Ukraine to the need to do something, to do it with confidence and undeniably in the field of science. I think science is in a very difficult state today. If I know exactly what's going on, let's say, at the National Academy, I can say that about 20 percent is using science today, because the possibilities are still available, because today, when science is not funded at all as science, and it's financed only by wages, we can't do anything without science for the tenth year anymore. I wonder what that is. Well, that means we're having a tough time today. But what's even worse is that we don't have a future. Why? Because we have a very wrong personnel policy. Today, there is a devaluation of scientific degrees. Today, there has been an increase in the campaign of government to obtain scientific titles, degrees, and so forth. There's a campaign of scientific activity going on. You know that the possibilities for science have become much less: no devices, no reagents, and the amount. And in medicine, it's a difficult situation, and the number of doctors and candidates is increasing every year. I don't want to get involved in social sciences, economic sciences, humanitarian sciences. Maybe there are more favourable conditions there today, but that's the rate of growth of doctors in economics, in the field of jurisprudence and so on, I think it's insane. So I think it's time for the prestige of science to be accepted, the authority to raise, and to plan and change personnel, and change in human resources policy and financial policy. And I'd like two more literal moments. So near Kiev there's Teremka, there's about 90 trees cut down, up to a meter in diameter, there's one, and no one's worried about it. I would like the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology to address this issue. And one last question. I've just been. I've just been to Lugansk on defensive street there's a shelter factory." And he saw that people were being evicted there after the heating season started, which is not legally possible. And these people, 200 kids in this dormitory alone! They're being evicted, they're not. Where would they go? So they even turned off the heat, turned off the heat, turned off the light, and they're miserable. I would also ask the appropriate authorities to work to save these people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-25-m0.u252	Dear National MPs, of all the suggestions that have been made out of the problems that have been violated in your various speeches, will be given appropriate instructions, addressed with appropriate letters. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on November 12 Government Day with information on the progress of the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and measures to strengthen the social protection of army personnel and their families, military pensioners and military veterans.
