ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the session room and take your seats. Turn on the "Race" system. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[16:02:56]] Registered -406 There are 406 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We continue to consider matters according to the order of the day. Dear colleagues! Who's out of the procedure? Please, Alexander Alexander Moroz. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to focus on what we need to keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I literally took a minute. I would like to refer to the deputies who took part in the vote on the appeal to the courts regarding the humane treatment of the boys who were arrested today and yesterday, thank you for joining the initiators of the case. Oh, that's different. It's a call from the deputies today. There were 206 votes. I think it's a humane gesture that everyone understands. But it's going to take a little longer or more time, and they're going to watch the Supreme Council as an organ deal with this problem, whether it was actually humane or not, saying these things about other structures of power and in general about the situation in the state. I'd like to urge you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if I may, to simply confirm and repeat that vote once again, in the sense that we have removed any indication from there that we are interfering in judicial matters. We just turn to the right, we turn to the high institutions, hoping that they will be humane, looking at the issue and no more. I think this is necessary for Parliament and for a demonstration of its attitude towards such an important issue. And last of all, I'm addressing the deputies, so imagine what this is about your children and grandchildren. This is not the way it should be, and at one time someone would have to deal with such a procedure for your children. Take a humane step, a gesture of truth and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that I'm going to put it to the vote and I'm going to go straight to the budget issue. Dear colleagues, please calm down. I am voting for the Supreme Court, and the Chief Justice here is present, as well as the Kyiv Court of Appeal, on the fate of those people whose court ruled yesterday. I'll bet you a vote. Please, colleagues, vote. I've read this address to you and I ask you to vote, it's understandable. [[16:06:17]] For 271 Decision taken. I am announcing the draft budget for Ukraine for 2003. The head of the budget committee, Prashenko, is invited to report. How long do you need? Five minutes and ten minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues. In accordance with article 44 of the Budget Code, you are now presented with the draft State Budget Act 2003 prepared for the third reading. As you know, we only adopted a second-reading budget yesterday, and in fact only yesterday, from 3 p.m., the budget committee started working on the preparation of the draft budget for the third reading. I can inform you that the Budget Committee has concluded its meeting this morning at 8 a.m. By 11 a.m., textual articles had been uploaded to the computer that had been agreed upon and had already become a good tradition that decisions on textual articles and decisions on appendices on the budget committee had been taken by consensus. I ask with understanding that we do not rule out certain organizational textal inaccuracies in such depravities, and so we ask that we be given the opportunity -- I say to the stenographer -- to find such inaccuracies so that we can correct them in the process of processing. Dear colleagues, in fact, the budget committee has made a very serious compromise with the government on the approval of the expenditure of the State budget, i.e. the appendix of the third, and on the approval of the textal articles of the budget. What, in particular, would you like to stop? For the first time, the State Budget Act ended the shameful practice of predetermined financing of housing for military personnel. For the first time in the expenditures of the Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Foreign Service, were provided with living money for which military personnel could build, and it was also money for housing. For the first time, we have very serious work on the mechanisms with which the government can deal with government debt. It is also about a timely buy-in with a discount of Ukraine’s debt obligations, the placement and employment of government debt assets, which we believe is significantly expanding government capabilities and will enable us to work more effectively with this instrument of the State. As you recall, yesterday we approved the government budget's income of 50 billion 20 million dollars and 52 billion dollars. First of all, I would like to highlight the priorities of the budget committee in approving expenditure. First. We confirmed the decision we made on the second reading, and we fully ensured the improvement in the financing of road construction that was given to us yesterday. And the innovation is that now the road service will be able to finance not only strategic roads, but also local roads, and we are confident that this will significantly improve the situation in Ukraine's economy. Dear colleagues, at the same time, we must admit that the budget committee was forced to work under a resource deficit, so the budget committee had to go to a certain reduction in expenditure in relation to the government project. Yes, we were forced to cut certain expenditures from the Ministry of Industrial Policy by 40 million to cut the cost of financing the coal sector. But at the same time, we were able to follow very seriously the priorities that we declared on the previous third reading. This is once again saying that this is a fuel-energy complex, this is agriculture, this is the Armed Forces of Ukraine, this is science and education. And I'm confident that the compromise that we have found and that the budget committee is represented by all the factions that have unanimously supported our decision, shows that it is difficult, but compromise today gives us reason to expect a positive vote on the State budget. And what I'd like to draw your attention to is that there are two signatures in your papers. The first signature is the signature of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič of Ukraine, and the second signature is the signature of the head of the budget committee. This indicates that we do not need to give a comparative table of government and parliamentary options. We have a common position, and we are confident that this is an example of a successful and effective search for compromise and cooperation between parliament and government, and we are confident that this compromise should be implemented in a positive vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u5	So what do we put to the vote? [[Laughter]] Please sign up for questions. Please sign up. Please, Rudzkowski, while they're recording. Light up on the board. Yes, National Deputy Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u6	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU, Zaporozhye. Three short questions. When I voted for the second reading, I bought on the size of the capital deposits on the spot. I don't see them here. They're drying up somewhere. Say it. Please call this the size of the capital deposits in places. As a Marjorie MP, I'm very concerned about that. Article 38. Why subsidies from the State Budget, why is not at least a portion of the funding allocated for the subsidy to Zaporozhye City to repay the loan to the World Bank? There's an amount of 6 million. Not at all. Some architectural centers. Question three. As Secretary of the Committee on Social Policy, I find the government's cynical challenge that it stubbornly refuses to raise the social pay table, article 44. Think about it: 40 bracelets of mother care for the child. Someone tried to live and care for the child for 40 bucks a month? And 200 bracelets is a one-time hand at the birth of a child. Three questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u7	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. First of all, dear colleagues, I'd like a moment's attention. In fact, my presentation did not reflect the position of the committee in terms of government spending. As you know, the government version of the budget project provided 350 million dollars of government capital to be distributed as 250 centralized and 100 regional. The Budget Committee converted its approach to central government capital and allocated 225 million to regional capital. If you look at the text of the budget, we've agreed with the government, and I think that the government's representatives -- the prime minister, the first vice-premier -- can confirm this, that the principle of determining an objective list of stupors will be based solely on our proposals with you, including yours, Mr. Dry. We have developed a methodology that has been passed on to a government where the amount of capital is tied to a specific amount per capita. And so the national deputy majors who made their proposals within the prescribed time limit will see in a government decree that will be approved or accepted by the budget committee those objects that they passed on to us. Why don't we approve them with the budget? Unfortunately, because of technical problems, not all deputies and not all regions worked well on the list of capital deposits. And that's why we made a methodological decision when we have the opportunity to work out this list with the government. But I insist that none of your letters will be lost. This should not be an addition to the budget, it should be a government decision agreed with the Committee on Budgets on the basis of letters from the National Deputies. It's about social orientation. Let me disagree with you, because it was in the 44th article that the Budget Committee, at the suggestion of its colleague Noshchenek and colleague Sushkewich, increased funding for disability subsidies, which required a certain amount of money. We have increased support for war veterans once. We're not fully implementing the law, but we've been searching for resources and targeting them to raise the level of social protection. If we claim that today, for example, after Zaporozhye, we have found some consideration, we have been able to take into account the construction of bridges. I think there's a big problem for the very city where you're elected a national deputy. And at the expense of the Road Fund, we've foreseen 14 million, at the expense of centralised capital funds, to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u8	Yes, please, National Deputy Taran, Teren. Julia Timoshenko's faction. Mikolo, I'm on my way. What can I do?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u9	That's it, thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you very much. Dear Peter Alexiovich, first. The first government to allocate funds to the development of the Ukrainian language was the government of Yushchenko, Timoshenko, and there 25 million dollars were allocated for the development of the Ukrainian language. I want to thank you and everyone who's worked with you that at least 10 million dollars is allocated for this. This was the conversion of our faction. Thank you very much. But I'd like to. Well, I'll tell you in the line of work. This must be transferred from the Ministry of Education, Peter Alexiyovich. Pavlovski, don't bother! I'm asking you to translate from not to forget, from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Culture. That's what I talked to Assadchev about and you. This is one moment. And second moment. When we wrote in a letter, we wrote about the purchase of books for rural libraries. Is there anything I can do? I understand that the money is the manager's doing it, but still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u10	Thank you. I think we can resolve your proposal to transfer expenses to the Ministry of Culture when we're working on this. And we can go to a meeting, I'm saying that for the stenographer. And I can also tell you, colleague Rudkowski, Mikola Rudkowski, I can also tell you for the stenography, from technical issues, that the energy-saving resource has been disintegrated for the construction of wind power plants, which stands at 60 million. We'll take this into account and the final version will show up, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u11	National Deputy Noshchenko, faction of the Party "Industry and Entrepreneurs" and "Urrigible Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u12	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, you have indeed said that we have the right to make a mistake because we have worked in extremely extreme situations. But I would like to focus on the following. In the version that we were preparing for the third reading, we anticipated that the cost of rehabilitating the disabled would be allocated to the protected articles, and it would be necessary to finance them first. Because this year, out of 250 million, only 130 have been funded since the end of the year. I'd like you to see it in a stenography of at least a voice. And the second. In the process of processing the lines. I'm sorry, the National Committee for Sport and Disabled Persons on Physical and Sports Rehabilitation and Disabled Sports is somewhere technical, losing 5 million dollars. I'd like that to be taken into account when working on the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u13	In answer to your second question, they stayed in the financing of the Statecompartment. You'll see them there, spending on financing sports and disabled people. Dear Mikola Janović, I ask, in answer to Mikola Petrovich Noshchenka's questions about the financing of the protected articles, I ask that we confirm our agreement that the protected articles are the position of the government, that they will be financed in the first order. It was our deal. And I think this agreement by the government will be implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u14	People's MP Yankovsky, faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u15	Dear Peter Alexiovich! The question concerns the 46th article: "Prohibition of budgeting in non-cash form, including the use of promissory notes. Today, however, the state has owed large amounts of taxes on added value. As a result, the elimination of promissory notes makes it even more difficult for exporters. I would suggest that we rule out the use of promissory notes in article 46. And the second question. Why did the coal industry absorb 43 million in restructuring? These millions were by second reading, now they're gone. And the settlement of the regressive claims was completely taken out of this article. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u16	Thank you. First. We had a very difficult discussion with the government, and it was the mechanism that was envisaged by the budgetary committee that those economic operators that had a long-term debt to compensate for the value added tax, that was a very difficult discussion with the government, and I can confirm that the government had gone by redefinitioning our proposals, that it was not about any but just a confirmed overdue debt. And in these circumstances, when late debt is confirmed, long-term accounts for these entities are retained because in fact these entities are lending to the State, and this is in fact an execution by the State within the full scope of the Added Cost Tax Act. We're working very hard today so that the interests of exporters are not affected. I had a conversation with my colleague Matthews. Edited with the government, we're going to specify the figures of the 46th article, where it will be clearly distinguished, who is a real producer, who works for export and has a right to compensation, and who is a fictitious firm that actually destroys the value added tax, using non-money forms of accounting. Regarding the removal of 40 million from the coal program. We're actually at a budget committee meeting, I told you, we've been working under actual hard resource constraints. And in our view, a significant increase in actual first-reading terms took place by more than 700 million dollars to increase the financing of the coal sector, while in fact the rest of the nation's priorities were left entirely without a proper response to funding. So we found an opportunity very small, less than five percent, to finance the coal sector while the main mass preserved this funding. Now it's about regression. We have a really painful problem. But I want to insist that it didn't fall out, that just changed the source of funding. If previously the source of funding was the general fund of the state budget, now, at the expense of the regressive fund, we have an absolutely real resource, which under the State Budget Act will be directed at the same amount of 73 million to compensate for the regression. So no removals, no pressures, no cuts in the article to compensate for the regression.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u17	Thank you. Peter Alexiovich, time is running out, please sit down. I'm asking you to calm down! What are some suggestions? Here's the document and read it, and there's no questions and no answers, no discussions. I ask you to read, and then you will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I'd like to also, for the transcript, testify that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u19	Peter Alexiovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, calm down! Please invite First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine-Zarov Mikola Janović to report. Please. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u20	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, the Government has worked hard and constructively with the budgetary committee during yesterday and today. And since the budget balance was approved on second reading yesterday, the work focused mainly on spending and on textual articles. Despite a certain difference in approaches to cost reduction, we have found a compromise, and this is the most fundamental thing that the Supreme Council has the right to prioritize. I will not say that it was easy to discuss the text articles, but we found compromises everywhere. I can therefore make it clear that the draft budget under consideration on third reading is an agreed compromise document. I will not repeat the points on which the Chairman of the Budget Committee has referred, I would like to say a few words literally. The budget, which I hope we will accept today, has been able to keep realistic for both income and expenditure. He's extremely tense and heavy, but he's realistic. Second. The concerted action of the Government and Parliament has led to the adoption of laws that we have not been able to adopt in a few years and which allow for the optimization of the structure of the Ukrainian tax system, especially on such an important tax as a tax on profits. This made it possible to increase the income of more than 2 billion bracelets. This does not mean that this revenue will increase automatically with the entry into force of the laws. The Government needs to mobilize all the ministries and agencies to carry out this difficult and difficult task. However, this has enabled an additional 1.6 billion gross to be allocated to local budgets, and local budgets have not been received in previous years. This, in turn, will allow a minimum of 18 per cent of the budget salary fund to be increased by the following year and the ratio of salaries that was violated with the introduction of a new minimum wage as of 1 July of this year. In addition, local budgets have been able to increase the cost of medicines, energy carriers and fully account for their expenditures. This has also made it possible to make the increases shown in the appendices. And I would like to say, in assessing the work done, that it has been possible to agree on the many proposals made by the people's deputies, so the Government requests that the draft Public Budget Act 2003 be supported in third reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, please sign in for 10 minutes. National MP Matvienkov, European Choice Group. Light up on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u22	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Nikolai Janović, in order to remove all the contradictions that have arisen under article 46, I propose the following option for the transcript, to make this option sound so that we can bring this article into line with the rules of the law currently in force under VAT, which has been agreed upon and amended, the following amendments are proposed. So on page 28 after the words "military property" instead of "t" puts "a" and then after the text "tax-added-cost operation on immigration into the customs territory of Ukraine of goods", put a dot. And last but not least, remove everything else from the paragraph, and then after the text, "The Cabinet of Ministers approves the order of use. That is to say, in this way, it is as if we are bringing this article into line with the rules that are in force today under the VAT law and we are not settling the differences that may arise in the consideration of this issue. I'd like to take this into account. I don't think there's gonna be a difference in voting on this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u23	We have discussed this rule seriously and for a long time in the Committee on Budgets. I agree if we, both in this norm and in others, Vladimir Mihajlovich, decide that we will redefine the text of the law, editorially, including taking into account the amendment made by the people's MP, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u24	National MP Petrenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u25	Thank you. Petrenko, the Communist faction. Please pass on the word of Cibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u26	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u27	Thank you. The Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. Mikola Janović, I asked you a question about article 29 yesterday. I know that a small resource was found there to increase funding. But even with this resource today, the funds allocated for the 29th article are about the seventh part of the rule of law, given that people today, and this is usually frontists, participants in combat, just can't wait, because they're now 75-76 years old, and we can't put it off. What can be done? And the second question. I feel like someone really doesn't want the budget law to be passed. What do I mean? In any of the budget options, there was no question that the State budget would interfere with the funds, in this case we would dictate to the funds, which interest on wages, on other things, and so on, and so forth. And the third. None of the budgets decided to serve the Pension Fund at the State Treasury. It wasn't in any of them. Once again, a new norm is emerging.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u28	Questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u29	Dear Peter Stepanovich, you have indeed raised a number of social issues, including raising the level of subsistence allowance to provide State social assistance to disabled children and children, disabled persons and the size of annual cash assistance until Victory Day to war veterans. When the draft law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003 was finalized, it was considered that proposals and an advanced opportunity were made to increase the level of lump sum assistance to war veterans by 12.5 per cent, i.e. to 90 dollars, to individuals with special merit in front of their home country - 63.6 per cent - to 90 dollars, to family members and wives, to men who had died in combat and to participants in war, recognized as disabled - by 25 per cent, to 50 dollars. Also included is the proposal to increase the level of subsistence allowance to 90 dollars to provide social assistance to disabled persons from childhood and children with disabilities. As for the funds, well, first of all, it was a proposal by the people's deputies, and a proposal, more specifically, a budget committee. Now. Unstated, I agree. But we've looked at, for example, this fund -- the state unemployment insurance fund -- that's where these percentages stand -- 14.9 percent of the projected income goes to the fund itself without taking into account the rest of the previous year. This is almost 15 per cent of the revenue collected is spent on maintaining this facility. It's totally insane, in our opinion. Moreover, we have looked at the surplus at the cost of these funds, and we have seen that these are such socially significant issues as regressions, such as the creation of new jobs in regressive territories, can well be covered by these funds. With regard to the treasury services of the Pension Fund, this would allow for better concentration of resources, financial resources. But once again, I stress that this is your right. The Prime Minister of the Supreme Council - the government will not insist here, as this decision, once again, I stress, your Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u30	Pavlovsky’s national deputy, please. Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mikola Janović, 3 questions very briefly tell me each. Yes. We ask you to restore four and a half million for homeless children and orphans. It's been removed, it's got to be recovered, it's a penny. Where to get the money: The President's administration, the power structures. The second question. 3 million, you've already talked about this, please confirm that 3 million will be returned to the country news of illegally decommissioned funds, and of these, 1 million will be issued to the Chewchenk collection. And the third. Today, 381 national deputies voted in favour of high technology. There, 20 million were placed on these programs, and 10 were reduced. We're asking you to restore it. And what's left, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is I'm asking you to give Rudekovsky 10 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u32	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u33	Rudzkowski. Mikola Janović, I'd like your attention to the transcript. We agreed yesterday on the Conciliation Council and on the Budget Committee that in article 32, paragraph 32, 90 percent of the sources of paragraph 25 of article 9 and article 36, 10 percent of paragraph 26 of article 9 and 10 percent of paragraph 25 of article 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u34	Dear Pavlovsky People's Deputy. I think that if the Supreme Council allows the drafting of the law and, in clarifying all the figures that normally arise on balance, 4.5 million, I think we can send to the maintenance of homeless children. Now on the issue of the return of the village news money. Well, it's a matter of judicial decision. I told you yesterday or the day before that the government would solve the issue. With regard to the restoration of 10 million to 20 million for high technology, this amount, if balanced, will be the money. I think that, with the Committee on Budgets in drafting the law, we will do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u35	National Deputy Soloshenko, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u36	Dear Nikolai Janović, distinguished colleague. Today we have an amazing situation, when we discussed the law for the first time on second reading, we said that the Pension Fund and other trust funds should not be part of the law, because it is a violation of the Constitution. It is not enough to propose that the Pension Fund's money be served from treasury. They'll go there, and you and I can get full-time pensions. Therefore, the distinguished Nikolai Janović, unfortunately, is not clear on the logic of how, in principle, without discussing this situation, we go into the room with a sufficiently final decision. Once again, there is a Constitution where it is written: trust funds are not a part of the State budget. It's not that logic, and not that way, de jure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u37	First of all, in the State budget, money, both the Pension Fund and other funds are not included in the income and expenditure balance, i.e. they are separate funds and are not included in the expenditure or income of the State budget. Now with regard to their treasury services. For example, the Pension Fund is now serving with its multibillion dollar budget in a commercial bank. Similarly, other extrabudgetary funds are maintained in commercial banks. The Committee on Budgets found that it was wrong, that it was money collected under special laws. Therefore, their conduct should be carried out through Treasury. The Government, realizing that this is an additional burden on Treasury, has taken a cautious position here, because we should take the Pension Fund to treasury services is a huge additional cost. Therefore, if we agree to the treasury service of the Pension Fund, it is only in transit. Therefore, I repeat, this decision on treasury services will not enter into force immediately, it will be processed, preparatory work will be carried out. And we have agreed with the budgetary committee, as with other contentious articles, that the first quarter will be the screening quarter. If some of the articles fail, we will go to the budget committee in February and come to Parliament to adjust the texts of the articles. This is, therefore, true of the position on which they understood the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u38	Oleg Zarubinsky, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First. I was going to say, Mikolo Janovich, that none of the proposals that I've made are entirely legal until 1 October not included in the table that was given earlier. And where it's written "partially counted," it's not counted at all. It's an insinuation. That's the first one. One second. Article 46-1 of the Final Position states that the Cabinet of Ministers agrees with the Supreme Council Committee by February 1, 2003, a confirmed list of objects and their funding is centrally invested. And it says "one of them." And only four positions. The fourth position refers to equipment for a diagnostic center in Poltava. I have nothing against Poltava. But tell me what criteria were set out to highlight that. I was making a proposal for the reconstruction of the Vinnicko-Recovery Center. What is this samplery, I don't understand it? That's the first one. One second. Why is not the Road Economy Act adopted two years ago on financing the road economy by only seventy percent. And the last. Unforeseen money to support the construction of a fishing fleet, although according to the Cabinet of Ministers decree, it should be 15 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u41	Dear People's Deputies, I promise you, I'm on this list when we've considered it in the Committee on Budgets, and I immediately made a comment and said that we will now not decipher the list of capital investments that will be sent. Let the Government collect all applications from the total of the people's deputies, the district administrations. Dear People's Deputies, you listen to what I'm saying! Maybe the offer I want to make right now will work. Thus, these applications will be collected, reviewed, evaluated on each application, the budget committee will come, reviewed and then submitted to the Supreme Council, approved the list and went to finance. As for your specific proposal. We really discussed it, and we have no objection at the Winnick Center. We will necessarily include it in the list of capital investments. I could say the same thing about fishing finance. But with regard to the roadfaring fund, we have increased it by a minimum of 300 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u42	The Turmanov National Deputy, please, and I'll give it to you in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u43	All the comments that the Zarubinski People's Deputy has made will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u44	Dear Nikolai Janović, there is article 58.4. I suggest you add it with the words "except for enterprises that are under restructuring" In this budgetary process, which was this year, the first article came in, and today it has blocked those enterprises that are closing down, 18 and a half thousand people. So I'm asking you to add to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u45	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u46	I agree. If the Supreme Council supports it, we'll take into account the finalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u47	Thank you. National deputy Boki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u48	Dear Chairman and Honourable Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, I am addressing you and I am not addressing Mikola Janovich, because he has never hosted his word, and I have reason to say so. Yesterday, Mikola Janovich, you spoke about the issue of the issue of the publication of the complete Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenka. As you know, in order for this year, in the next year, to produce six volumes, Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk's 12th Tombs needs 8 million dollars, they've allocated 5.6 million dollars. Where do you say we get the rest? Why are we putting Taras Shevchenk in line today? Mikolo Janovich, you and I are mortal, all mortal, one Shevchenko immortal. Are we going to compete for Taras Shevchenk? There's a place to take this money. You're spending 20 million on no one who needs a structure other than Medvedchuk, like the Ukrainian National Committee of Youth Organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u50	Your Honor, it's very interesting to hear from you. You asked about the issue of production, and 5.6 million in the budget was allocated for this purpose. We asked for an estimate, no estimate. One thing the government can say is that if 5.6 million is not enough, we are ready to allocate additional funds for the publication. But you have to understand that the budget is a serious document where every figure has to be justified. Therefore, by responding definitively to this question, we are saying that we will allocate the necessary amount of money for this purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u51	Thank you. Out of procedure, please, Assadchev. Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, please on the rostrum. Assadchev, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u52	Thank you. Dear Peter is already Alekseiovich, I just want to get a transcript, because everything was done quickly and there were mistakes so that we could fix them. Article 2, paragraph 5. There is not 50 percent of the excise congregation, but 70 percent of it is on the road. There's 70 of them in the S.H.I.E.L.D. It's a technical error, we'll fix it. So, according to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy code 2801190, it's not 58500, it's 70500. It's also a mistake, it's in balance, there's no change in balance. And another mistake, which means, in language development, it goes to the Ministry of Culture, not the Ministry of Science. There's no balance there either, yeah, you know that question, we're just going to flip it. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. I would like to testify in 46 articles, urged by my colleague Matvienkov, colleague Boyko, the prime minister, to agree that we are in the text of the 46th article. Yes, first of all, I confirm everything my colleague Assadchev said. First position. The second position that, according to the text of the 46th article in agreement with the prime minister, under the demands of the national deputies, we will put to the vote article 46: "on the customs territory of Ukraine of goods" and put a dot. I'm saying that for the transcript. Then we ask not to discuss, as we said, so we agree that after the word "goods," we put a dot. Yeah, and the word "a" is replaced by the word "a" and the word "a" is replaced by the word "a" and I also say it for the stenographer. First position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u54	Oh, no, there won't be a minute. I'm asking you, sit down, there's no word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u55	Second position. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please, let's take our seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u56	I beg you, sit down, let us vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, we did it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u58	Peter Alexiyovich, make an offer to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u59	Find these compromises. The committee unanimously decided to adopt the draft budget on the third reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, please! Come on, calm down! For Sufrich's reasons, please. Then Alexander Alexanderus Moroz. Everything, please, is now three men and we vote. With a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u61	Thank you, Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u62	I beg you all to take your seats! Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u63	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the question of the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, unfortunately, has not taken place on the list. The faction wanted to ask the following question: Will the 2003 budget be what we expected it to be? That is, can he actually raise the wages twice for social workers — teachers and doctors — because we insisted on doing so in our discussions? And the second. We were very interested in the sources of government deficits. I would like to remind you that the first question was clearly defined in August’s address. So far, we don't see it in the draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u64	Thank you, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich. I would like there to be no double standard policy in our room, because it is when you, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich, demanded that the budget be re-readed, because it is unrealistic, the income is too high, the money to raise the wages of the puffed-up, and that's why we demanded that the bill be sent back to the second reading. Today, for some reason, we have come to terms with double the wage. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u65	Thank you. Alexander Frost of procedure. I'm asking you to calm down! No words, please sit down. Please! Please calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Peter Alexiovich, you see how sharp.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u67	I'm asking you all to take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u68	I'm asking for your attention. You may see how intensely and intensely and with some intrigue the issue is being considered. Why? Because we lost three weeks of intrigue in Parliament. They weren't needed at all. And today we are forced to vote on political grounds, trusting those factions who worked on the committee and prepared the project. There are so many questions. The faction will vote in favour. But I would like to see one position in the transcript at least. Today, an appeal to the Attorney General’s Office for the distribution of funds through the UNMO. So for youth programs you're called, you don't know, for which you're spending 10 million for a ministry headed by Longzhenko. Transfer it to a vocational school, there's not enough 20 million, and that's the question. I think this is going to be the right solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the third draft of the State Budget of Ukraine on. I'm asking you to calm down. We've all settled the questions. I ask you to vote. I am betting on the adoption vote in the third reading of the Ukraine State Budget for 2003. Please vote. We'll have everything for the transcript, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, before the vote in general, we will record everything. Please vote. [[16:55:37]] For 336
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u71	The offer, Peter Alexiovich. The factions. Let's do it in general, Peter Alexiovich. Let's make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, please sit down. Dear colleagues, before the vote in general, also received subsidies of 15 million in Crimea, subsidies to Zaporozhye for bridge construction, and came out of the technical position of article 20. The agrarians are in position, we'll get it back. Request to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u73	I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u74	Crimea, we told you, Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u75	Ukraine's State Budget project for 2003, taking into account the People's Authority. I'll put it to a vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u76	We switched, Assadchev said. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u77	Please vote. [[16:56:33]] For 348
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, I welcome you to our budgetary victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u79	I'm begging you, by the factions, to give. Please sit down, dear fellows. Victor Fedorovich, a few words, please. The Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u80	Honorable National MPs. The government is grateful for its cooperation with Parliament, for its understanding, for its patience. The government will take further steps, work on the government's agenda, along with Parliament. And in my opinion, we will still have the opportunity to consult on the government's action programme in January. And once it's done with the regional programs, taking into account the proposals that will be made to the government by individual factions, by individual deputies, we'll submit this program for approval and Parliament's consideration sometime in early February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u81	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Here I have asked you to contact the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Mr. Vasil Timothyovich. He's got a few words. Vasil Timothyovich, please. Dear colleagues! We're still working. Work's not done yet. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u82	Deputies! You've invited the judges here twice for a termless election. They appeared conscientiously. During this time, 300 to 400 cases are put off each day. The number of cases is increasing. If we don't look at this today, it's thousands and thousands of things that won't be considered by the end of January. And so I ask you to vote for these people for their election. Thank you for your understanding and support and congratulations on the coming New Year and Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u83	Thank you. What will be the will of the Supreme Council? I'm putting the bill to a vote. People's deputies please take their seats. I'm putting to the vote draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 2514 on the election of judges. Please take into account the request of the Chief Justice to vote. Please vote. We've already discussed this issue today, you weren't there at the time. Discussed, reported Onichtuk today. [[17:01:07]] For 308. Decision taken. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk on the second question, please, which you have not reported. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk. Let's do the factions. Here is the decision to be released. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, we've just chosen judges on an untimely basis, and now we have to take away one of them's robes. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has received an application from the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine regarding the dismissal of the judge of the Grandblade District Court of Herson district of Golovinov. What's the problem? On September 11, 2000, under the chairmanship of Judge Golovinov, a criminal case was brought against Bronnikov. According to a verdict in this case, Bronnikov was sentenced to three years ’ imprisonment. And to him was chosen the precautionary measure of keeping under guard. On the following day, however, the judge referred to the place where the sentenced person was held, another sentence, where the penalty was changed from a sentence of up to three years of imprisonment. This seems to be a rather serious violation, I would even say, unprecedentedly, that in one case the judge handed down two opposite sentences. You know, about two months ago, the Supreme Council had listened to this question. And then, given that this discharge was granted to the judge, it was entrusted to the Committee of Legal Policy to consider further with the invitation of the judge and to study further all these materials that were actually made. The Committee on Legal Policy, along with the High Council of Justice, established a special commission, including staff members and the number of deputies, who went directly to the place where the designated judge worked. A meeting was held with him, which confirmed, and with other witnesses of this process, which confirmed that the violation really did not have room. We invited the appointed judge to a meeting of the committee that had decided on the recommendation to release the judge, he did not come and, by the way, did not show up for today’s meeting. For more than two years, the appointed judge no longer works, although he is paid because he remains in the position of judge. Therefore, the request and recommendation of the committee to support the submission and release Judge Golovinov from his office today as judge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u85	What are some questions for the reporter, please, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u86	Julia Timoshenko faction, Fatherland Party, Cloud. Your Honor, I don't mind what you're saying about the judges' decisions, but since the Head of the High Council of Justice is illegal, because he's grossly violating the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, we can't make that decision because it's illegal. And in any case, after a while, those judges will go to court and that decision will be overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u87	Dear colleague, I'll give you a brief answer to your reply rather than your question. The Committee of Legal Policy has considered the situation that has arisen in the Supreme Council of Justice and given that there is a decision by the Kyiv Court of Appeal, by the name of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has acknowledged that there is no compatibility with the Kiwalov People's Chamber, we have concluded that such submission is valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u88	Incorruptible, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u89	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, in the development of the position that Stephen Cloud has just expressed. Now we've really voted in favour of the appointment of judges, because that's what people need, and people are innocent. But what I'm saying is that the faction of "Our Ukraine" will in the future be deprived of voting in similar situations because there is indeed a violation of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, which, in all our great respect for the Supreme Council of Justice, does not allow this position to work on amateur principles. The violation was in violation of the 19th article of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, not in violation of the status of the MP. I think if the legal elite does not comply with the laws, what can we then demand from all the judicial corps and from all other Ukrainian citizens? And I very much ask the Committee on Legal Policy to be very careful about the position of our faction and the position, ultimately, of the law and the Constitution and in the future to first resolve the issue with the leadership of the High Council of Justice and, by the way, with the compatibility of other persons who reconcile positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u90	Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u91	People's deputies with a judge's office, otherwise we'll just put the judges in a very uncomfortable position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u92	Thank you. National Deputy Catherinechuk, please. Only on the basis of this point will you be specific, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, you understand that the issue is not with the judges right now. Today at a faction meeting, I tried to convince my colleagues about today’s election by judges, but the principle was that of Kiwalov’s position. So I would like to point out that this issue needs to be resolved as soon as possible, because I predict that in the future the question of the election of judges will be blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u94	Thank you. Last name, please. Korzakov. And now we're all going to vote. Korzakovsky. Orzhachowski? I'm sorry, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u95	Dear reporter, I'm Orzhachowski, the Communist faction, Hersonish. This is about a judge who is also a representative of Hersonianism. I'd like to ask you two questions. First. I know the commission was working properly, but I also had a conversation with this judge for days, but unfortunately, somehow, as he said, no one introduced him to the conclusion of the commission's work. That's the first one. The other one. As he told me, he couldn't come to the committee because of the disease and he was putting you on the spot. And the third. No one invited him here today, as far as I know. That's right, isn't it? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u96	As far as the results of the commission's work are concerned. The commission was working on the spot, talking to him directly, and I'm sure he's informed about the move, actually, to study the situation. He, in fact, when invited to a committee meeting, made a reference to his being sick. But the three members of the commission who met him, who personally judge as we now see that he felt perfectly normal, in a good mood, but I said that I seemed sick and I wouldn't go. You know, it's been a long time. And I've taken the same position as you that it's best to check three times, but not to harm a person if it's not her fault. You have to believe that today I have the conviction that we must take this step and get him out of office. Two years is not a person's job. If in the end he felt innocent, he would also take an active position, defend his right, come to the committee once, twice. You'd come here eventually, no one would. Hence, respected colleagues will always find reasons to explain why something did not happen when they do not want an event to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u97	Have a seat, please. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Golovinov from office of judge is put to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Turn the system on. Vote. [[17:11:05]] For 196 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it? Okay. Please take your seats. Have a seat, please. Please, Karmazin's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u98	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has dealt with this issue several times. We've found that for almost two years, a person doesn't work, gets money from the State Budget, and laughs at everyone at you. Focus, please. All those who have come out now on the budget, come back and vote for justice to be restored, and to this place should have been an accepted judge, who will, indeed, work and conclude today's case. That's it. That's what the Supreme Court is asking you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u99	Please have a seat. It's a motivator microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u100	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski Jovkovsky district, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Consider the fact: As soon as we voted a kilogram, we appointed a vast array of judges, not asking anyone who it was, what it was, and what it was. Now the committee that carried out a colossal deep check, here's Philenko telling me one more time, a man needs to be released. What's going on with us? We do not vote for the release of Kiwalov, but for the release of this judge, a helpless, helpless judge. Let's vote! What's going on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u101	I'm putting to the vote a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Chief Justice. Number 2317. Please vote. [[17:13:37]] For 264 Decision taken. From Anatoly Matvienko's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u102	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Vasil Timothyovich is gone, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you, and then to Kiwalov, let those judges who did the political bidding yesterday kill innocent people. I think it'll be fair then, and, Vasil Timothyovich, I'm asking you to respond. But I have a request for you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You made a deal, and you're not doing the deal, there's got to be a prosecutor. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we just have a big negative impression that you're breaking the deal. We ask you not to allow yourself to be like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u103	Dear people's deputies, we agreed, indeed, and I do not hide my deals or break my deals, it was the commission of a committee headed by a colleague of ours, Moses, he proposed this order of business: information from the Minister of Internal Affairs - 10 minutes, answers to questions - 10 minutes, information from the Attorney-General - 10 minutes, answers to questions - 10 minutes, statement by the Head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection - 3 minutes - only 43 minutes. I just did. I'll finish, then I'll give you my word. Once again, he consulted and received information that I can get to your knowledge and read. Again, it may seem that someone is avoiding an arrangement. Here is the minister of the interior, and I received this letter: the Ministry of Internal Affairs is conducting a service investigation following the fact that there was bodily damage by National Deputy Wolinz. I have been asked by the Attorney General on this point to initiate a criminal case for the purpose of establishing the actual circumstances and the guilt of the police. The results of the investigation will be further reported. I received a letter from the Attorney General of Ukraine, and now I was trying to contact him, telling him why I had not contacted him. In connection with the statements made at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 26, 2002, the national deputies of Ukraine, Timoshenko, and others about the events that took place on December 25, 2001 during the sentencing of a group of defendants in a criminal case involving mass disturbances, an investigation is being conducted in Kiev on March 9, 2001, by the prosecutor’s office in Kiev. At the direction of the Attorney General, the management of the check is placed on the Chief of Staff of the Board of Directors. The previous results will be reported on December 27, 2002 until 13 a.m. I tried again to get information about why there were no people who were supposed to be. I was informed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs that the Minister of Internal Affairs is ill, and the Attorney General is in Odessa. I'm bringing this information to your knowledge and your suggestions. Please, Andrew School. Let's put in a commission, let the committee make proposals when we consider this issue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u104	Dear Vassil Timothyovich, I ask you to leave. Mr. Mallarenko, I'd like to see you here, too. We supported and took out one judge, appointed others. I'd like you to take a look at the fact that happened in the Zagreb cinema where Judge Volick, while in the council room, was talking to one of the deputy heads of the U.S.A. And accordingly, the sentence was completely rewritten from that charge that the C.E.U.S.A. offered. So I'd ask, if one person can't handle it, we've taken it off, then I'd like the other. Judge Volik had one application. I don't think it's gonna be too much. And I'd like to address you, sir. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and about this. If we can't see a sick interior minister today, if we can't see a prosecutor in Odessa today, when can we see them? It's ignoring the decision of the Supreme Council, it's disrespect for both you and us, and for all the national MPs. We can talk to them tomorrow, tonight. Well, we've got to figure this out somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u105	Okay. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, please, what will be the proposal from the committee? Now we're going to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The committee is in contact with the heads of law enforcement agencies. And I'd like to see this in two planes. The first sentence is the one that is to be charged in the order established by law. And other events that took place in court during the sentence. So on these events, give us until tomorrow, we'll figure it out, and I'll be ready to report to you at the session. Well, you want to scream, scream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u107	I'm asking you, Your Honor, give our colleague a chance to finish, and then there will be questions, you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u108	Tomorrow we'll be ready to report to you. I'm not ready today, I'm not talking to the minister, I'm not talking to the Attorney General, I'm not studying the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u109	Please, Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u110	If you're listening today, please. Well, where am I going to give you the minister or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the trouble in the country is not entirely because of the bad laws. The trouble in the country is total because the laws are not being implemented, and you agree with me. There is a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the highest legislative body of our nation. And we need to figure out who is sick, who has the flu, or who else has it. There is a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We'll sit here as long as we can. But it has to be today, or on a stretcher -- we don't care -- or sometimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u112	Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u113	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Mr. Head, I'm addressing you as a colleague, as head of the committee. The authority of the Supreme Council is when it makes a decision. And the profile committee guarantees the execution of this decision. As far as I can tell, there might be some kind of time's worth, I'm asking you a question. Please tell me there can be no such thing as to prevent a minister and a prosecutor from coming to the decision of the Supreme Council, just as there can be no reverse appeal of one or the other being ignored by the Supreme Council. I'd like to ask you, when will the minister and the prosecutor be in this rostrum? Name the exact time, if you can, and you can't, when you do, by informing the Supreme Council, protecting the authority of this esteemed body that we represent with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u114	Dear Mr. Anatoly, you are also the head of the committee, and you know that any question needs to be prepared at least if you don't study. So I say again, I haven't talked to the minister or the Attorney General. What can I tell you? If you just want to listen, that's one thing. It's a different matter. Give me until nightfall, I'll report tomorrow morning. If there is a minister, ask the Head of the Supreme Council. I'll try and find him, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u115	Dear colleagues! So I propose, the proposal is to move this matter to 10 a.m. tomorrow and assign all information to the committee to generalize and define the procedure for addressing this issue, as well as the recommendations on the outcome of the discussion. But you don't have to ask me, and I'm going to look for a decision to be taken by the Supreme Council. There's no objection. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's do some more work. We have a section -- re-examination of laws with the proposals of the President of Ukraine -- this is the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the question of the compatibility of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine with the requirements of 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine with the proposals of the President of Ukraine to repeal the law. The President’s proposal to repeal the Supreme Council’s decision and to adopt the law was considered and proposed by the Legal Committee. Is there a profile committee representative? Please, Mikola Onichuk. Only, Mikolo Vasilovich, briefly to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! 2.5 years ago, the Supreme Council passed a single sentence law that defined the order and form of referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court when it was necessary to refer the constitutional law to the Constitutional Court. These were different political times, and then the issue was relevant. After that, there was a decision by the Constitutional Court, there was a jurisprudence in the Supreme Council, and it shows that there is no problem in settling this procedural issue. And the President, by the way, returned this with an offer to reject it, meaning that this is a matter that should be settled in the Rules of the Supreme Council. Who should sign this submission, the Head of the Supreme Council, and what form of this submission exactly. The Committee therefore considered this issue at its meeting and recommended that Parliament accept the President's proposal to recognize the appropriate issue of the order and form of referral of the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to settle the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as these questions refer to the scope of the Rules. In addition, you know that since then, the Constitutional Court has considered three constitutional bills, made the relevant conclusions to Parliament, i.e. the problem, as it were, is missing from my point of view. Therefore, the Committee requests that the President's position be supported and that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u117	I'll bet you a vote. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u118	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Your Honor, please tell me after your proposal, after the President's proposal to repeal this law, which legislation today will regulate the order and grounds for bringing the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for the stated reasons. I would like to remind you that in accordance with article 19 part two of the Constitution of Ukraine, all authorities, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine, act solely on the basis of the way and within the limits provided for in the Constitution and laws. If you are not able to provide a legislative act of the Constitution or a law on the basis of which the Supreme Council's referral to the Constitutional Court is determined, please state whether it is possible to fill such a serious gap in the legislation. And one last question. Do you not think that this law could become part of the future Law Law? Therefore, there is no reason to cancel it today, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u119	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. The most important document that regulates this issue is certainly the Constitution, which obliges the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the procedure for the adoption of constitutional laws, to obtain a preliminary finding by the Constitutional Court in this way the Constitution determines that the Supreme Council, on the basis of its ruling, refers to the Constitutional Court. It is natural that the mandate of the Supreme Council to act on behalf of the Supreme Council for the enforcement of regulations is vested in the Head of the Supreme Council as such. Therefore, the normative basis is directly the norms of the Constitution. As to whether this bill could not be considered part of your proposal, I agree, really this norm, the project proposal, may be part of that normative act that must be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, notice, the law is still 99 years old and it's hanging on us, so I'm putting the committee's first proposal to repeal this law. If not, then we will put a veto proposal to the vote. Right? Is that logical? I therefore put to the vote the draft Supreme Council decision No. 0896/P on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act "On the order of referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the question of whether a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine is compatible with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine". Please vote. [[17:27:53]] For 231 That's 231, the law's over. I submit to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 25/07.2002. The committee proposes to accept the President's proposal to repeal the law. From the committee, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, will you report? The committee proposes a vote. I'm betting on a vote to call it off. Please cancel the vote. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u121	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, has been opposed to the President, but read the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Department. We need to support the President's proposal. Today the renter cannot dictate the terms of the rent, the owner must dictate and know for himself what the norm is, should be set. That's why the President's proposal is to be supported, voted. Believe me, this is for the benefit of the State, and the State is renting rents, so we have to vote in favour of this rule. Believe me, I've never supported the President, but he's right here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u122	I am voting for a motion by the committee to repeal the Ukrainian Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Act on Rent of State and Municipal Property. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:29:47]] For 272 The law has been revoked. I'm introducing the Ukrainian Seed and Vegetable Material Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 15.11.2002. Please, is Oleg Ivanovich Yuhnowski there? Where? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u123	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues. In October, we passed the Seed and Gardening Act with you, and now the President has returned it with proposals. I'll just give you a second. The first of these is the inclusion in the section "The Final Positions" of the Ukrainian Seed and Garden Material Act of 1993 on the loss of validity of the Ukrainian Seed Act. Second remark. Adjustment of the provisions of paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions concerning the amendment of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity with a view to their proper alignment with the numbering of the article of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee has considered these proposals, considers them well founded, deserves support, and asks for support to be given to the stated law with the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u124	I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of the Ukrainian Seed Law and garden material, taking into account the proposals of the Ukrainian President, which are supported by the committee. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[17:31:40]] For 323 The law is passed. I would like to announce the Ukrainian International Contracts Act with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 5.04.2002. Please, Igor Ivanovich Ostas. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the President's proposals very seriously, and most of them, I would like to point out, are taken into account. Only a few moments remain to be insisted on by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He actually voted to leave the previous law. In particular, it is a matter of leaving a statement in the text of the law. as a unilateral act by which the parties to an international treaty express their interpretation or understanding of its provisions and from which they do not have international legal consequences. Such statements have been made repeatedly in the ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of many international treaties, that is, we already have this practice in Ukraine. And I would like this practice to remain in the text of the law. The next moment. The point is also to leave the text of the law as follows: the State authorities listed in part six of this article at the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or its committees and in the terms defined by them provide additional information concerning the draft law on the ratification of an international treaty. This is a perfectly normal norm that will allow MPs to become more familiar with the text of international treaties. Another president's amendment or proposal has been rejected. It refers to such a text. "At the request of the authorities applying Ukraine's international treaties, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides information on issues arising from the implementation of Ukraine's international treaties." And finally, another is article 28th -- control over the implementation of this law and of the country's international agreements -- the President of Ukraine suggested that the second part of this article be excluded -- about parliamentary control. But this part, this article, is completely written in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and with the legislation of Ukraine, so the committee insists on leaving the article or part of the article on parliamentary control in its entirety, as it was adopted earlier. And last of all, in part 1 of article 22 on page 17 of the table, the words "by decision" have to be replaced by the words "by submission," and I would like to write it to the protocol. IT IS an editorial law, it is not a substantive one, but it refines the text, it improves the text of the Law on International Contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, you understand the committee's proposal. So the proposal is to adopt a law in the new edition, taking into account some of the President's proposals. It's also supported by the Science and Experimental Authority. I am voting on the adoption of Ukraine's law on international agreements in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. Please vote, Your Honor. For, for, for. [[17:35:14]] For 332 The law in the new edition was adopted. Dear colleagues, we have to consider the Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation with the President's proposals of 06.10.2000. There's a conclusion from the Science and Experimental Authority. Now, we're going to listen to the committee, but the Scientific and Expert Office and the Legal Department are saying that, given the comments they made there, the draft law needs to be further developed by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and submitted for review to the Supreme Council. The committee won't insist. Oh, no? Then we give the commission to the committee to review it again. No objections? Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. There was an insistence on some laws to keep us tolerant, and I'll put it to a vote. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions is being submitted to you for special merit before Ukraine on the partial transfer of pension assignments to the locale. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. This is 2403. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of this bill's draft. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:36:52]] For 275 That's 275, that's a decision. Is there no objection to accepting this whole project as a law? Please vote. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[17:37:21]] For 247 For 247, the law's been passed. Yes, dear colleagues, we're working on it. Here we have for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. There's a whole package here. Huh? I'm sorry, I got confused here. Out of procedure, please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u127	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have this proposal. Let us now vote on all the bills for inclusion in the agenda, put them into the agenda, and then let us go, so to speak, to consider those that are most important, and we will consider them further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, this is how I propose. Dear colleagues, let's go this way. We're not going to discuss the inclusion of the agenda, they're already draft laws that will go to the third session. Let's take care of the ones we've got in the day-to-day. And there they will go into the agenda for the third session. Is there no objection? Now I propose. Out of procedure, please, the People's Deputy of Potapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u129	Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is a bill of 2544, which now awaits all areas, all cities and areas, he has agreed with the Government and has been approved. The time is running out and the likelihood that it will not be considered is very high. I would like to make an exception and give me an opportunity to report. 2544 in amending the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u130	What chapter is this? Where is the inclusion in the agenda? Well, where is he, what number again? 2544. We have to find him. Give me this document. Where? Dear colleagues, we need to put it on the agenda, right? It's where "Our Ukraine" backs up, and Philenko comes up to me, and he keeps it hot. Well, let's go on a date. Well, we're going to vote now. I'm asking you to do this. Dear colleagues, right here, let's work quickly now, we'll make all the decisions. We must now vote in favour of the short-term draft of the National Civil Aviation Safety Programme Act. The committee suggests accepting it as a basis for continuing to work with it. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft law on the National Civil Aviation Safety Programme. Please vote. [[17:40:52]] For 343 For 343. Dear colleagues, next document. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the creation and functioning of special free economic zones and the introduction of special investment regimes in priority areas. The committee's proposing a rejection. So maybe, let's put it off, let the committee study it again. We're putting it off, aren't we? Vote? I'll put it to a vote. For reasons, please, Ivancho.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u131	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm making an offer. Taking into account the comments of the Committee and the National Deputies and our faction, move the matter to a third session.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u132	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u133	2077.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u134	Do you have any objection when asked to move it? Let's do it then. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? The offer is to postpone consideration. So let's postpone. Dear colleagues! We'll be able to vote, let's postpone if there's an offer like that. All right, let's put it down. The draft law on the introduction into some Ukrainian legislation of taxation in connection with the creation of a special economic zone in Zacarpatja. Is that what we're putting away? Ivancho, please. Because the committee's offering to take it as a foundation. Please, Ivancho.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u135	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The committee was rejected by the government, and 2077/1 was put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u136	Vote? The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Please vote. [[17:43:21]] For 185 The decision is not taken. I want, once again, my dear colleagues, the first bill is the committee's proposal -- it's number 2077 -- to reject. We're just putting it off so that now, in a hurry, we don't cause any problems. The second bill, number 2070-1, is the committee's proposal to accept as a basis. So I put it to a vote and I ask you to vote. Please vote. [[17:44:20]] For 257 For -257, the decision is made. I'm voting on the bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act to prohibit advertising when making movies and movies. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. Let's vote -- then for reasons. Please vote. [[17:44:53]] For 358 For 358, the decision is made. People's deputy Ivancho with motive. Then Tomenko. Just make it quick. The point of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u137	Thank you. I'd like to add, "and during concert programs."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u138	It's too late. Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, there is a committee proposal. This is literally about the three words that we have just voted on. Vote in general. It's just that we've just voted not to interrupt movies with anons, which are also a kind of adverts. So there's a committee proposal in general to vote on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u140	Is there no objection? I'll put it to a vote. Please accept, as a whole, the adoption of Law 1117. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:45:55]] For 338 ZA - 338, law passed. I'm voting on the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2002. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a vote on acceptance on the basis of this project. Please vote. [[17:46:30.]] For 265 For -265. So what do we have to do? Alexander Alexander Moroz, please. For 265, the decision is made. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there are a number of bills that relate to making changes to today's draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u142	There's something wrong with hearing. Now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, here's a whole series of drafts that actually refer to the budget sequester of this year. Four days before the end of the financial year, such things could actually be done by placing Parliament’s head under those sequestres, perhaps not. So it would be better not to consider the matter at all, not to include it in the order of the day. The Governing Body knew what he was doing, and why did his sins take place on the shoulders of the Supreme Council? I think that would be correct in all respects.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is Project 1309 we voted in favour of the committee. And now there are three projects, this is the number, I beg your attention, listen up! 2057, 2157 and 2175, which the committee proposes to reject. So here we have to vote in favour of the committee's proposal, so I'm voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2002. The committee's proposal is to reject. I'll put him to the vote. About the deviation! There's a document. [[17:48:51]] For-173 Please, National Deputy Zvaric. We vote on the committee's proposals, not on our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u145	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I apologize immediately, but if so, the MPs do not know what they are voting for. So the point is, if the bill doesn't get 226 votes, it's considered rejected, so you don't have to make a motion to reject a bill. We just have to put the bill on the vote. If he has not obtained a suitable number of votes, he is considered rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u146	Adam Ivanovich, right? Okay. Dear colleagues, this is how we do things. I'm voting for the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2002 is draft number 2057 of the People's Deputies of Swidenko. [[17:50:08]] For-80 Project rejected. The second document is submitted for consideration. The draft law amending the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2002 is number 2157, the national deputies of Rahanski, Kravchuk, Osika, Rizaka. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance on the basis of this project. Please vote. [[17:50:46]] For-167 The decision is not taken. I am introducing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2002, No. 2175. This is a project implemented by the People's Deputy Kalinczuk and Klimov. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance on the basis of this project. Please vote. [[17:51:19]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Please, Matvienkov, then Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u147	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I have a strong request to consider and vote in favour of the inclusion of Bill 2209 in the agenda, a bill amending the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. Why? We will listen to you, hold parliamentary hearings on the state of the environment. It is a bill that plans to resolve the arrangements for the allocation of funds. I see Mr. Rabbit has already raised his hand, so to speak. I understand he's absolutely against it. But let's be honest in the hall and talk. We ask that it now be placed in the agenda in order to clearly allocate how environmental funding is being developed and where are they going, and how are they being spent? That's why I'm asking you to turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u148	Okay. What's the number again?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u149	2209.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u150	Please, Rabbit. Well, we're about to get into a discussion here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u151	I think if you look at this bill, you have to look at it very carefully. We can't just put it in the agenda so we can just vote. There are many suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u152	The question is not about the vote, about the inclusion in the agenda, so that it will be present at this session.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u153	Sessions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u154	I'm voting to include in the agenda of the third session a draft law under number 2209. Please vote. Just turn it on. Please vote. [[17:53:14]] For 226 Decision taken. Rudzkowski, please. Let's go as planned, we'll get through.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u155	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I gave you Bill 2087, the same procedure for the 2002 budget, making changes. Let's include the same thing in this session. Please. Same thing, it's dealt out, 2087 from the 20th.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this right now: now we're going to put an end to this change, because the budget is already in place, and we're going to define the hall, and we're not going to be looking at these bills anymore. I put to the vote the day-to-day draft of Law 2087 is the People's Deputy of Lithuania, not me, but the other, my one-familiar, about the inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[17:54:20]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Yeah, let's move on. National MP Tsuko, please. We'll be right there. Let's work. National MP Tsushko, Socialist faction. We agreed that we would vote now, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u157	Vladimir Mihajlovich, we need to put it on the agenda. He was on the agenda today. 1027 Customs Bill. And consider 2256. These laws are necessary because, with effect from 1 January, these laws are suspended, tariffs alone will be necessary for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u158	National MP Zvaric. Let's vote better. We're all voting on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u159	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I pay my dues to my colleague Tsuko for a rather cunning approach. The point is that Bill 1027 on the amendment to the customs tariff has already been considered. You, Vladimir Mikhailovich, put him to the vote three times, and he didn't get the right number of votes. So it's considered rejected in this session. That's why I'm insisting that you don't take this offer, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, because it's going to be a gross violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u160	Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u161	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I'd like you to pay attention to the electronic board that says: it's now 17 o'clock 56 minutes. We've adopted a lot of drafts with you today, and we've actually accepted them more than we could possibly accept. Now each group, each group wants to jump into the last train car. We've only got one plenary week left to work with you, and we haven't seen about two or three hundred more bills. Now everyone wants to get one of their own drafts involved. I would suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have every reason to close the evening session now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u162	Dear colleagues, I ask you one more question, let's vote now, we still have this document. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2002 is the last to pay off the debt for heating and water supply. The committee proposes to accept the project as a matter of law. Is there no objection? I'm voting on putting it into the agenda. Please vote. [[17:57:34]] For 251 For 251. Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt this project as a whole as a law. Please vote. I beg of you, Your Honor, vote. [[17:57:57]] For 237 For 237, sir. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and the last project, if we don't accept it, we're in trouble with the SAT. This is where the Minister of Economics asks us to vote and we're done here. This is project 2256-1 on amending the customs tariff of Ukraine. I'm making an offer. If you refuse, we won't vote. Please, have a few words. I was wrong, no one there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u163	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Project 2256, because 2256-1 is the Zarubinski Oleg, it's a little bit about other things, it's about children's toys. This is about customs tariffs for goods of light industry 2256. If we don't accept this bill, next year we're going to have problems with the easy industry. I'm asking you to accept him right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u164	What's the committee's offer? So we're supposed to take it as a base now? Please, National Deputy Tsushko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u165	The Committee on Finance decided on Law 2256 to support y on first and second reading. That is why Meneconomy and I are in solidarity and have passed the mythical council and we support it. Please vote on first reading and second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u166	I'll bet the vote on the inclusion of this project in the agenda. Please vote. [[18:00:01]] For 341 It's on. I'm voting for acceptance in the first reading. Please vote. [[18:00:23]] For 325 Decision taken. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a whole as a law. Please vote. [[18:00:44]] For 315 ZA - 315, decision taken. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you so that you may appeal to the Constitutional Court. You realize that without considering the first reading at all without the possibility of taking any amendments into account, it's not the Rules, and it's not the constitutional adoption of laws. I draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Lithuania to the fact that such violations cannot be allowed. I reserve the right to prepare a constitutional appeal against all laws adopted contrary to the Constitution. Why do we spend our time and the Rules for which we do so? It's a campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m1.u168	Those questions that we have not voted on, I would ask that we vote on them tomorrow. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. Thank you for your productive work.
