ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, distinguished guests, representatives of the media! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn the system on. There are 392 national deputies registered in the hall. The May 23 morning session is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Burjak Alexandre Vasilovich. Let's welcome our colleague on his birthday. [[Applause]] Thank you. The word for information is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u2	Member of the Bureau of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! Let me inform you about the process of negotiation, the meetings and the final agreement that we have just made with the faction leaders. It's suggested that our next job, at least in the near future, be built this way. Four factions asked for the opportunity to work another hour. The leaders of the two factions agreed with this proposal, and it is therefore proposed that now, if we announce a break, the leaders of the four factions continue consultations. We also agreed to make this announcement: at 10 o'clock, 15 minutes, the faction of our Ukraine and the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko are meeting in the conference room for consultation. [[It's the four faction leaders' arrangement.]] At 10 p.m., 45 minutes of consultation, the heads of all six factions gather. If we accept this order of work, at 11 o'clock we will continue our session. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can call four factions. The thing is, everyone probably understands what four factions are, but if there are questions, please don't deny it and call four and two factions for more information. The factions of our Ukraine, the Communist Party, the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Socialist Party have asked to work in such a regime, and the factions of Ukraine and the Social Democrats have supported the proposal of four factions. [[United]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to take a break by 11 o'clock, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, then, so that I don't have any doubts, let's vote on any proposals. I'll call it an 11-hour break. Thank God you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! I learned that there were 323 deputies in the hall. I think we're gonna believe this, and we're gonna keep working for a few minutes. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the negotiation process is going on, and I think it's going to be more or less successful. Those two factions that you see are not in the room are gathered together and are now holding quite active consultations. They asked for another half hour to complete these consultations, and we will likely have some results and will be able to continue our work. I mean, if you don't mind, you have to take another half-hour off.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u6	From your reaction, I see you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please sit down, distinguished national MPs! Our Ukraine factions, please sit down. I'm sorry I'm late. But with what did we come? With packages. [[Applause]] Not with those packages. We're continuing our work. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the procedure for considering the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I give the floor to the National Deputy Rudzikowski, who made his proposals. Mikolo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u8	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that the leaders of the four factions, taking two recesses today, agreed on two packages, Martinyuk, Immortal, Timoshenko, and Immortal, Martinyuk, Nikolayenko, - although the packages I have proposed also contain names of people worthy to organize the work of the Supreme Council and move the situation out of place, I am withdrawing my draft decrees under headings 1067-1 and 1067-2. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u9	Please don't disturb me. I beg you! Mikola Mikolaiovich speaks the way he should speak. Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u10	I think these "four" proposals are the way out of the deadlock, which today, we see, has continued. We have to move on -- let's move on to the vote. Nevertheless, I believe that the projects that I have implemented have stimulated the work of faction leaders, and I call upon the deputies who were first elected to the Supreme Council to become more active in working with their faction leaders. And the faction leaders should be involved in the negotiating process of party leaders who enter the blocs so that they do not have to convince more factions of the need to make arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u11	Thank you, Santa Claus. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Questions to Rudzkowski? Wait a minute, Mikolo Mikolaiovich. Please sign up for the questions. Sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u12	I just don't know if it's appropriate for me to answer questions about the draft regulations that I'm taking off my registration? Am I saying it right? Let's not waste time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u13	Mikolo Mikolaiovich, thank you. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! Under the headings 1067-3 and 1067-4, there are two ballots for the election of the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. They're being circulated, they're about to be handed out. I'll read them to you so we don't lose time. I think you'll let me do that. Project 1067-3 is being implemented by the national deputies Yushchenk, Moroz, Simonenko and Timoshenko. It is proposed to elect the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Immortal Roman Petrovich, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko, Yulia Volodymyrovna. This is the first package. The second package, number 1067-4, is submitted by the same national deputies Yushchenk, Moroz, Simonenko and Timoshenko. It is proposed to elect the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, the Immortal Roman Petrovich, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Stanislav Mikolaiovich. We have a procedure. In accordance with the decision I have announced to you, there should be a presentation of the given packets. Which of the initiators will speak for the first packet - 1067-3? Please. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Our head of the Counting Commission is already concerned. Please turn on Mishura Valery Dmitrovich’s microphone first.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u16	The head of the interim Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I have an offer for you and the Counting Commission. If the candidates whose names are included in the packets do not intend to withdraw their candidatures, that is, if the packages remain, allow the Counting Commission to proceed with the preparation of the documents. It'll just speed it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u17	Valery Dmitrovich, I think you're right. And I immediately ask all of the candidates listed for the positions listed below: Does anyone withdraw their candidacy? No, it's not. Beautiful. Let's get back to work. The reckoning commission can already work. Please. Valery Dmitrovic, where are the members of the committee going to meet? Do they know? Thank God! Members of the Counting Commission, please gather at your designated location. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u18	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! During the lengthy consultations that took place between the leaders of two, four and six factions in various configurations, we tried to find agreed proposals that would unite the hall, form a majority, and enable us to choose the leadership of the Supreme Council. These negotiations took place in a tense environment, and it is clear that each faction stood up for its position. As we discussed a possible project of four factions, we Communists came out of this kind of thinking. First. We took into account that during the elections more than 60 percent of voters voted against the course being held in the state, and we supported precisely those political forces that in their campaign made a clear statement against this course and claimed that they were opposed to today’s regime. [[This was the result of the vote.]] We felt that we should compromise, and it was these long - term conversations that enabled us to find him. We now claim that the Communist Party faction is compromising. We spoke from the very beginning for negotiations on equal, parity principles. During the four of us talks, we found a compromise, and it was the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine that offered this compromise. The representatives of the faction "Our Ukraine" agreed with our proposals. And this opened up the possibility of introducing today's agreed packages. The other one. During the negotiations, there was a dispute over some candidates. We, the Communist faction, and here we met, and it was also a compromise on our part. We offered to select Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk as Head of the Supreme Council, and other factions to submit to our package what they would consider necessary. That's why we're bringing to the Supreme Voting Council today a package that is proposed by the Head of the Supreme Council to choose Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, and the alternate candidates who were offered by the other factions who supported this package. We invite all the national MPs to vote for this package today, despite certain circumstances in which some of the people’s provosts are present. And once again, I want to assure you that because of the conflicting interests in the Supreme Council, we Communists are able to ensure the cooperation of the entire composition of the Supreme Council. Thank you and offer to support our package. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u19	Peter Mikolaiovich, if you'd like to stop, there might be some questions for you. Any questions to Peter Mikolaiovich? Yes, there is. There's no one on one side, there's no one on the other side. Please sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! This is the presentation of the package, and Peter Mikolaiovich has to answer the questions if they are. Please explain the list. Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich. Please. Take five minutes. Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u20	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Peter Mikolaiovich, we are very glad that the long and difficult negotiations have ended so successfully and that the political leaders who entered the bloc of four have found strength in themselves, balanced their positions and compromised for the benefit of Ukraine, for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. And we are grateful to all the people's deputies -- members of the faction of Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka "Our Ukraine", the factions of the Communist Party, the factions of the Socialist Party for their constructive approach. Question: "What are the results of the vote?" Is there any hope that democracy will prevail in Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u21	Oleg Grigorovich, thank you for the questions, but this depends not only on the political situation that has arisen in general in the state, but also on the influence that, unfortunately, we feel today from the administration of the President and the authorities, and on the will of the people's deputies. If all these three elements today are taken into account by each of the national MPs, if each of us asks ourselves in person, which we will then be responsible for developments in the state, then I am convinced that this is exactly what will happen today. I hope so, and I ask everyone to be guided by a sense of personal responsibility for the future and for the Supreme Council, and for Ukraine as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u22	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u23	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Indeed, today, within one or two hours, we can form a full-time presidency and start a fruitful work on the draft legislation. And I took the floor not to ask Petra Nikolaevich a question, but to call on my fellow members of the people, regardless of their political convictions, to join the fateful decision of the four factions who, despite differences in political views, found a general solution to the issue and to vote in favour of the proposed package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u24	Thank you. Barani's Alexander Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u25	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! We, the Socialists, support the package that you have proposed, and we take on the same political responsibility for the conduct of Parliament and the entire Parliament. I would ask all honourable deputies to support this package. The point is that Parliament's leadership is not left-wing, not right-wing, but, in my opinion, compromising and consolidating. And from here, I have a question for you, Peter Mikolaiovich: do you personally agree with the faction of Communists after the election of Parliament's leadership, all of this will be made by an appropriate agreement, which was proposed by the four to make this cooperation more constructive in the future?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u26	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. It seems to me that your question already contains the answer to what position the Communist faction has consistently and consistently stood for over the last eight years of our work or cooperation in the Supreme Council. I also draw your attention to the fact that we are pleased to have responded to the fact that today the representatives of the various political forces that have joined the factions of "Our Ukraine", "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block", have understood and supported those positions that we held in the Supreme Council a few years ago: both with regard to electoral laws, and with regard to the responsibility of the local authorities to the people and the electorates who choose this authority in the regions, and with regard to the cooperation of the government and the Supreme Council, when we have proposed that the government be subordinated to the Supreme Council and be accountable jointly to the legislative body and the executive body for all that is being done in the state. [[means a proportional election system to the Supreme Council]] When we suggested moving in the democratic direction of state-building, we were asked to have a parliamentary-presidential republic with limited Presidential functions and expanded capabilities of the defenders of the people who represent the will of the people here in the Supreme Council, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, to resolve the most painful, pressing issues that concern our voters. So we've responded positively to the fact that we've supported the positions of our party and the factions that we've stood up for in the Supreme Council for the past eight years. Thank you, Alexander Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u27	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich Please. Everything, the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u28	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! I'm finally going to ask a question without a declaration, like it was three times before me. That's my question. Your last name is on the two draft regulations given to us at the same time. It's a configuration that's in one project of determinations that's quite different in the other. How do you simultaneously submit two projects in which you formulate otherwise, let's say, do you suggest the composition of the Presidium? That's the first one. The other one. How do you react to the efforts of those forces that you want to see alongside your representative today, to ban the Company, to restore UNUPA, which, I know, the Communists have always been quite active? Are there any positions here, or are these some other positions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u29	Regarding the configuration of two packets. First of all, we're bringing our package first to the vote of the people's deputies and calling for a vote for it. [[Martinyuk leads this package]] I would like to stress again: in our search for compromise, we agreed not to make warnings about individual candidates from other factions, even though they were, are and remain. But we sought compromise so that the Supreme Council would continue to work. And we've just shown our compromise by making this package. It's about the second packet. In view of the fact that we really need to look for a solution to the problem that has to do with the leadership of the Supreme Council, we agreed that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's proposal for a solution was also in the package that introduces "Our Ukraine". I don't see any contradictions here. As for the political position of those or other political parties that came to the Supreme Council. In this case, with regard to what you're talking about, the position of our party remains principled, and we're not changing it. If someone asks the questions that you're talking about here, we're going to stand firm and we're also going to call on everyone to be categorical, principled and consistent not only by March 31st, but also after March 31st, based on the freedom of the electorate, the will that allowed us here to address the most difficult development issues of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u30	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Everything, the time taken to answer, is over. Who among the national deputies who introduced the project in which the Immortal Roman Petrovich’s candidacy for the position of Head of the Supreme Council will be presented? Victor Andryovich Yushchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u31	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! This is a draft Supreme Council ruling, representing the faction "Our Ukraine". Of course, we're different -- 450 people's deputies sitting in this room. But politics teaches us that every day we have to give opportunities for understanding. We need to make combinations that show that we should at least be smarter at night than we were in the morning, including the issue of political compromises. When we formed our package, we came out of a series of important moments for us. First of all, we need to start working in Parliament. Secondly, we need to put forward candidates who would be ready for an open dialogue that would not divide the hall into two or three parts but would be capable of political compromise. After all, these must be people who have experience in lawmaking. This is the basis for the formation of the list that is presented to you: to elect the Head of the Supreme Council of the Immortal Roman Petrovich, the First Deputy, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. We are also convinced that this is a harmonious reflection of the political results of the March 31st elections this year. As a result of these four positions, we, the distinguished national MPs, ask you to support this version of the Supreme Council's draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u32	Thank you. Will Victor Andryovich have any questions? You don't? Thank you, Victor Andryovich. No questions asked. Is it? Please. Victor Andryovich! Dear National Deputies! Signal if you want to ask questions. There's a question. Please sign in. I asked you not to raise your hand. Sign up. National Deputy Yeshchenko Volodymyr Mikolayovich. Please. The next one is the National Deputy of School.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u33	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. That's my question. Victor Andryovich, why didn't you tell me about the first package? There is also the Immortal's candidacy as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, and your signature is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! When Peter Mikolaiovich reported on the concept of forming the first package, he expressed the understandings that had been reached in previous negotiations. So I thought that we had replaced each other's information. And that's why I didn't say it for that reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u35	National MP, School Andriy Vasilovich. Please. Prepare for Rudkovsky Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u36	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 121, Lviv region]] Mr. Victor, I thank you, of course, for the cooperation that has been and the tolerance that has been shown in the negotiation process. And I hope that in the future all the arrangements, all the directions of our joint activity will be followed. The only thing I want to know is to ask. In due time, there was a promise that the political prisoners who are currently behind bars would be released or that their question would be dealt with objectively and positively. Now the trial is adjourned, the judge is ill. I'd like you to answer whether in the future, when your candidate leads the Supreme Council, the word will be kept and the situation will be dealt with objectively on March 9th? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u37	I would say that the issues related to political persecution have also been addressed within the framework of our agreement. The draft agreement highlights this issue. I hope that these issues will be effectively, consistently, effectively defended in the walls of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u38	Rudzkowski Mikolaiovich. Please. Prepare Bandurci Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u39	Dear Victor Andryovich! On several occasions, media outlets have reported that our Ukraine insists that our Ukraine be appointed Prime Minister Victor Andriyovich Yushchenko. Don't you think that's a tactical mistake, because even if you're appointed Prime Minister, the President will do anything to discredit you and the ideas that have been associated with you? Do you not consider it appropriate to focus on the work of the Supreme Council, to make sure that your faction votes for the first and second packets in full stock, and by unlocking the process, from the Supreme Council to start reforms in the state by amending the Constitution and so forth? Wouldn't that be more productive -- change of power?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u40	Thank you. Let me put it this way. There was no name for Yushchenka as Prime Minister. Your Honor, listen to me. I'm in a place where I'm right now. But that's not what this is about. The point is that we want to see the process of political elections complete. The faction of the "Our Ukraine" bloc believes that the political elections do not end with the election of three seats in the parliament walls. If the executive power is not formed adequately by the political forces that have formed Parliament, we will never have an active tandem: Parliament and government. So when we were negotiating with the block, "For the One Ukraine!"we've come out of the fact that when the speaker's position is taken over by a candidate from the bloc, "For the One Ukraine!"for us it is absolutely right to have a priority right to nominate the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because we understand this by not sharing the portfolios, we are looking for a balance of power, a balance of political forces. So we followed that logic in the negotiations, and we stand in that position. When it comes to a dialogue with the block, "For the One Ukraine!'that's our position and that's an honest position. Who's going to be Prime Minister, which block is another question. But we just insist that there should be a right to nominate a candidate from the "Our Ukraine" bloc. That's the logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u41	Alexander Markovich Bandurka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u42	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 176, Kharkiv Region]] "The Unity of Ukraine." [[The Sound in the Hall]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u43	Well, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u44	You're gonna give me this time. Dear Victor Andryovich! Why are you offering two packets at once? Is it the unbelief in the very agreement of the four leaders that they will keep their positions? That's the first one. The other one. Why does Mr. Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich’s signature stand for the third, not the first, or second, in this list? Third. Do your coalition partners support the projections you have proposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u45	Dear National Deputies! Don't bother, they'll back you up. [[Applause]] You know where my signature is, I really don't give it any meaning. You realize that it's an internal policy, it's an internal arrangement. Why do these two packets go and whose signature stands, well, honorable. A juchenka in a bag in a visa is performing in an avant-garde. And in the second packet in the visas of the communists in the vanguard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u46	Thank you, Victor Andryovich, time is up. Now, under the procedure of dealing with the issue, we only have to give 10 minutes to candidates for the presidency of the Supreme Council. Do you want to ask Adam Ivanovich a question? Raise your hands, please, or you will say again that you have not spoken. All right, all right. Roman Petrovich Immortal. Please. Ten minutes to ask. Please sign up for the question. Let me explain. Ten minutes, please. Solomatin Yuri Petrovich. Please. Get Philenck ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u47	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Roman Petrovich, please tell us if you are elected as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to treat the deputy corps as John Stepanovich Plush did, will you carry out your duties as is the case with the Speaker of Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u48	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Yuri Petrovich! I cannot and do not have the right to appreciate the conduct of the Chief of the Supreme Council or any of my colleagues, because hundreds and thousands of votes are behind each of us. But in nine years of our work together, in five years of working with you, I think you saw me working with people. So, as you can understand, we're all the same here, we've all been chosen by the people. And it doesn't matter who holds the positions that we have to have. I would like to quote you from the same John Stepanovich Plush, who in his own time said that every position in the Supreme Council is a little bit more work than a private deputy. And every next job is even more work. So when I walk around, I realize that there's a lot of work ahead, and the relationship between different partners, between different political forces, has to be absolutely tolerant. We need to finally understand that we need to fight not people, not people who have ideas. You can argue, you can deny, but you don't have to destroy people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u49	Vladimir Philipovich Philenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u50	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Without special difirambs, however, I would like to point out that in the event of Roman Petrovich's election, we will have a speaker of the Supreme Council for the first time, not the Chief of the Supreme Council, prepared professionally. Roman Petrovich, do you imagine a complex of work on how to organize parliamentary activities to improve working conditions both in the session room itself and outside the session hall? And do you realize that you have to give priority and better accommodations to not the Supreme Council's staff, but to the Ukrainian National Deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u51	Thank you, Volodymyr Philipovich. I know quite well what a material and technical base is that is equipped with the Supreme Council. I can say that, given the number of deputies and the role of Ukraine in Europe, it is one of the weakest. That's right. And in the fact that we haven't been able to provide the Parliamentary and Deputies with the necessary conditions of activity in ten years, starting with this room and the workplaces, it's everyone who represents the Ukrainian authorities, because, I say again, there are people sitting here who don't represent themselves -- they represent hundreds, thousands of their constituents. It's our electorate's job, and I want to say it's probably a banal phrase, but it's understandable that cheap power is very expensive for the people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u52	Alexander Markovich Bandurka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u53	Thank you. "The only Ukraine." Roman Petrovich, you know how handsome you are to me as a man and as a deputy. But I have a very interesting question: will you, as Head of the Supreme Council, stand up for the President's line, as we did when we were with you in one faction, have you finally broken the pot with the President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u54	Dear Alexander Markovich! Dear colleagues! I respect the President as the President of the State, as a man chosen by 15 million votes. But if I am elected Head of the Supreme Council, I will represent the Supreme Council in my relations with the President. I won't picture Immortal, I will represent the Supreme Council, represent its decision and its position. As far as the mass of issues discussed here is concerned, my position is my position, and someone might like it, someone might not like it. My task as Heads, if you rob me, is to present your position, including in my relationship with the President, including the issues that are mentioned in the political treaty to which I have a bearing. It's about a key problem. Today we have approached the need for serious reform of the political system. The model that has been in operation to this day has somewhat justified itself, but it has exhausted itself to this day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u55	Chief Sergey Petrovich. Please. Get ready for Wyksentiovich, the Crown Joseph.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u56	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Roman Petrovich! I just want to welcome you, on behalf of the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko, with what you've been put in a single packet for a speaker's position, and wish you, in the event of your election, as Philenko said, be not your head, but your speaker. I'd like to say that you're really not just going to be a speaker yet, but an outgoing speaker, unlike the president that Romano Prodi invited to dinner just out of respect for himself, not in "Mac-Donalds," but at his best restaurant. So I'd like you to be in this position, as a speaker, to break that anti-parliamentary trend that is present on virtually every day on virtually every television channel, and especially on a government that sits on the taxes of the people that we represent.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u57	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. If you'll excuse me, I'll comment on what you've been told. Deputies! I ask you very much: In our relations with one another, in our dealings with people of authority, let us do and speak so that we do not offend one another. That's the first one. The other one. With regard to the air and the broadcast of the work of the Supreme Council. Of course, if we say that the situation in Ukraine today is unsatisfactory, that is not to say yet. There's an open-minded trend assessment of the Supreme Council's activities, and it's not even structured by factions. This is very dangerous, because talking about the political structure of society without the political structure of the ether, which would be represented by one or the other political forces, will never happen. Information today is power, and everyone understands that. By no means in civilized countries, today’s formal model is called an information model. And so, of course, starting with the problems of public television, the law that's adopted and ending with the other problems of air needs to be changed. It needs to be changed not only at the level of disclosure of the Supreme Council’s work but also at the level of journalistic status, at the level of subjects who highlight the problems of the media regime, their financing, their relations with the authorities. I strongly oppose that any authority, any person in power, should have its own media. This is the best discrediting of the individual and of the body that has such a media medium. So my position has always been that there should be a more open demonstration of the positions of every political force, every policy. I'm sorry for commenting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u58	National Deputy of the Vienna Joseph Vicentiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u59	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Roman Petrovich, it is clear that a positive vote on either of these two packages will mean to the President and his environment, that the train has already gone backwards. And in this case, it's going to be an extremely important role for the Head of the Supreme Council as a person who has to perform stability functions and see where the state is going in the future. You've confirmed in your statement that you're in charge of changing the system of power. I'd like to make it clear what are the first steps, in your opinion, we have to take to change the system of power, and in which direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear Joseph Vicentiovich, I represent here not only my position but also the position of the bloc, the position of the faction. The first thing we really need to do is to bind the parliamentary majority and the government, that is, the government should be formed by a parliamentary majority or coalition. That's the key question. The next problem is the system of executive power. You can't go under the Cabinet of Ministers at the constitutional level of administration, but you can actually have them subordinated to the President, because that immediately causes a conflict between the President and the government. The nature of these people's powers is that they are acquired as a result of regional elections. [[I was saying that, and that's my position.]] [[I mean, both district and district.]] As for what should dominate the system of local self - government in the presence of supervisory functions of administrations. The 10-year transition period, when we had to keep control of ownership at regional and local levels, was over. Total privatization has been carried out. There is nothing to control, nothing to manage, there is nothing to supervise the observance of Ukrainian legislation and the Constitution, rather than sowing, harvesting, milking, and so forth as is discussed today. You can't see that even for the people who are there today in management positions, it's a problem because they can't combine these two completely unnatural functions. So these are essential first steps that we should take. With regard to relations with the President. There are people here who are witnessing my relationship with the President. If I had a position, I would say that position whether I was a national MP or a representative of the President. It's another matter that the President has made, but he's in the same position as the President to make a decision. This is not the Head's decision, this is the Supreme Council's decision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u61	I can't help but say a word to Boris Illy. Please, Boris Illihu.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u62	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Roman Petrovich, as you know, after the velvet rebellion and no less than a two-pronged coup in the Supreme Council, there was a dismemberment of the model of a closed vote, a vote that was not open. Don't you think it's one of the most tempting strokes on democracy? Because you and I can vote as much as we want, and those MPs who are there sometimes are afraid to vote as their conscience tells them, and you know why. Shouldn't the old regulations be renewed? That's the first one. The other one. I absolutely support Sergio Petrovich Head of the broadcasts and information about the meetings of the Supreme Council, because people think we're sitting here sharing money. This isn't the first time. And the third. I only want you to be good and happy, and to be healthy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear Boris Illihu! For me, for example, the openness of my position is question number one. I'm not going to hide for any vote or voting methods or anything like that. I've always tried to keep my position open, depending on the level of evidence that I had at one point or another when I was making a decision. My colleagues, speaking of which you said that I know what the means of influencing them are, I always say, "Policy is a big and important profession. And you either have to do politics and be professionals, or you have to do business. If you want to fit each other, the first thing you do when you go from business to politics is you protect your business." Today, we have two groups in the hall, all the businessmen are divided into two parts, which I've been very open about. Some, when harassed, are protected and others trample, and they remain silent. This is what will happen in the coming year. Clearly, we're only shaping our parliamentary democracy, it's growing, it's stopping at the feet, but politics is a big profession, it's just as big a business in every field as a doctor, teacher and all. Therefore, it is necessary to prepare for this profession, to study, and to spend the rest of her life in order, as Boris Illich rightly said, to be free to vote in any way. That's the first one. The other one. Regarding the disclosure of the work of the Supreme Council. I've already put my mind to this. And the third. At 36 years of age, I think it’s too early to complain about health, even though there are situations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u64	I'm sorry. Boris Illych is raising his hand. He might want to talk to you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u65	Roman Petrovich, you gently deviated from the answer by reenacting those under pressure to be businessmen. Businessmen will be redeemed along with some, and that is how they pressure those who try to tell the truth when trials go illegal, you know. In general, democratic voting is not about controlling MPs and blackmail, but in a normal model of voting, name and normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u66	Boris Illich, I'm sorry, I just didn't understand the depth of your question. That's the problem with what I'm talking about. This problem is not only at the level of the Supreme Council, it is at the level of regional councils -- both district councils and district councils. Let us work together to resolve it. I don't know how to solve it yet, let's say, at the district council level or at the level of individual deputies or whatever. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u67	Thank you, Roman Petrovich. Dear National Deputies! Now, according to the procedure, we have to start talking about so-called packets or, more specifically, candidatures. I beg you to shut up! I'm talking about procedure. Do we need to start discussions now? None. Thank you. Is our head of the Counting Commission ready? Valery Dmitrovich! None. I think let's take a little break for ten minutes, let them finish their preparations, and then we give him our word and we go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u68	Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. There's a queue at the tables. Please sit down or you won't make it. The word is given to the head of the Counting Commission of National Deputy Mishuri Valeri Dmitrovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u69	Dear fellow national MPs! Your Honor! The counting committee is ready for the vote. At the registration desks on the basis of a presentation of a parliamentary certificate, you receive a pink ballot. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, Immortal Roman Petrovich, Timoshenko Julius Volodymyrna, was introduced into the bulletin. There's an empty square against these three names to mark your will. Below, I don't support this option. Anyone who votes against it has to make a mark here. I'd like to pay attention to the fact that we have lists at the registration desks. Unfortunately, not all of us have registered at tables, and we cannot tell who is, who is not. We have lists of those in the hospital. True, I see that so many who are in the hospital have come to the vote. That's very nice. The vote will begin at 13 p.m. for 21 minutes and will continue as decided by the 45 - minute Counting Commission. Please proceed to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u70	Break, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u71	Please take your seats in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Dear National Deputies! The word is given to the head of the provisional Mishuri Valeri Dmitrovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! Allow me to introduce you to the minutes of the meeting of the Provisional Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since May 23, 2002. All members of the provisional Committee of Thought are present. They heard about the conclusion of the secret vote on the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ballot papers included the following candidates: Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, Immortal Roman Petrovich, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the interim Counting Commission established: The number of Ukrainian national deputies whose credentials are recognized is 441; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 441; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote is 151. The number of ballots declared invalid is not. The detection of foreign objects is 12. The package was voted 149. We didn't support option 2. According to part of the first article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the interim Counting Commission decided to consider the unelected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of the Immortal Roman Petrovich, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Timoshenko Julius Volodymyrovna. The signatures of the members of the Temporary Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! Is there a question? Please sign up. Buiko Georgi Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u74	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Communist Party of Ukraine. I ask you to pass the word Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u75	Please. National MP Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Valery Dmitryevich, I have a question. On what grounds did the interim Commission of Auditors usurp power and not give me, as a national MP, the opportunity to throw a ballot in the urn? Answer me that question. And I think there will be at least 70 to 75 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u77	I'm in. We have considered this issue at the meeting of the Commission of Auditors. That was the precedent. We have made a decision. The accounting commission shall determine the voting time: beginning and end. We started the vote at 13.21 and ended at 2.05 p.m. This was invented by the interim Commission of Auditors. In accordance with the Rules, the Provisional Commission of Auditors shall establish the order, time and place of voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u78	Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u79	I have a question. Who personally prevented the people’s deputies from throwing ballots into the urns? Answer me, name me. And the offer. Part 2 of Article 3.6. 9 of the Supreme Council's Rules: "In the event of a violation of the voting procedure or of an obstacle during its conduct, a re-voting without discussion shall be immediately carried out." I demand re-voting on behalf of the faction without discussion. And what are the names of the members of the Temporary Counting Commission that have cynically prevented the duty of a national MP from voting? Dozens of such deputies. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u80	I'm answering. The Supreme Council of Ukraine can decide on the recognition of the elections that have just taken place is the will of the Supreme Council, you can vote. But what I'm trying to say is that no one has stopped anyone from voting during the period that was set aside -- from 13.21 to 14.05. You know, after the vote is over, the Counting Commission seals all the boxes, their holes, where they throw the ballot papers, and puts them in a special room. After the urns were placed in the room, several more ballots were brought. We might consider these problems, but the MP who was prevented from dropping the ballot was to explain to the Counting Commission why he was late. It could be that. But the deputies who brought them were gone, they put the ballots on the table, and they left the room. This can be confirmed by the members of the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u81	National MP Rudzkowski Mikolaajovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u82	Please give the floor to the head of the Socialist Party of Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u83	Please turn on the microphone of Aleksandra Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u84	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Valery Dmitrovich! During the last election campaign and during the vote here, there were so many interesting precedents in the session room that they could be used as analogs. We know that there was a vote in 1998, as in 2000, as the Earth Code voted, and it's no different than other voting objects, until 9 o'clock in the evening in a separate office, not here. So if one of the deputies has not been able to drop his ballot and there are several dozen of them, do you not consider it necessary to vote in favour of the session room, to vote on the package that has been voted on, the ballots that have not been corrupted, but simply failed to drop in at the right time, and thus to raise the risk or re-vote? [[We saw that the tightness was, and everything else, we know that because there were tight booths, even the courts found the election invalid, for example, in District 18, etc.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. The interim Counting Commission has dealt with this issue democratically, and members of the interim Counting Commission can confirm it. It was decided not to count these ballots and simply destroy them. This decision was carried out by the Provisional Committee of Counties.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u86	Please. Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u87	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine." Please give my word to my colleague at the Rephat Chubarov faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u88	Please. Turn on the microphone for Chubarov’s reflux.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u89	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you. Dear Valery Dmitrovich! Questions to you and to the honourable Presidency. Don't you think it's appropriate to start the second ballot without a big break? At the same time, I ask the Bureau to consider this matter a proposal and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u90	As for the second packet, I can tell you that we have the ballots ready, but they were going to print 460 ballots, and they turned out to be 457. That is, the provisional Commission of Counties is still to be determined where the three ballots were distributed, whether they were, or, for example, to foresee additional protection measures in the ballots. So there's a problem here. I just want to say one thing to everyone who asks a question: the Supreme Council can make any decision, including if a vote is needed. But what I'm trying to say is that all the members of the Interim Counting Commission work openly, out loud and honestly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u91	Please turn on the microphone for Rudzkowski’s replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u92	There's a suggestion that we don't press the situation in the hall. You know, a few dozen men didn't vote, the commission didn't give us that opportunity, we can't move on at this rate. We have to vote on the first package. And please put this motion to the vote. You can't move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u93	Thank you. I can attest to the fact that 441 deputies have taken the ballot, and only 151 have voted. They did not invest in the period of time set by the provisional Counting Commission. If we have to make an hour to vote, the provisional Committee of Counts can do so. There's no problem, we'll discuss this at a meeting of the Provisional Committee of the Counting Commission. If the Supreme Council decides now that this package needs to be re-voted, the interim Counting Commission will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u94	Please. I've got Masenko here. And then Lukyanenko. The last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u95	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] I support Rudzkowski's proposal. Indeed, if there was such a conflict with the vote, there might be a need to vote. Put this question to a vote -- which decision will be taken in the hall, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u96	Please. National Deputy Lukjanenko Levko Grigorović
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u97	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Your Honor! The Honourable Head of the Temporal Counting Commission! We see that the voting term was small. There were incredible queues in the corridor, we pushed each other, then someone went to lunch, in a word, there were conditions under which there could be no normal will of the deputies. Therefore, on behalf of our faction, I propose to vote and ask that it be put to the vote of the members of the Supreme Council, as well as to increase the voting time for at least half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u98	Levek Grigorovich, I can agree with you that voting conditions in the Supreme Council are far from ideal. Indeed, the queues are big, and so forth. And the journalists, let's say so, got in the way. But there's no other place, you know? So we need to get out of the situation, look for other ways to solve the problem, increase voting time, or limit, for example, access to the voting area, and so forth. We will discuss this matter at the meeting of the Provisional Committee of Counties.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u99	I see. Catherine Vaszczuk, I give the floor to the woman. Please, men, bear with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u100	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, constituency for Ukraine.]] Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear journalists! This is something we can tell voters right now -- they don't see how the Supreme Council vote is going on -- that's not enough time. To be honest, the subjects of the arrangement were so cunning that they had to outwit themselves. [[Applause]] Tell them that they were dishonest with each other, and that's all that happened. There goes the ballot box, throws the ballot papers one, journalists stand there, wait hours to take a picture of whoever comes to the urn alone to throw the ballot. Dear colleagues, let us speak the truth to each other at least! How many of these things can we say? There's enough time to vote, there's no honesty in the arrangements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u101	Please, Sharov of the faction. That's it, we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u102	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] "The only Ukraine." I have an original offer. It is for us to have the time to vote and all to vote, to throw the ballots directly into the urns, to make such a proposal: to hand out the ballot now, and to vote at 10 o’clock on Tuesday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u103	The original proposal should be carefully considered. Dear colleagues, there was an offer to re-vote. I have to put her to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop the vote, please. From the procedure? Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies! I'm really out of procedure. Everyone understands that there is no reason for them to vote now. No decision shall be taken by the Provisional Committee of Counties on this matter. The Counting Commission made it clear that a period of time had been set for voting. Everyone knew that. In 1998, all those who now said that they had not been able to vote were able to vote. But then they picked up the ballot papers faster. If you do not know how to do this, learn.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u105	Thank you. Samofal has long held his hand, and then Matthew has another hand from the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u106	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] "The only Ukraine." A party of regions. Dear colleagues! I think that this process will continue, it can be endless. You and I have chosen the interim accounting commission as a proportional composition. Today they must say thanks for their high professionalism and begin voting on the second package.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u107	Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u108	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Victor Lavrentiovich, first of all, I address you as presiding officer. Victor Lavrentiovich, you're violating the Rules. You've already announced the vote, it's started, and then you're giving the word out of the procedure. You can't do that. And the second. I'm talking to those colleagues who are expressing some doubts right now, whether or not we should vote on it. Think, ladies and gentlemen, the figures themselves tell us what we need to do with this regulatory procedure, because 441 members of the national parliament have taken the ballot and only 151 have voted. And the simple arithmetic of even the results of our faction's vote, and you believe, I think all of us have voted in favour of Adam Ivanovich, tells us that the national MPs simply failed to exercise their right to vote for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u109	Thank you. All of it. As far as you're concerned, there's a violation. So as you're trying to repeat the vote right now, so I said turn the system on, and at the end of the eye I saw your hands are up there. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have your right to protect. Dear colleagues! A statement came from two factions asking to announce a recess for 30 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Alexanderus Moroz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u110	Victor Lavrentiovich! Deputies! There are two moments. The first is that when two factions call for a recess, it is not necessary to vote, it is simply announced to the leaders. That's understandable, and you don't have to vote. And there's a second point, probably a general one, which applies to everyone. Sometimes we want to give up for what we really want. And when that doesn't work out, then we start to cover up with some type of letter, the formula of the Rules, and so on. And here Catherine Vaschuk said that very carefully, forgetting how the Earth Codex and many other things voted. I'd like to propose this. Since we've been negotiating for two weeks and it's not a coincidence, we really need to be able to get the faction leaders back together for half an hour today, and they're going to propose a solution to this problem that will satisfy everyone. We need to do this now and we don't have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u111	I see. I wasn't going to vote. I've announced that there are two signatures under the application. Matvienko is the last of the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Quiet!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u112	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor". Dear colleagues! I want us all to calm down. If we respect each other’s rights, then it is likely that your right will be respected. Now the point is that we don't have to vote. But let's say that in our faction there was a need to consult on how to vote on this issue. And we have the right to ask you to take breaks to decide how to vote, whether to vote or not to support such a proposal. And I ask you not to deprive us of such a right, but the Chairman of Musiak not to violate the Rules. An application has been made, and the recess is to be announced immediately, without any vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u113	Are you looking at me? I'll call it a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u114	Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. May I have your attention, please? We took a break according to the statement of the two factions. Now we have to vote on the question of re-secret balloting by a packet registered under number 1067-3. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please prepare for the vote. What is the draft of the decision? I called you. Repeat: 1067-3. There is no provision for voting in this case. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please don't scream. I'll give you my word if you want to talk. According to the Rules, there is a rule that if there are any obstacles to voting, a vote is immediately taken. This applies to any vote, including secret ballots. It's installed. Turn on the Suprun microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u115	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Dear colleagues! Please calm down for a moment. That's my question. We have had multiple ballots, and no obstacles, including a lack of time, have been discussed by the MPs. Therefore, there is no basis for voting. In addition, at the suggestion of four factions, we decided on the order of nominations, the vote in the package, and so forth. This ruling does not provide for a re-voting procedure. Therefore, the proposal for a vote is not legal. Moreover, there were no restrictions on voting. The end of voting time is no obstacle to the will to vote. So we make this proposal: we have another package to vote on, and we have to move on to the next package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u116	Thank you. From the faction that applied for a break, Turkey’s Alexander Valentinovich has the right to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u117	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! The point is that the vote is not regulated by the voting order. This position is based on the Supreme Council Rules. So if the representatives of the unit "For the One Ukraine!" They believe that there is no need to vote, they can and have the right not to vote. Dear Chairman! A motion for re-voting was made, and arguments were presented. These arguments correspond to the current Rules. So let the hall determine the procedure. I ask you to put this motion to the vote, and the Chamber will decide whether or not there will be a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u118	Thank you. Alexander Alexanderus Moroz, of the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u119	Dear Victor Lavrentiovich! Dear colleagues! Once again, I ask you not to cover yourself with favourable rules of the Rules or with a decree adopted by the Supreme Council. We're all in the process of finding compromise. If we destroy this process now, neither those who stand in the opposite position nor those who enter, say, four factions will win. Therefore, if the proposal is put to the vote, it is necessary to vote and vote, allowing the position to be revealed to all who wish to reveal it. [[and this is permitted by the Rules]] If there's no positive result, then let's move on to the third or fourth packet and so forth from "the only Ukraine." And I would like to tell you from your own experience, don't take too many sides, it doesn't end badly for you, you know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u120	Thank you. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u121	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Well, given that we need to vote on the proposal, it's clear. But I would like to emphasize, Victor Lavrentiovich, which is part of article 3.7. 7 The Rules of Re-election are followed by a procedural decision of the Supreme Council, not by a majority of the total number of deputies. [[I emphasize: by procedural decision]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u122	All of it. I'll bet you a vote. Please prepare for the vote, I beg of you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! We've been warned, and that's the right thing to do, to say that in this case we already have this procedure, because of 226 decision-making. We have no choice but to draw most of the votes from the constitutional number. I understand you haven't spoken in a while. Landik is the last of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u123	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 44, Donetsk Region]] Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! So we're sitting here and we're thinking. That's what we have to offer. We have the head of the Counting Commission, let him read it, it says, "the vote went uninterrupted." Well, let him come out here and read it. And why are we voting here? [[Applause]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u124	I see. You suggested it was normal. We listened to everything, listened to those who said there was a violation. We decided that if the national deputy asked about the violation, and Valérie Dmitrovitch said that there were some nuances, I would put the vote to the vote. There is no doubt that a vote should be put to the vote. Please enable the system. "For" - 222. The decision is not taken. The factions? Please report to the factions. Yes, thank you. The next vote is 1067-4, but one of the initiators of this project is Yushchenko Viktor Andryovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u125	Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! I think politics is a very important principle of agreement. We've just witnessed a breach of agreements, so I'm asking you to withdraw the draft of the decision that we've made. Thank you. [[Noise in the hall. Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u126	Yes, dear fellows, the bags are finished. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u127	The Communist faction. Viktor Andryovich himself acknowledged what had happened, it was a really small place. [[Applause]] If this question were to be put to discussion and proposed to vote in a package because of the breach of arrangements during the vote of the first package that we reached on Thursday, I would withdraw our candidacy because an agreement was broken by one of the factions. I believe that Viktor Andriyovich has taken a self-critical approach to this and that we need to remove this package from the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u128	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Alexander Alexanderus Frost, also one of the initiators.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u129	I support the proposal to remove this package from the vote because I am convinced that those who stand for the opposite view are also set up to find some compromise. Please search until we have settled the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u130	Thank you. Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u131	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Dear colleagues! I understand that factions will now express their views on what has happened, but we need to think about how we should move forward. We are well aware that we now have no packages for which we could vote, so we need to work more productively in the consultation regime, working in factions. I have a specific business proposal to move into faction mode now, to suspend until Tuesday until 10 a.m. to allow factions to make serious proposals and to proceed with a more substantive vote from Tuesday. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In fact, there are no packets, we have nothing to work with, we have to get back to the suspension mode. That's understandable. But it is also clear that all such consultations are necessary for this to be serious. I'm asking the faction leaders to say a few words about these proposals right now. According to the Rules, of course, we should take a break now, but for what time? Will there be bags tomorrow for 10 o'clock? If so, then we make a decision by 10 a.m. tomorrow, according to the Rules, we can't do anything else. If not, we should vote in favour of moving the meeting to Tuesday. I'd like the faction leaders to tell us about it. We can talk about anything here, then we'll come and there'll be nothing here again. Who's the first of factions? Raise your hand, please. Alexander Alexander Moroz, Socialist Party of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u133	Dear Victor Lavrentiovich! Dear colleagues! Since today no document is likely to appear because of technical capabilities and other circumstances, nor is it possible to postpone the procedure, a recess is to be announced by 10 a.m. tomorrow. I hope that this time the positions will be reconciled and voting will be possible in the morning. This is the first time. And secondly, this is, by the way, the Rules provide. Today's session is closed, next thing you know, tomorrow at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u134	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Peter Mikolaiovich, what do you think? Please. Turn on the microphone by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u135	The Communist faction. It is obvious that today we will no longer be able to consider any of the packages, for other factions have not submitted specific proposals to the Supreme Council. Thus, it is natural, and this is in line with the Rules, for the next meeting to be adjourned, for Friday, 10 a.m. I think that's enough time. Those who have discussed the matter and who have made suggestions will be able to make draft decisions by 10 a.m. on Friday. So what I'm saying is, let's call it a break by 10:00 tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u136	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Alexander Valentinovich Turchinov, from the Julia Timoshenko faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Clearly, we didn’t get any bags in our hands. The only way to vote is if the two factions that have spoken before and voted out of the vote are to agree and submit this package or two more packets. In case that doesn't happen, we have this proposal: now, of course, stop the plenary session because it's ineffective, and start it at 10 o'clock. All faction leaders are now to gather in the conference room, and tomorrow at 10 o'clock, whether it's packs or not, to begin the plenary day of each faction's performances so that we can understand what the situation and the perspective is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u138	Thank you. Victor Andryovich Yushchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u139	We suggest we take a break by 10:00 tomorrow, and now continue consultations between the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u140	Thank you. Victor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u141	Ukrainian national deputy (mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! Given that there are no ballot boxes now, I don't think they'll show up until 10 a.m. tomorrow. We mislead ourselves, all of us, individually. There's an offer that's already here to take a break by 10:00 a.m. on Tuesday next week. We made a decision on the agenda, where it was written that if the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was not elected in the first two plenary weeks, we would continue to work in plenary mode until leadership was elected. That's why I think the most reliable decision we have to make is to call a recess by 10 a.m. Tuesday, but anyway, given that there are two proposals, they need to be voted on: to start the next plenary meeting either at 10 a.m. tomorrow or at 10 a.m. Tuesday. In any case, I would like to propose that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, as head of the Preparatory MP Group, continue to hold meetings of the leaders of the MP factions in order to achieve the result. Well, if anyone wants to talk tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock, call a break to 11, then 13 and then by Tuesday again, well, that's another thing. I suggest we break up by Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u142	Thank you, Victor Vladimirovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u143	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, constituency for Ukraine.]] Dear National Deputies! Obviously, and the results of the vote showed that there is no agreement, no trust. To find these arrangements, it takes time to restore trust. And it would be quite realistic to take a break by Tuesday, 10 o'clock, so that tomorrow we don't call a break again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u144	And from the procedure for the last time, Alexander Alexander Moroz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u145	Dear Victor Lavrentiovich, there's something everyone wants me to do for the last time. I'm not doing this one last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u146	Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u147	That's how it is today. There is the order provided for by the Rules - if the agenda is exhausted in time, the chairman may announce a recess until the next day. But the transfer from the next day until Tuesday is already a decision out of order, approved by the Supreme Council. So you can announce your recess by 10 a.m. tomorrow without a vote, and the motion to postpone the meeting until 10 a.m. on Tuesday will be put to the vote. The one who votes will then be seen.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u148	Thank you for the reminder. That's exactly what I wanted to do. In fact, I don't have to vote tomorrow about the opening of the next plenary meeting, so 10 o'clock on Tuesday -- and I want to put it to a vote. Please. Wait a second. Victor Volodymyrovich has something to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u149	Dear Chairman, how is that not necessary? It's 16 years now. The Supreme Council rules up to 18 hours. We'll have to vote anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-23-m0.u150	Victor Volodymyrovich, we're working, you know, under what regime. We didn't take any breaks. We had a full-time job, all the time. That's understandable. We're working properly. And look at the temporary situation, it tells us that there can be breaks when others solve these problems. I'm voting on the proposal to move the start of our next plenary meeting to Tuesday, 10 o'clock. Please vote. "For" - 185. The decision is not taken. The factions are asked to show. Thank you for your work. See you tomorrow, 10 o'clock in the morning. Thank you. Good luck.
