ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:02:10]] Registered -377 A total of 377 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Šibka Vitali Jakovic. Let us welcome him and wish him success and health. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Slabenko Sergey Ivanovich from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine". According to the article. More, please. "In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I declare my withdrawal from the Communist Party's parliamentary faction. The National Deputy Hara, as well as the entry of the National Deputy Harry into the Ukrainian "Department". Dear colleagues, according to the Rules on Friday, we discuss matters according to schedule. You have a list of questions to consider. There is no question of the rules today, but I would like to announce them and propose a vote. Is there no objection? A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Mikoli Sherschun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction of a school in the village of Balashovka in the province of Rivezni district, which is built at the expense of centralised capital investments in 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:04:43]] For-126 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction of the surgical corps of the Kirovograd City Hospital of Emergency Relief. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:05:15]] For 168 Oleg Humenyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the payment of the debt from funding to families with children and the payment of benefits and subsidies for benefits and fuel subsidies in the Ternopil region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:05:43]] For 132 For - 132, the decision is made. Vladimir Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the underfunding of subsidies to the local budget of Lucca. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:10]] For-126 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the minister of social policy and work on the problems of the Korovograd Territorial Centre for Pensioners and Lonely Unemployed Citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:07:12]] For 177 Decision taken. Michael Dobkin to the Minister of Economics and European Integration on the study of the problem of increasing imports into Ukraine of air conditioning products. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:07:06]] For 121 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin and Stepan Cloud to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the verification and removal of the facts of the verification of official powers, of official falsification and corruption in the manufacture and issuance of illegal special certificates to owners of private cars, of the illegal registration of unscrupulous and stolen vehicles and of the dismissal of the UDAI Chief of Staff in the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Lviv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:07:50]] For-127 For - 127, the decision is made. Teams of deputies Sandler, Riesnik and others to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding the misconduct of employees of the Czernigiv Region BSS Authority. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:26]] For 132 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request for violations of current legislation in the settlement of the question of the abolition of the "Schlah" market in the Holy District of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:01]] For-167 Decision taken. Jurya Boyka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of the rights of shareholders of the Berezan Barishev Association in the Kyiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:28]] For-94 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies Alexeyev, Shirko, Red and others to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of members of the Procurator's Office of the City of Raven and the employees of the City Department of Internal Affairs in relation to the citizens of Dmitruk and Žerebecko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:09]] For 132 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the young people's deputies, I inform you of the creation of an interfractional union of New Generation deputies, which brings together 19 national deputies, who are representatives of 10 MPs and the factions of the Supreme Council. Young deputies under the age of 33 have joined the union. The head of the National Assembly elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vitaly Homutinnik, and the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Pavlenko. There's an appropriate statement, we'll give it to you. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Law amending article 43 of Ukraine’s mining law to simplify the procedure for granting benefits. The reporter is Secretary of State of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy Vladimir Andriyovich Luzkin. Please, Vladimir Andriyovich, in five minutes. The profile committee suggests that we consider this question. The report is 5 minutes, the answers are 5 minutes, the report is 2 minutes, the question is 3 minutes, the discussion and the decision-making is 10 minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Today, a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 43 of Ukraine’s mining law, registration number 1197, has been tabled for your consideration. According to regulations that operate in the coal sector, workers and pensioners of mining enterprises who live in combustion houses are entitled to free coal mining under a collective contract. The mining law of Ukraine extends this benefit to people who are entitled to free coal mining and central heating. At the same time, they are exempt from payment for electricity consumption and gas at the cost of free coal. The procedure for determining the amounts of compensation for the cost of electricity and gas consumed is largely cumbersome. Therefore, it is suggested that it be simplified substantially: every person entitled to free coal mining and central heating is provided with a monetary compensation. The amount of compensation is determined by the cost of coal, as set out in the collective contract at the price at which the enterprise provides it to its employees. The adoption of this Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 43 of the Mining Law of Ukraine will lead to an increase in mining costs by 132.3 million grevens per year, which is 1.8 percent of the value of commodities. All of these costs will be borne by implementing measures to increase productivity and resource saving programmes by reducing material, energy and other costs of coal production. The adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 43 of the Mining Law of Ukraine will help improve the socio-economic situation in mining regions. In view of the above, please support the proposal of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 43 of the Mining Law of Ukraine as proposed. The draft law agrees with all interested ministries, recommended to the Supreme Council, the Committee on Social Policy and Work, the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign in. Please point it on the board. Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Get ready for the Yukhnovsky Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u4	Dear reporter! Of course, in my district, there are no such great problems about the mining bill, but there's Red Town and there's West Ukraine, and there's Galician Wallin Coal Basin. Please tell me, right here in front of us, if you put your hand on your heart, it will solve the problems or no amendment to article 43 of the mining law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u5	Yes. Not all problems will be solved, but the lives of these people will be greatly improved. Why? In fact, the article does not work until now. The law was passed in 1999, yet the mechanism is so complex that it is virtually impossible to implement it. And it's done so long as you get coal from those workers, and there's the agile parts that sell this coal, they buy much cheaper, they sell more expensive. People just don't have a way out. And if you do, it's practically for the person who's going to benefit from this coal, that's roughly what the collective contract is for 5,000 tons. The average coal value of 120 dollars is about 708 dollars per year. I mean, it's 59 bucks a month. It's basically the kind of cost that's quite enough of the utility that they get by electricity, by gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u6	Igor Yukhnovsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u7	In part, you have already answered my question. I wanted to ask you. What did he prescribe for a person to leave such coal? At what price is this coal released? And it turns out that the mine from which the man retired should cover the cost of this coal or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u8	The decision of the collective agreement is taken. Minpalevenergo is recommended for a maximum of 5.9 tons per person. The average cost of coal is 120 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u9	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Alexandrovsky, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I would ask you with all the responsibility to respond to this draft law, because the reporter has made such an accurate report of the law that it is not clear what this is about. I'm in the material of this problem, and I know very well. And here's the thing. The fact that the removal of the rule of law by which a person who lives in a central heating house is deprived of the right to compensation, for example, the one that is available to people who live in combustion houses. For three years, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Department of Fuel and Energy wrote down that "we're developing a mechanism." This is the mechanism they developed. This is about taking away the most disadvantaged category of people — pensioners, veterans, disabled people who worked in a mine and have the right to benefit from it. So I don't really have a question, but I have a position that this rule can't be maintained. Because once we get there, as it was illustrated yesterday, until we support a disabled person, a pensioner, a veteran, there's no violence, there's no money. And for a banker, they always are for an entrepreneur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u11	Can I answer that? Your Honourable National Deputy, of course, you have a strict attitude toward this. I don't agree with you. It's a wish. I understand, but it's the wish of the miners, and they're really going to get the money that they say they're going to spend, they're going to spend it on electricity, they're going to pay for electricity and gas. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u12	National Deputy Alexandrovsky, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u13	Deputy Alexandrovskaya, town of Harkov, faction of Communists. I realize it's a very nasty question, but I think it's the best way to deal with coal miners. Therefore, please pass the word to Sinchenko Sergey Grigorievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u14	Sinchenko, a faction of Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u15	Your Honor, I invite you to the constituency of Kirovsk Lugansk district where four mines are closed, two of them are working, but they will be working for the course of the 3-4 years, and they will continue to be closed. And I have 60 percent of the people who come to the reception, they're people who talk about coal. You'd think the damage would sound so beautiful: let's substitute coal for material compensation for cash. But you probably know there's a huge wage debt in the coal industry. Say, please, this law you're proposing is good, or it's going to be, well, an emergency in these areas or regions where coal miners are mostly living.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u16	Well, the Ministry's view is that it's for the benefit of miners and that they'll definitely get living money.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Andryovich. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Victor Ivanovich Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Article 43 of the Mining Act is being amended to allow the relevant categories of citizens to simplify the procedure for granting benefits in the calculation of utilities for the payment of electricity consumed, gas. The principal scientific expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the bill. Our section committee has considered the bill introduced and proposes that article 43, part 8, of the Mining Law of Ukraine should be amended as follows: “Those who are entitled to free coal mining but live in central heating houses are compensated for electricity and gas: workers working in mining, coal processing and coal-based enterprises are compensated for the cost of their production; Pensioners, disabled persons, families of the deceased and other persons entitled to receive the above-mentioned benefit, on the basis of State subsidies through local authorities." Dear People's Deputies, I ask you, in the light of the comments made, to adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u19	Please sign in. Three minutes. Please point it on the board. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready, Nadjajko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u20	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We understand the conditions under which miners work today, and we understand that the committee today is offering to simplify the procedure for granting benefits. And in principle, we will support you in this. Just tell me, this budget is budgeted for 2003, and we're going to accept this order right now, and the budget needs, let's say, by June 1st, to take any changes so that they're already reflected in the next budget? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u21	Thank you. So this is not foreseen in the 2003 budget, so today what I have said to our pensioners, to those who have worked, is that they need to receive this benefit today through local self-government, through subsidies. So that's the kind of people we've got that's 114 thousand. These are the pensioners who have earned these benefits. Here. We'll take off the load on the facilities that our mines are providing today. Why am I saying that? Let me give you an example. There's a Petrovsky mine in Donetsk. It was a big, serious mine, and then six mines were shut down, and the people who got that benefit, I mean, domestic fuel, they went over to that mine. And today, there are 1,200 people working in this mine, and the carbon recipients who have this benefit are 5,000. person. How about this mine pulls up? No, of course not. That's why we want to take the load off the coal industry. Those who work should receive this rule at the expense of enterprises and pensioners at the expense of local authorities through subsidies that we should put into the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u22	Deputies of the People, the faction of the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u23	There's a faction of communists. Ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to pass this law. At each meeting, I mean coal enterprises, every village is often asked this question: to adopt this law. Once again, I strongly request the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u24	National MP Rudenko, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u25	Thank you. Please tell me, from your point of view, by changing the form of property from state to private, as planned and for mines, this law will be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u26	To date, we have practically no private mines. Prepared, let's say, to privatize the coal industry. I want to tell you here today that, as the leader of a coal workers' union, we are absolutely not in agreement with this approach, because no one will privatize our coal enterprises that have complex mining and geological conditions, and I don't think there will be any investors. Therefore, there must be State support, and the budget that we are considering with you on the financing of the coal sector would ask the deputies not to support the level that is currently being submitted to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u27	Yes, thank you. Oh, one more question. Astrov-Shumilov, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u28	Dear People's Deputies! Today, only 60 per cent of coal mining benefits are available for heating purposes. This is because there are no sources on the mines, especially those that work poorly, lack the funds to pay wages, lack the funds to acquire materials, equipment, including these benefits. Therefore, the proposal made by Comrade Turmanov must be supported by the budget only by addressing the problem of miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u29	It was a wish, I think? We'll thank you for your support. Thank you. The discussion took place with Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Kravchenka. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" is non-criminal, the Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is proposed has only three lines. But people are behind it. What is the decoupling of coal to domestic needs? It's actually one of the forms of pay. It's about the same thing that happens in the village when grains are calculated. What is the danger, and is such a law needed or not? The second question is that the law is necessary, but not in that way. Why not? It's about what's written here: "The mining companies pay money in terms of time and size, as defined by the collective agreement." And if a man, and raised our deputies questions, a pensioner, a veteran, a disabled person, what collective agreement is there, who will take care of his interests? No one's answering to you right now. Now, how big is the money compensation? There's a market price, there's that price you called the average. And with all due respect to Secretary of State of Luzkin, I'd like to say that you're not taking coal for 120 bracelets today. So we're saying, you're going to look for it -- and you're going to find 200 in the final consumer. So we're just saying that we want to partially subtract this money, we're multiplying by the number of these tons, and we're getting how much we're going to take from these people. Well, let's see if it's normal or not. Then let's write it down, let's take it in the first reading, and then we'll write, "They're paying cash compensation no less than market money." Then it will be clear that a person has received compensation, let him think whether he will burn, compensate, and where he will spend this money wherever he wants it to go. What they're going to spend on is their right. So I think this law is underworked. But I have no doubt that such a law should be enacted. And the terms also have to be defined in the law, and the average norms have to be somehow approximated, and so in one collective agreement there's one, and in the other. And we're making changes to article 43 of the law, I emphasize, and in every collective agreement, it's going to depend on the skills of the union, the knowledge of the trade union. So what we do is this law in this way, if it's adopted, it's only going to be against people. Thus, it is only in the first reading that this law is filled with the protection of the common man. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u31	National MP Kravchenko, Communist faction. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! I am pleased that, in the end, we were able to adopt the most serious law yesterday, before the mines broke down. I am pleased that various political parties have participated in the adoption of this law. And what is being considered today is the draft Act on Amendments to Article 43 of the Mining Act, which speaks of constructiveness, and says that this is a problem in mining regions today that needs to be addressed immediately. This is the second, in importance, question after regressive claims. We must pay tribute to the previous convening of the Supreme Council that we have been able to resolve this issue and that the decision to adopt the Act 11.97 will solve this problem. I don't want to say that this is a clear and coordinated decision. Yes, you can't buy a ton of coal for 120 bracelets today. But there is a mechanism here that can be edited, developed and addressed in second reading. But I have no doubt that the law should be adopted on first reading. I will make every effort to have the faction vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! Consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Law on the Simplification of the Payment Procedure has been completed. The decision will be decided on the day of the vote. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Single Congregation, which is being carried out at the points of entry through the State border of Ukraine on the exemption from payment of a single assembly of humanitarian aid vehicles. We are considering a simplified procedure with the fact that at about 11:30 a.m., we have come to consider the issue of the report of the Stretovic Committee. Please, Arkady Fedorovich Demidenko, First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport. The minister now accepts the Minister of Transportation of Poland, and that is why the change took place.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft amendment to the Ukrainian Single Assembly Act, which is being implemented at border crossing points across Ukraine, has been developed by the Ministry of Transport with the aim of creating more favourable conditions for imports of humanitarian goods into Ukraine. The bill provides for exemption from the operation of a single congregation at the points of entry through the State border of Ukraine of means of transport carrying humanitarian aid cargo if the accompanying documents are drawn up for beneficiaries of humanitarian aid in Ukraine, which is entered into the sole register of beneficiaries of humanitarian aid. To date, the Commission on Humanitarian Aid at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has incorporated 1,840 organizations, with some 40,000 tons of humanitarian aid coming from 40 countries in the world last year, some 17,000 tons from Germany, over 7,000 tons from the United States, and 2.5 thousand tons from the Netherlands. In recent times, a large number of shipments have come from Switzerland, Hungary, Sweden, France, and Norway. The bulk of these goods is transported by road, often by foreign citizens, who carry humanitarian goods and vehicles, which are hired by European charities, at their expense. It should be borne in mind that, according to the Ukrainian Humanities Aid Act, foreign citizens who deliver or accompany humanitarian cargo are entitled to the primary free visa service, to stay in hotels and to travel by car in Ukraine. The legislative initiative in question is proposed to be implemented by means of additions to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the only congregation to be held at the crossing points across the Ukrainian State. The adoption of the law testifies to the world the humane attitude of our nation toward individuals and groups in need of material assistance and will promote Ukraine’s international image. The draft law is in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, the Ministry of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. Please support the proposed draft Ukrainian law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u35	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u36	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please tell the reporter if we adopt this law or if we don't increase the level of smuggling using the corresponding benefit and how this is done in Eastern European countries. It means Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic. Is there also a tax exemption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u37	Well, I think the issue of smuggling is completely inappropriate to this law, because all the cargo that goes into Ukraine regardless of whether they're basic or humanitarian, they're necessarily checked by the appropriate authorities and customs and border guards. And to this day it has been done and will be done, so there will be no smuggling problems here. With regard to the experience of other countries, we know that some countries have put in place a system of relief from road loads called humanitarian goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u38	Sergey Drogunzov, please. Dear colleagues, I didn't accidentally remind you that this is a simplified procedure for us. What's it called here? Short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u39	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear reporter, please tell me, what will be the cost to the State of this aid for humanitarian aid carriers? It's all going to budget, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u40	Yeah, it goes to. I'm answering. It's going to the budget. And I said that last year there were about 40,000 shipments, which is literally a few hundred percent of the total volume of shipments. I can just give you two examples. The rate of a single congregation for road transport is more than 44 tons, accounting for 0.2 euros of cargo. If you take, just for example, the Lviv-Kiev road and this cargo came to us, it's about 120 euros for 44 tons of cargo. All I can do is name the sum of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u41	People's deputy Ivancho, faction of our Ukraine, then Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u42	Dear Arkady Fedorovich! I'm going to support your bill of release from the payment of a single congregation of vehicles moving with humanitarian aid. But this is only part of the question, because there is still a local tax and a congregation that manages in the border areas of transportation to the area. I mean, we're taking down a single congregation, and on the way back, we're paying $50 for the territory, the area that follows the border. So we solved one half of the questions, and the other half didn't solve the questions. What do you think about the second half of the questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u43	I want to say that for a few years in a row, we ask questions and decide that the local congregations that handle district or district administrations are dealing with a breach of inter-government agreements between our country and other countries. And that's why we have some problems so far. But I wanted to say that, especially this year, the vast majority of these congregations that you're talking about have been canceled.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u44	National MP Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u45	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Baranowski. Dear reporter, there is no secret that often the humanitarian aid that goes on turns into a commercial, and quite specific use. For example, churches that are not traditional for Ukraine, various sects, bringing some humanitarian aid, not only buy in election elections, but they buy themselves believers in their faith. We know these products that are often imported, the humanitarians were used in elections to buy voters. We have examples of such products coming to market, especially in markets. Can this law put any limit on the use of this "humanitarian" aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there's a committee at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on humanitarian aid issues, which deals fully with all proposals for humanitarian aid, the type of cargo, and who's giving it to who's receiving it. And only the commission has the right to decide whether or not this cargo is humanitarian. To this law these issues are, in my opinion. They don't have a relationship.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u47	Yes, thank you. Did everyone ask you a question? Have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I'll be brief. This is a necessary law that is based on the fact that the only congregation is not coping with the means of transportation of relief supplies. If the accompanying documents are drawn up for beneficiaries of humanitarian aid in Ukraine, they are included in the sole register of beneficiaries of humanitarian aid. The Committee decided that the Supreme Council should adopt the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u49	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. Of course, we need to adopt such a law because we are ridiculed by the fact that we are in the congregation, taking more of the means of transportation that bring us humanitarian aid. But I definitely cannot now agree with our colleague-head of the Burjak committee's proposal that this law may be passed as a whole. I would like to ask you not to do that. And I explain why. Because 40,000 cargo came into the country just last year. Now, please tell me, have you seen in the markets or have you been approached by voters about the fact that the humanitarian aid that has been delivered through many organizations is then sold in markets? You may have seen such experiences. Such incidents have been known even in various religions that have a purely religious purpose, even there the wicked sometimes pushes people to find profit. Where will we then look? So preventing smuggling, preventing corruption in this matter is a very serious issue. And there is also the legal question. The question of how this is in line with the budget code that we adopted, in particular, article 27 of the Code of Budgets. So if the budget cuts down and the budget cuts, we have to publish this law by August 15th, the year ahead of schedule. This means that when we adopt the law, we already have to write, Sergey Vasilovich, that it enters into force not since then, you propose in general. And I'm proposing, specifically, that I write a piece of the second right over here, after that the only congregation can't handle the means of transport: "In order to prevent smuggling and abuse, to send information about the crossover of state control to the State Tax Administration." I mean, it's only parallel to one of the 40,000. The border of the state, the information about it went, and then there, let them look at the lists of where it was distributed, or it's actually given out, or it's just sold out. But it will be one that will not allow abuse, Arkady Fedorovich. Without that, we simply open up the border and do not hope that there are inadvertent people. We have to predict this as legislators, we have to see many steps forward. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u51	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Questions were raised and asked by the national deputies of Baranovsky, Rudzikowski. This has also been said in the speech of the national deputy Karmazin, and I have reason to believe that in the form of humanitarian aid in Ukraine, everything needs to be done by the dealers. We have cases where, in the form of humanitarian aid, especially in medicine, drugs are introduced, equipment that is then successfully implemented, of course, at the expense of money. Especially I'm in favour of freeing myself from payment of duty, but also for the State to have strict control at prices and in the directions, I mean medicine. Especially in my neighborhood, I've had many meetings with those humanitarianists who brought things, equipment, and then for half the price, they said they were for us Ukrainians in Ukraine. Then the question is, Who are we releasing from the moment we give such benefits to? So when we talk about what such a bill is necessary, the faction will be defined -- the Socialist Party of Ukraine -- on Thursday when we vote. But I would like the state to have tight control with the benefits. Next. In general, I would like to go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, pay attention, especially for Bukovina, for the Chernivecki region, Novoselicki, Kilmenecki, Sokerian regions, about the simplified crossing of the border with Moldova. Your Honor, this is ridiculous! To visit your father, you need to take such a procedure that you do not want to go there. We have children from other regions, especially the Novoseltsky region, who learn in Chisinau, to get to their parents, to take a child there, to go through the whole procedure. One duck can run, one kilogram of meat can, it can't, you can't go back. Tears! I spoke to the minister of foreign affairs several times on this matter. The right response was to take measures, but that's not enough. And I think the appropriate committee should respond to what needs to be done, especially in those border areas where tens of years both parents and children and covens and brothers and sisters have lived in friendship, there is a border today. I would also like to see measures taken in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending Ukraine's law on the only assembly that is being held at points of entry across the state border of Ukraine regarding the release of payment of the single congregation from humanitarian aid vehicles has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. I am announcing for consideration the draft law amending certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Bill on the circulation of bills in Ukraine. This is the procedure that's proposed. Reporters and co-reporters, up to five minutes and 10 minutes for discussion. Reporter is Head of the State Commission and Securities and Stock Market Oleg Mikolaiovich Mozgovy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u54	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some of the legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Bill on the circulation of bills in Ukraine, which was designed to implement article 14, paragraph 2, of the Act on the circulation of bills in Ukraine, and to introduce a fourth call to the Supreme Council. The bill was considered by the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis. The bill provides for amendments to Ukraine’s laws on agriculture, notary, excise collection on alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, the Budget Code and the Code of Administrative Offences. The main provisions of the draft law under consideration are the additions to the Ukrainian Act on Economic Associations to prohibit the use of bills as contributions to statutory funds of the Economic Society. Constipation in Ukraine's Pro Notariat Act of Notary of Protest Proclamation, enforcement in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences of Liability in the form of Penal Sanctions for Infringement of Billing by Subjects of Vulnerable Circumstances, constitutes a fine imposed on Head of Hostages, Legal Persons, Physical Persons who are Infringinging the Act. The imposition of sanctions will be carried out by public authorities that control and supervise the financial and economic activities of economic operators. It is also proposed that amendments be made to the Act on the Excise Collection of Alcohol and Tobacco Products in relation to the removal of rules on the issuance of tax bills by business entities, the amendment of the Code of Budgets for the purpose of establishing bans and the use of bills in budgetary calculations. In addition, it should be noted that according to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific Expert Office, in addition to the amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in the Notariat and Economic Associations Act, which are proposed to amend some other legislative acts, namely, securities and stock exchange, namely, amendments to article 21 with reference to the order and conditions of use of billing in business, will be made in accordance with the Bill of Exchange in Ukraine. The other one. Regarding the national regulation of the value market of Ukraine to make additions to the extension of tasks assigned to the commission, namely, to determine that the commission sets out the procedure for the conduct of the calendar of issued bills, together with the National Bank of Ukraine, for the execution of the functions of the accounting chambers established by the bank in respect of the maintenance of the permanent one. And the National Bank. Complementing an article that defines the general mandate of the National Bank, namely, to establish that the NBA, together with the Securities Commission, determines the order for the institutions to carry out the functions of the Chambers of Auditors for the maintenance of the perennial circulation, the approval of the form and the procedure for the production of bill forms when approved by the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. The Commission supports these proposals, and if the project is accepted on the basis of the following reading, we do not object to taking these proposals into account. As a result, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council recommends that the bill be adopted in the first reading on the basis of further consideration of the above observations and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u55	Thank you, Oleg Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues! You can have it as your birthday, please, National Deputy Shibko. Even after the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u56	Thank you. Socialist Party, Vitaly Shibko. You know that so far many businesses are bankrupt because there is no control over the circulation of bills. You know how it's done, the mechanism's working here. When the billet wears off, so does the company’s bankruptcy. In fact, many businesses have already been distributed behind this billing campaign. Is this law going to stop or not? What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u57	Thank you. First of all, I would point out that, unfortunately, there is not a single body in Ukraine today that is engaged in and working on a single policy on the release and circulation of bills in Ukraine. This is now being done by the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and around the National Securities Commission and. The market. More than 150 of the probably normative acts that are regulated today, I would like to point out so much that this bill approaches and establishes, prohibits the use of promissory notes on some issues, does not answer all the questions that you have asked. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u58	National Deputy of Zagreb, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Oleg Mikolaiovich! The issue of circulation of bills or other securities usually requires a serious settlement today on the grounds that we see that securities, through these mechanisms today, are being used as illegal privatization, as today’s increase in certain liabilities that result in the bankruptcy of some businesses or others. I'd like you to. The question is such that you can answer the question about the illegal registration of securities issued in accordance with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, signed by China, for 2.5 billion dollars by the daughter of Naftogaz Ukraine, Gaz Ukraine. We know very well the balance of this business, since it has statutory capital of 800,000. Your department today, your decision was to register 2 and a half billion securities of bond release and allow these securities to move within Ukraine accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u60	You're a question, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u61	I understood the question. Here's the answer. Today, according to current legislation, the system acts as securities and stock exchange legislation, and the system works when the government registration authority requires information from the issuer about the release of one or more papers, it's about shares, corporate securities that have been registered by the State Commission. First, the law provides a limit on the issuance of securities by shareholders of not more than 25 percent of statutory capital. This is a requirement for shareholders to protect shareholders if the decision is made by management and the shareholder does not make a decision. In this case, it's a proposal for a release, and I have, I'm just saying, a proposal for the release of securities by 3 and a half billion dollars to a subsidiary of a state-owned enterprise, where there's a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that owns this company, and there's no, there's no, there's no limit to the release of non-acquired securities companies. Unfortunately, such a situation can be judged differently, but there are no limits to the release of securities by non-sharers. We can talk about today's release of 3 and a half billion dollars of securities, shares in this case, but the question of who's going to buy, the task of the State is to reveal information about this enterprise, to show its financial state, to show its balance, to make it available to the investor. And the investor himself will decide whether to buy or not to purchase such securities and will be responsible for the decisions he makes, the investment decisions he makes. I mean, if he buys that kind of securities. The task of the State, the commission's task of disclosing information about this issuer, of its financial status according to the current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u62	Yes, thank you, Oleg Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I see I enjoyed it. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, On Notariat, on Excise Collection for Alcohol and Tobacco Products, the Ukrainian Budget Code and the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. In discussing the draft law at the Committee on Finance and Banking, it was noted that some of its positions and standards needed to be further developed. This is about making changes to article 166 of the Code on Administrative Offences and Exclusion of the Rules on the Use of Tax Bills, which was abrogated by the Bank in part 12 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on Excise Collection for Alcohol and Tobacco Products. It is also necessary to reconcile the Ukrainian bill and the bill on the circulation of bills in Ukraine on the use of billings to make calculations with government and local budgets. The committee agreed with the comments and proposals put forward in the bill by the Chief Scientific Expert Office of the Supreme Council and considered that they needed to be processed when preparing the bill for second reading. The committee at its meeting decided to introduce a draft bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and prepared for consideration in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u64	Thank you. Please sit Vasil Vasilovich. One of the speakers was Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I am paying your attention, of course, to Odessa, the town hero, but so far also temporarily purchased. Honorable National MPs. A very serious question, I see that the committee is already more considerate of its consideration. But there are such major flaws in this project. First, from the report of the rapporteur, we have seen that we have not yet settled with the bills in the state, not settled, there is no, there is no one body to deal with these problems, and in general, if we are already making changes to the law, let us not just patch it up, but make complex changes that will answer these questions so that we don't make all the changes and so we don't apply legislation. I'll give you a chance that the bill on the circulation of promissory notes is a completely fresh law, and we passed it back in April 2001, so it's not that old. Now, about knowing the committees. It is clear that amending the Notary Act refers to the powers of the Committee on Legal Policy and amending the Administrative Code, the Code on Administrative Offences refers to the powers of the Committee on Legislative Protection. It is obvious that they need to be heeded, and it is obvious that they need to express themselves. To my profound conviction, the introduction of article 166 with the 9th Amendment of the Code of Administrative Offences should at least be recorded, a violation of legislation regarding the conditions for the issuance of promissory notes by whom, who is the subject of the administrative offence? This is necessary in order to be recorded in the article. Next, we need to make sure that when we count the issuance of a bill without the fact that the goods, the work, the provision of services, and so on, we must record that without any sign of the crime provided for in the Criminal Code. Why? Because then we can relieve criminal responsibility if administrative responsibility arises, if these actions are provided in administrative order. But there are clearly signs of other, more serious things, or signs of criminal crime. And it's over. The Added Cost Tax Act, in article 11, paragraph 11.5, states that tax payers may, at their own request, give the customs authorities a simple bill to the amount of the tax liability, one of which remains in the customs office and the other is sent to the authorities of the State Tax Administration. [[I'm done.]] The ban on the use of State, local budgets will lead to the existence of a legislative coalition with the Added Value Tax Act. It also needs to be removed in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u66	Thank you. This question is now under consideration. The vote will take place on December 12. Let's move on to the next question. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers’ Obligations to Budgets and State Purpose Funds. National deputy of Ukraine, Czernovetský Leonid Mihajlovich, reports. You don't? Fellowship of the Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Burjak Sergio Vasilovich Why don't you take that off, Sergey Vasilovich, if there's no reporter? Well, we'll be breaking the Rules if without a report, without an initiator. Let's take it. Let's go to the other one. Next question. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing. Reported Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance Regurecko Vasil Vasilovich. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u67	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. With a view to bringing accounting and financial reporting into line with legislation adopted in 1993, on financial services and public regulation of financial services markets, and taking into account steps towards integration of Ukraine into the European Union, a bill amending the Auditorial Act is submitted to your attention. The bill provides for amendments to a number of articles of the law in force, including the fourth, seventh, eighth, on audit activity. Separate texts on the definition of accounting and financial reporting to legislation and national accounting standards. In accordance with article 26 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the conditions for the introduction of the experience of the world trading organisation, articles 5 and 14 of the bill propose to amend the restrictions on the Ukrainian auditor’s certificate for individuals other than citizens of Ukraine who are prohibited by the law in force. It is proposed, in accordance with the Banking and Banking Act, to add to the fact that auditor certification for the conduct of an audit bank is carried out by the Audit Chamber in agreement with the National Bank. And in addition, replace the phrases concerning higher education, which states that Ukrainian citizens who have received higher education should be replaced by the words that natural persons who have higher education whose document of acquisition is recognized in Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to carry out, in accordance with the organizational plan, a perfect financial control system. To complement the professional qualifications of auditors and audit services and the quality of audit services that will meet international auditing standards. This will be consistent with the direction and harmonization of Ukraine’s legislation to the European Union’s legislation. It is proposed that changes be made to the number of members of the Audit Chamber compared to the existing legislation. This is acknowledged by the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets, in accordance with the adopted law on financial services and public regulation of financial services markets, having certain powers to certify and grant, and keeping a register of auditors who can provide services in this area. It is suggested that changes be made to the organization of the direct work of the auditorium itself. Current legislation does not usually provide for the head of this chamber to be a permanent secretariat, members of the auditorium are working on a social basis. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to make changes by choosing the head of the Auditorium, who would have a permanent job in the Chamber for at least five years. In addition, a number of suggestions apply to technical changes and to align the terms to the laws that I have called above. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to say a few words about an alternative bill to be reported by the National MP of Zvaric. In the Ministry of Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers has made proposals to comment on this bill and to invite the National MPs to take these bills into account when deciding which of the bills is the basis. Of course, the Cabinet of Ministers is making a proposal to take the bill into account, and on second reading, to take into account the proposals that will be made by the National Deputies, particularly in the project of the National MP Zvaric. Since we believe that, as a minimum, the ten positions of the alternative bill are to be radically changed and in this edition to which they are proposed, we propose not to accept it on the first reading, so that we can simplify the adoption of the bill, and we are addressing you as a basis for adopting a government project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u68	Will there be questions for Vasil Vasilovich, the reporter? Please sign up. Lighten up. The word is given to Zarubinsky. Next nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Vassil Vasilovich! That's my question. As you know, there is a general service trade agreement. And if our legislation contradicts this agreement, even more problematic is the question of whether it is possible to join the World Trade Organization. In the section of the first proposed project, a foreign audit firm can perform audits only in the case of a nonresident. In fact, the bill imposes restrictions on the activity of foreign audit firms in Ukraine’s market. How can you comment, and is this really in line with the requirements of the General Service Trade Agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u70	In the course of the negotiations on Ukraine’s entry into the U.S.S.A., claims arose regarding the restriction of the physical person to provide services in Ukraine, which is indeed prohibited by valid legislation. And we are changing where these bans are lifted and the world trade organization is focusing on these conditions. In terms of direct audit firms, they are registered in Ukraine as audit firms as a legal person under Ukrainian law and can carry out this activity in the country. It can certainly be discussed in the adoption of the law as a whole, but in our view, we have to make such a warning to the bill. I don't see the World Trade Organization having any pretenses if we only regulate the conclusion of an audit agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u71	Nigger, please. Next Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u72	Dear Vassil Vasilovich! You said the cook's bill was an alternative to the Cabinet of Ministers bill. Don't you think that's an exaggeration? There may be some differences between these bills, and perhaps not even significant differences, so it is easy to reconcile by taking the basis for each other to make a difference. I mean, is there any reason to claim the alternative to this cookbook? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u73	Thank you. And the bill is a government bill, a bill by the National MP Zvaric and one and the other are making changes to actual legislation. And many of the positions of these bills are similar proposals, and in principle they coincide. There are certainly differences, and I called it a minimum of 10 differences, the government pointed out that they contradicted the logic of this law we proposed in this edition not to accept or change it. I realize that in the second reading, we can correct and consider these suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u74	Please, Šibko Vitali Jakovitch, the next is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u75	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please pass the word Semenjuk to Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u76	Turn on the Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u77	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I remember the 95th year when there was a mandatory audit for enterprises by the year 95, regardless of the form of ownership, only, in fact, then some state-owned enterprises were excluded. This was kind of a racket that led to the fact that almost all businesses were, even before reporting to the tax administration. Thank God, then, at my suggestion, this rule was ruled out. But I have a little bit of a question going on with what I'm saying. Worldwide, it is suggested that companies be licensed or that audiences be licensed to carry out appropriate checks. In the draft law that you're introducing, and it repeats this appropriate norm, and in Mr. Zvarič, that the licensing will not be carried out, as it does not fall under the License Act, but only registration will take place. Is this not a departure from European standards? Because, as the President says, we are going to Europe and we want our legislation to meet the standards of the Council of Europe, and this bill is in fact contrary to those European norms. Do you think it needs to be adjusted, or is it your line to keep this rule in the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u78	Thank you. Regarding mandatory audit, I agree with you, we settled this issue in the year 95. Rather, it was a mistake, we all admitted it. Today, however, the law regulates liability only for the financial reporting that is being made public. It's in the law, and I understand that there will be no claims and no comments. It's about licensing. You remember that the Licensing Act does not provide for the obligation to license entrepreneurial activities of audit firms. However, any audit firm has to be registered by the Auditor's Chamber and when it registers, the conditions for its registration are precisely intended to undergo a certain procedure for assessing the qualifications of the firm's audit firm, this is practically the same license, without a proper registration the firm can't provide audit services. And in addition, the audience has to get a certificate, take an exam, get an exam and get a certificate that gives them the right to work and work directly at the firm. No audience even in the registered firm has the right to work without confirmation of its professional ability to conduct audits, or obtain a certificate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u79	Right, right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u80	We believe that this form is sufficient to regulate these services in the service market in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u81	Please sit down, Vasil Vasilovich. Time's up, I'm sorry, please. Well, there's no time. Have a seat, please. The word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Zvaricz Roman Mikhajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u82	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! Before I begin to present my bill, I have to make one procedural remark. I didn't want to do this earlier because it was about my bill, but I'm paying attention to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has a different report on this issue. I have to pay attention to this situation because I have to express my indignation at the fact that the rights and duties of the subject of the legislative initiative are being replaced, in this case the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And it seems to me that we should not be so easy to consider with constitutional powers, which are very clearly defined in our Basic Law. Therefore, my request, however, to the management, to ensure that there is a designated report by the legislator, because otherwise I will have to speak more severely in the session hall that I am not doing this together because it is my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u83	Roman Mikhailovich, now and to the audience, so that we know what's going on. As for the invited ones, indeed, yes. These rules must be upheld by government officials. But now a new government is being formed, and this needs to be taken into account. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u84	I take that into account, Hennaday Andryovich. Nevertheless, there are certain constitutional standards that we cannot violate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u85	Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u86	Your opinion, Your Honorary Fellows, is proposing a bill on amending the Auditorial Activities Act on whether in the alternative project I am drawing your attention to such a situation that in the past, this bill, I have introduced, has been introduced to it and has been introduced an alternative bill by another national deputy, so I believe that my bill is the main one on the subject, and in this case the Cabinet of Ministers project should be regarded as an alternative, although I welcome this attempt by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine three years after we passed the relevant bills, to make the Auditorial Activities Act in accordance with these bills. Of course, three years -- this raises some doubts about authenticity, about the sincerity of the position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I have introduced a bill aimed at bringing Ukraine's current law on auditing into line with the law on accounting and financial reporting in Ukraine and the Act on Entrepreneurship in part of the licensing of business activities. And secondly, to improve the efficiency of the Auditor's office in Ukraine, to allow it to control its audit activities and to change its organizational structure. The bill on accounting and financial reporting in Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, amended the existing accounting principles, provided for national accounting, that is, the standards that correspond to, by the way, WTO standards, imposed mandatory financial reporting, defined financial reporting users, and identified the number of persons responsible for keeping accounting records. As a result, the audit object defined in the current Ukrainian Act on Auditing has changed from public accounting, as stated in the current edition of article 4 of the Act, to accounting and financial reporting, and the surpluses in the law on Auditing have become articles 8 - Public Accounting, Article 9 - “Users of Accounting”, and others, by the way, articles, I will not list them all. The changes made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Act on Entrepreneurship have been recognized as non-licensable, resulting in extra article 13 of the Act - "Licensing Auditorship". Gennady Andriyovich, I'm going to ask you to give me one more minute on the grounds that I was forced to pay attention to the constitutional procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u87	Okay, okay, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u88	To date, there is virtually no control over the audit activity in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Auditor’s Chamber, which, by its status, is not directly empowered to exercise control over its audit activities. Thus, the Ukrainian Auditorium has been deprived of the right to monitor, on its own initiative, the activities of auditors, audit firms that have a negative impact on the quality of the audit, and in some cases contribute to the existence of even fictitious audit. To address the issues mentioned above, it is suggested that the proposed changes be made to the law on auditory activity. The implementation of the bill will not require any cost from the Ukrainian budget. Taking into account the above, I propose a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Auditorship Act. On the basis of whose project is to be accepted as a basis, I want to pay attention to two circumstances. First of all, in my bill, it seems to me that there are more precise terms that just need to be defined from a legal point of view so that we can clearly understand what is meant by the notion of "audit," for example, terms such as "audit," "auditer," "audit firm," "audit services." This is one circumstance, so structurally from a legal point of view, I think that this project is better suited for adoption in the first reading. But another principle of the situation that I think should be taken into account by the Ukrainian people's deputies when considering this issue, which was not mentioned by the Deputy Secretary of State when he introduced his bill. The Cabinet version provides for the power of the Tax Administration to have its own member in the Auditor’s Chamber. The activities of the Tax Administration are, in my opinion, completely incompatible with the activities of the audit firms and the audit control. This must be the responsibility of the auditorium. So the presence or presence of a member or representative of the Tax Administration in the Auditor's Chamber can actually be interpreted as some kind of pressure from the tax inspection, which I think is totally unacceptable. In view of this situation, it is proposed that my bill be adopted as a basis and that the individual standards of the Cabinet version be taken into account in the preparation of this law for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed to listen to these questions in a simplified manner. But especially if you have any questions, please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please. Turn on Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Dear reporter, I have carefully studied both bills and I have a question: did you not come up with the same idea as I do now when you read a government bill that this law is open, first, lobbyist, secondly, it's made under someone specifically, and thirdly, there's another very powerful, powerful controlling body under a soft, soft name like an aditor's Chamber? Including, the powers given to the head are unchanged for five years, so dictatorial and so forth. How do you prevent this process and this itch is administrative? How do you see it? And as to the need for the audit provided for in this project, you did not make a statement. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u91	As for the Cabinet version, it seems to me that this very rule of mandatory auditing is better written than it is in my bill, I can honestly admit it. When I met, not one, many of these meetings were with representatives of the auditorium and the audience in Ukraine, they drew my attention to the need for such a standard. I agreed with them, though. I should have also said that it was my bill that was being developed in close cooperation with the experts of the audience of Ukraine. As for administrative pressure, I think there are some nuances in the Cabinet that fit into the general essence of your comments. I just want to draw attention to one other circumstance, except the one that I have already discussed. The Cabinet will provide a certificate to the audience or the audit firms, the companies that already have a license. The thing is, for three years now, you can't keep a license for this kind of activity after we've passed the relevant laws that I've talked about. I mean, practically, those firms that are now in the field of auditing, and they don't have a license, won't be able to get into the audience register. That is, it will most likely be subjective to the individual’s individual will in the auditorium. It seems to me that this procedure is greatly simplified in my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u92	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. The head of the subcommittee, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national ownership and investment of Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich, reports. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u93	Dear Gennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Agriculture, Property and Investments at its meeting considered both bills. The draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers on Auditing and the draft law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Audit Act, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zvaricz, and reports that the bill is proposed to align the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing with the terminology and standards of the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine. It's a very important moment to reconcile these bills, because so far there are disagreements between them. It is proposed that a register of auditors and audit firms be established, that an audit object, audit status, and the Audit Chamber be specified. Bills are designed to introduce the registration of audit firms and audiences instead of licensing. Once again, it's a very important moment -- registration instead of licensing. Because according to the Ukrainian Law on the License of Certain Economic Activities, audit activity is not included in the list of licensed activities. As you all well understand, the less licensing, the better it is and the better it is, the less it is. The bill repeals the Ukrainian citizenship requirement for the possibility of engaging in auditorial activities in Ukraine, which will allow Ukraine to bring its Auditing Activities Act into line with the requirements of the General Agreement on Trade in Services, which is part of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in WTO. It is also proposed to make appropriate changes to the articles that regulate the activities of the Auditor’s Chamber in order to improve its effectiveness. In doing so, the draft laws contain some differences. I wouldn't say they're alternative, because they're conceptually very similar, but the differences are certain. In particular, the draft law of the National Deputy of Ukraine proposes to remove from the Ukrainian law "on audit activity" articles relating to public accounting, users of accounting, responsibility for keeping the accounting order and determining the cases of mandatory audit, while the Cabinet of Ministers project provides for these articles to be left with only individual editorial details. Now for the committee's decision. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian law on audit activities submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Zvaric. In preparing him for his second reading, consider the proper proposals of the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u94	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Kirilovich. Let's move on to the discussion. A national MP signed up. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please. City hero of Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! A very important bill is now under consideration. In fact, it's about a new draft of the bill on auditing. Actually. In this version that brought in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and what the National MP Zvaric gives, there are also many novelties. Consider why we are adopting laws. To improve the lives of our entrepreneurs and businesses, or simply to give jobs to a certain category of people to provide them with a good piece of bread. So we're going to provide a good piece of bread to the audience, and we're going to provide the whole other people with a good main bill. In order to confirm this thesis, I will draw your attention to making changes to Article 10, which expands the mandatory audit to confirm the reliability and completeness of the annual financial report and spreads to state banks, insurance - I emphasize - state! Insurance companies, open stock companies, equity companies and bonds, investment companies, credit companies, currency and stock exchanges, depositors and depositories of securities, registrants, other management entities that are required to publish annual financial statements. Moreover, article 28 states that managers of the operators for whom a mandatory audit is established in the first article 10 of this Law are required to notify the owner of the contract for the annual financial audit by 1 December of this year. And tell me after this document is not completely lobbying just for the sake of one clan of people. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's think about entrepreneurs in Ukraine, about the development of this company that they're talking about in this rostrum, and they're doing everything they can to strangle them to the root, control them to the limit. Keep going. Will this bill benefit or harm? Which one's better? Both are worse if it comes to this, but with disgust you can vote in favour of the bill of the national deputy of the cook. With great disgust, as the Black man says. There are a lot of negatives in this project: the establishment of an institution, the introduction of a head institution in the Auditorium, what is the objectivity of the certification process? The removal from the law of mandatory annual rotation of the members of the Audit Chamber of at least 3 persons on the basis of the determination of personal ratings will result in the elimination of the control system of the Audit Chamber by the auditors, which may have a negative impact on the auditor certification system. The certification concept is entered. In fact, it's the same licensing that was only done by the public organization of the Society of Audiences. What are we doing, good people? Stop. I am surprised that no one has signed up for this important issue. Don't you care about businesses?Oh, my God! You don't care if it's all on the price that's going to be charged to the final consumer for every Ukrainian citizen?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u96	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u97	We have to stop these projects and not just let them push them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u98	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u99	The welding must also be stopped, but it can be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u100	Thank you. Question completed. The decision will take place on Thursday, December 12. Let's move on to the next question. Report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption, a report by the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the state of the fight against organized crime and the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of prosecutorial oversight in the area of the fight against organized crime. The committee proposes the following rules: a report by the head of the committee on the fight against organized crime and corruption - up to 20 minutes, answers to questions - in 10 minutes, reports - in 10 minutes each, discussions, proposals - up to 30 minutes. The overall length of the discussion is planned for 1 hour 40 minutes. I'm familiar with it. A letter from the Attorney General was received. We know that December 1st will be the 11th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian prosecutor's office. And today, at 10 o'clock, there's an extended board meeting dedicated to the appointment of better prosecutors and investigators, the award of the procurator's veterans, so there's a first Deputy Attorney General Winokurov here today. Okay, well, we'll get back to that. All right, all right, all right, settle down! Please! Turn on the microphone of Mr. Aleksandra Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u101	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, honourable fellow MPs, if today the head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, understands his responsibility for the service in dealing with this issue -- the information on this issue is about time to come to the Supreme Council session, we are already seeing that the Attorney General is trying to demonstrate his particular position. The reason you just mentioned is funny, and as a former prosecutor, you don't have to explain it. Veteranism and everything else is a wonderful thing, but you realize it's made up, drawn by the ears to this date, to this point. At the end of the day, however, the 10th Deputy Attorney General can handle this task. As far as the Attorney General is concerned, he can come in, meet, thank, assign someone, come in here, educate and then go back to the action he's exhibiting as a reason. Call the Attorney General here, don't embarrass Parliament, because you can't just let go of disrespect for the higher legislative body of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u102	I suggest you start listening to this question. In addition, we will find out. Okay, okay, okay. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u103	Vladimir Stretović, faction of our Ukraine, head of the Party of the Christian National Union. It is difficult for me, as do millions of my fellow countrymen, to live in our country through the distortion of its national mechanisms, injustice and dishonesty with its citizens, the distortion and oppression of democratic development principles. What is known about corruption is that rust is corrosive to metal, so corruption destroys the government’s apparatus by eating the morale of society. The level of corruption is a kind of thermometer of society, an indicator of its moral state. Just as for metal, corrosion fatigue means lowering the limits of its stamina, so for society, fatigue from corruption means lowering its resistance. The extremely high level of corruption of organized crime along with foreign political factors is evidence of today’s problems and seriously threatens the existence of the State as an organization of power for its citizens. "According to an international organization." Ukraine ranks 87th among 102 countries in terms of corruption, according to the perception of corruption, and is in a company of countries such as Bolivia, Cameroon and Uganda. That is why, with the coming to the Supreme Council of the New Political Forces, according to the requirements of section 2 of article 23 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Organization and Legal Principles of the Basis for Combating Corruption", today Parliament is to hear for the first time in the time of the act of the said law a report from the committee, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine on the state of the fight against organized crime, as well as a report by the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of prosecutorial oversight in the area of combating organized crime. A former head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Organized Crime, National Deputy Mikhailo Potekko, will participate in the discussion. I draw your attention to the fact that the above rule of law provides for such measures to be carried out at least once a year. Regrettably, this firm requirement of the law has not been met until now, and even more saddened that not only this requirement has not been met, so the committee suggests that we continue to strictly abide by the law and deal with this issue annually, especially since its sharpness will not decline soon. The following summer, the tenth anniversary will be fulfilled since the adoption of the law on the legal basis of the fight against organized crime, then it is time to ask yourself whether the objective set by article 2 of this law has been achieved, namely the establishment of control over organized crime, its localization, neutralization and elimination, and the elimination of the causes and conditions of organized crime. Our anti-corruption parliamentary committee in today’s warehouse is working for less than six months. All of us, today's parliamentarians, have experienced quite recently an electoral campaign that always quite clearly reflects the state of society, its degree of corruption and its level of impact on political, economic and other social processes. And for the next time, all of us have found that there is political corruption in Ukraine when, by means of pressure, threat, bribery by the members of the Supreme Council, individuals are chosen, not by the trust of citizens, but by those who are loyal and advantageous to today’s authorities. Despite tens of thousands of violations of electoral legislation in Ukraine, there is still no judgment in criminal cases that have been violated during elections. Not to mention the signs, it is known that power corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. We came to the Supreme Council, not from the Australian jungles, but from our real lives. Our committee from the early days of functioning has literally been plagued by an avalanche of complaints, appeals, sometimes just a wave of aid and protection from lawlessness, swaths, brutal violations of all constitutional rights and freedoms, and people are pleading for protection, not mostly from cave monsters, but from real authorities, officials and, most often, from those who work in law enforcement. "Save us from law enforcement" is the levitative of most Ukrainian citizens' appeals to the committee. So for each of our committee members, the answer to the question of whether or not to achieve the above basic law is obvious. Over the course of almost 10 years of this legislative act, the criminalization of all sides of our lives has deepened, crime has been lifting up its roof all the time, taking over all the new social spheres. Not only do law enforcement authorities no longer control its use but they are increasingly becoming obedient instruments in the hands of criminal brothers. After our report, you'll hear fairly standardized reports from law enforcement officials with countless valid figures on increasing control over organized crime, about destruction, and, by the way, what this term means, it's unknown because it's not in the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedural Code, a few hundred organized criminal groups, the removal of circumcision from some uncle on a remote farm, or the finding of 27 grams of narcotics in an illegal Asian migrant. You may be impressed by the specific discovery of corruptionist K., the chief executive at the Pension Fund in Krivy Rig, a seventh - category official, as requested by the head of the Personnel Department to arrange a free tram ticket on the name of her husband, exposed, brought to justice, fined, and reduced premium. There's no way you're going to hear in the reports about an even more terrifying case of corruption destruction, about the detention of a "hot" junior correctional officer who received a note from the convicted person asking him to call the last home for a reward of five dollars. Caught on a hot day, a corrupt man paid a cruel price for what he had done, got fired from his job, got fined, and was banned from taking office for three years. These are, in our view, very typical examples of today’s fight against corruption. If we look at judicial statistics, which is the most complete reflection of the outcome of anticorruption activities, we will see that in the first half of this year all the local courts of Ukraine have dealt with cases involving 4,000. individuals in accordance with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, of which only 1 000 are required by the administration. 960 people. I mean, less than half of what's being considered. But among those corrupters, only 13 deputies are not above the district council, 65 police officers, 30 other law enforcement officials, 95 military personnel, and 564 are rural and rural officials. And this is for the entire 48 million country that the world considers one of the most corrupt. In the light of this, we would like to hear from the heads of law enforcement agencies whether they will continue to be satisfied with such a state of affairs when anticorruption law and the practice of its application are a means of dealing with a petty official. Or it is time to review the very approach to this problem, to stop corrupting that level of administrative wrongdoing, thereby reducing the level of social danger. I'm going to point out that our committee will be initiating, together with interested bodies, a fundamental change in anti-corruption legislation. The time has come for us to clearly define the relationship between organized crime and corruption. It is difficult to accept that these are two distinct concepts. Because how can crime be organized when it's not covered in a corrupt "breath." Let's go to the Ministry of Internal Affairs' statistical report. During this year, 627 organized crime groups have been destroyed. Among them, however, are only 25 with corrupt connections. It only comes out every 25. And 452 groups are general criminals. It is evident that ordinary groups of thieves or robbers are mostly involved in the treatment of organized criminal groups. Again, the correctness of the latter is strongly confirmed by objective judicial statistics, which show that during the first half of this year, only 253 persons have been convicted by all local courts for committing crimes in organized crime groups. At the same time, all the military courts of the regions and the local courts of Winnitsky, Volinsky, Kirovgrad, Ravenska, Cherniewec and the city of Sevastopol are not condemned, of course, for the 253 people there are no district - level leaders, let alone more senior officials. What is the reason for this condition? I don't think there'll be enough naive people in this room to believe in the real absence of high-level corruption masterminds of organized crime. The consequences of their destructive activities are felt by almost every citizen, and the general reasons for the ineffective efforts of law enforcement officials to combat them can be described as such. First. The lack of the political will of the State’s superior leadership to fight corruption. The other one. The low political culture of the Ukrainian isteblishment of the elite. Third. The imperfection of the legislative base and the professional inability of law enforcement personnel. As for the need to improve legislation in this area, the committee is fully aware of it and has its position and plan of action. This is, above all, taking into account the process of drafting a new Criminal Procedure Code, the progressive provisions of existing legislation to combat organized crime, the provision of clear procedural procedures for detection, fixation, investigation of crimes committed by organized groups and criminal organizations, the protection of the interests of the parties involved in such cases, the characteristics of their judicial proceedings, the provision of legality and the unconditional observance of the rights of the person in the process of combating the crime, first of all by the active prosecutorial supervision of the stages of criminal proceedings. So in our opinion, it is appropriate to codify in the new Criminal Procedure Code the Act on the Fundamentals of Organization against Organized Crime, taking into account the realities of today. Since the early days of the work, the committee has taken the lead in dealing with the causes of corruption and its foundation — bribery. Therefore, we suggest that a special highly qualified group of consultants act as part of the committee to test every bill to ensure that their standards are corrupt would exclude them, and thus the legislative authorities would not give rise to this phenomenon. Today, it is impossible for 13 employees to do so by the secretariat of the committee. It must be admitted that the formal indicators in the area of crime do not convince the world community of the sincerity of our intentions to end the Mafia and not overcome the skepticism among the broad ranges of our population. The post office of the committee, the numerous personal meetings of its members with its citizens, testify to the complete defiance of the ability of law - enforcement officers to protect the average person from the seductive criminality of the established office. But what is there to say about the invulnerability of a constituency, when even a national MP can suddenly be pulled out of a car and thrown onto a curb? We all know, but we're mostly silent about super-democratic methods of formation, so-called, most of them six months after the election. In the entire civilized world where we yearn, most voters form. And we have an all-powerful person. It is sad and sad to realize that we are no longer surprised by bribery and intimidation. That is why even our colleague Turkinov’s official statement in this room about the specific facts of the bribery of deputies before the new prime minister’s vote. During this disgraceful process, I was personally approached by three national MPs who told me that they were trying to bribe from $300 to $500,000, but at my request to formalize these facts and write a corresponding statement they refused. For justice's sake, there were no votes among 234. It is common to know that the primary obligation to take practical steps to combat organized crime, according to existing legislation, is placed on the special divisions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the BSS, and the supervision of the legality of their actions is placed on the public prosecutor’s office. Almost a 10-year-old practice of operating this system is showing it more and more vividly, softly speaking, inefficiency. This is evidence not only of the flows of appeals by individual citizens but also of legal persons about the plight of the U.S. citizens, but also of materialization in the form of a bill submitted by a group of national deputies on the actual elimination of special divisions. The committee considered it in detail for days. There was a rather sharp and challenging discussion. It has been said that in recent years no resonant criminal case has gone to trial, initiated by the U.K.I., that the latter deals mainly with petty issues, has gone from fighting crime to what is called "breathing," actually taking up the service of criminals, covering them. The drafters also recalled that in the absence of resonant cases against organized criminals in the courts, the list of resonant activities of the people in the country was increasing. That is, raiding entrepreneurial structures, Goldetelek company. An attack on the National Deputy Sovkovic, a case against politically active citizens. The truth about the murder of Igor Alexandrov, who accused workers of corruption in Kramator’s U.S. Members of the committee have great doubts about the authenticity of the official version of the death of journalist Igor Kolomitz. At the same time, there was a clear lack of budget funding for special departments that pushed their leaders into the embrace of entrepreneurial structures at times far from sinless and heavy personnel, a situation in the special departments of the Ministry, where 1 in 9 workers today wrote a release application. Sadly, the methods of AIDS are impressive. For example, rough and cynical drug dumping was not limited to the use of Constantine Grigorishin, but it was against the Levian businessman Jaroslav Procajla, who was brutally persecuted by the local U.S. It is good that the Lviv investigators did not go after these fighters and closed the groundless criminal case. In Poltava, during a survey of the company’s appeal, which the police had been persecuting throughout the year, with 38 different checks, the company’s blockades in one year, the refusal to help her with money or the donation of five cars, it was found that it was Poltava’s WHO who was cruelly corroding stolen equipment with a gas capacitor. When security officials dared to detain a group of smugglers with a stolen condensate, the brothers sought help from UBZ. There are 33 conversations in just one night on the mobile phone of the group’s superiors, with the head of the special unit. An entrepreneur demanded money or a car, not a racketeer, but a district police chief. Any visit by the committee staff to the scene of complaints and appeals gives all new and new information about one and the same: Mafia authorities act completely and almost legally, because local fighters with criminality do not, as a minimum, touch them, but more often, cooperate fruitfully. In the city of Bila Church in Kyivska, a complaint was examined about an attempt to seize the shopping center by launching its labour force. And it turns out that the thrills are the same forces that have already acquired at the hands of the famous rubber combination "Rosava", which has also been stolen from the same combination. The D.A. is investigating a very interesting case of millions of hamster manipulations, and does she have the strength to get to the truth? A few years ago, the White Church had already killed a procurator of principle, and the case had never been brought to an end. And literally the day after that, the chief of the city police department was blown up. The White Church Mafia is well-known, and we are awaiting the new leadership of the U.S. Department of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs with decisive, orderly action in this city. In Bloody Rose, there was a complicity in the fact that a former criminal investigation officer had to go to the committee to somehow move from the scene of the violent death of his own son. The retired operative himself found that the son was likely killed by a group of drug addicts, and his former colleagues in the militia were cynically moving away from the applicant. He claims that there is a whole system of cover-up killings in the city, calling dozens of cases of suspicious deaths, but no one can hear him. A check on our workmate’s whereabouts revealed that these facts corresponded to reality. It is evident that AIDS in Bloody Rose is doing a more useful job for itself, such as managing the trade in metal. Thus, well - founded claims to special divisions in society have accumulated. What these units are going to be like in the future, it's still a question, but like now they shouldn't be. The new Head of GDR, Lieutenant General Cherkasov, fully agrees with the opinion of most members of the committee on the need for a thorough reorientation of the unit’s activities and the impossibility of its use in business or political divisions. It is very important to believe in such changes, and it is important to support them in legislation by reorganizing the structure of the ministry with a view to maximizing the full potential of this office for a practical breakthrough in the fight against organized crime. The role of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in ensuring the rule of law must be enhanced, especially in the field of intelligence. Our predecessors in the previous convening of a bill on amendments to the Act on Operational Search Activities have unfortunately failed to give the prosecution all the necessary weight to oversee the legality of this fairly specific and painful activity for our citizens, which gives corrupt fighters years in their own interests, uncontrollable and unpunished to knit a network of different divisions that have no bearing on the fight against crime. We need to put an end to this. Any operational work must be subtle, have certain lines, must be subject solely to the requirements of criminal justice. It must be admitted that in recent times the prosecutor’s office has been more demanding and critical of both the results of its own activities and the activities of special departments in the fight against crime. The Attorney General’s Office notes that these units alone reveal criminal groups that have high levels of organization, international connections, and corrupt relations with government officials and officials. That's exactly the kind of real, organized crime groups that didn't show up in the current year at 12, listen, in 12 regions of Ukraine, there are no criminal groups in official statistics today, and in 9 other regions there are one or two of them. More than 73 percent of all criminal groups found in special division reports are ordinary small, 2-3 people, unstable groups of robbers and robbers, and they have thus found that they did not have their own roof. We also agree with the board of directors of the prosecutor's office on the issue of imperfection, the aging of many provisions of existing anti-corruption legislation that do not take into account the reality of today. In particular, this refers to the problem of delimiting the powers of special departments to combat organized crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the BSS, other law enforcement agencies involved in such a fight, as well as the bodies called to promote special departments, namely: the supervisory services, Minfin, Nazbank, the holding fund. These and other questions, really. require, as noted above, a clear legislative settlement. At the same time, legislative shortcomings cannot be seen as one of the main causes of inefficiency in the fight against crime. And no new or additional laws will help the same prosecutor’s office to act decisively and persistently when it comes to violating the laws and rights of citizens. In virtually every case of such violations known to the committee, we have not witnessed the principled and uncompromising actions of the officials of the prosecutor's office, and quite often the prosecutors themselves appear to be perpetrators. In this regard, an example of a criminal case accusing Burak’s brothers of murdering a woman and her teenage son, the city of Kharkiv, is the case. Complaints of those involved in this sad story come to the committee for at least the last five years. The case went back to court for further investigation, indicating dozens of violent violations of the law committed in the course of the investigation. In the end, an indictment was handed down, which was left in effect, and which was one of the brothers sentenced forever, and the other to 12 years. But complaints continue to come, now mainly for the embezzlement of the many valuable assets of convicted persons — expensive strangers, weapons, jewelry, computers, and video technology. As a result of a visit to the city by the committee, a portion of the confiscated property was found to have disappeared. For five years, part of the car was used by both police and police officers. Under fairly questionable orders on behalf of the prisoner, his cars began to be implemented during the investigation. For some reason, the court’s executioners did not include in the list of assets subject to confiscation into the State’s income, much of which is contained in the following documents. The position of the prosecutor of the Krivobok district in this dark matter is more than surprising. The Attorney General’s Office is not in a hurry to find out a situation that clearly stains the prosecutor’s uniform. Instead, the honourable Henprocurorate informs the committee that he thinks it is impossible to listen to him at a meeting of the Supreme Council on any issue. To sum up, I am requesting the Attorney-General, supported by the members of the committee, to release the prosecutor in question from his position and to conduct appropriate official investigations. The relevant materials of the committee are sent to the prosecutor’s office. In the committee’s view, it is not only the legislative proxies that prevent law enforcement officials from being carefully appointed to the benches of at least a few high - ranking owners who ask for it. Instead, we read about hundreds of broken criminal cases, covert smuggling channels, illegal migration, active service activities in almost all areas of the country's life, the fight against corruption in government structures, that 708 criminal cases have been committed by the Security Service during this year, 153 of which are only a division of the BSS as a body of knowledge. Really. It is rightly pointed out that and the statutory competence of the Security Service is not justifiedly narrowed down, and there is virtually one smuggling in the criminal proceedings. And if the Security Service is doing a search and search for crimes, these materials are transferred to the Attorney General's Office for criminal offences. And we've talked about this a little bit more. One big topic is corruption in the judicial system. The citizen’s message of this evil comes hundreds of times, but the question is, Who and how is able to test it objectively? Neither the prosecutor’s office nor the C.E.S.A. report the detection of bribes among judges, court officials, this year. If there are such cases, these are isolated facts. And the legal burden, the violation of procedural rules, the making of rather strange decisions and judgments became almost natural, as did the mass failure to execute court decisions. In the Donetsk region alone, more than 400,000 court decisions remain unfulfilled at the moment, without more than 2 billion sums of money being collected. Who needs such justice when humans have been unable to wait for its final results for years? This is a direct violation of the human right to legal protection. Thus, the courts under the Constitution are independent, and any interference with the exercise of justice is unacceptable, but judicial corruption cannot tolerate any further society. That is why we invite the heads of the higher courts of the State, together with the Miniust, the Higher Council of Justice, the legal committees, to work together urgently on legislative proposals and organisational measures to combat corruption in the judiciary. So far, the level of cooperation with the judiciary cannot satisfy us. Just one example. Recently, the committee was approached by the city's Vasilkovsky Head Popovic, who reported on the efforts of officials of the Kyiv Authority at all costs to make it possible to appoint a judge of the Vasilk City Court of the former Inter-Procurator Stepanenko, who was released from office as a prosecutor for illegal activity, according to the instructions of the Interim Inquiry Commission of Parliament. The committee sent the relevant materials to Minist and the Superior Council of Justice, asked them to study them objectively and to deal with the situation, but the respected institutions replied that Stepanenko was a fine character, and he had no claim. All the documents concerning his appointment are impeccable, and since November 11th, this sad prosecutor has already done justice. Well, we're going to have to ask the committee this question before the President of the State about the dismissal of the judge in question, and the fair question is, "Doesn't that smell like cabbage?" - address the Ministry of Justice and the High Council of Justice. Our committee was already at its first meeting right after it was formed, and it was tasked to communicate as closely as possible with people, our electorate, to go to places, to practice maximum openness and openness at work, to cooperate with public organizations. On July 10th, we invited a group of residents of the Donetsk region to the meeting at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council and established numerous violations of the requirements of legislation, rights and freedoms of citizens. And that is the situation that was dictated by our visit to Donetsk on November 13. The travel session took place on November 13th. In the absence of time, I cannot report his move in detail, but I will say one sentence: there is reason for applicants to seek protection in Kiev from the self - control of the people in Donetsk. This is evidenced by at least the fate of the Serbian militia captain, an authorized niece-in-law, who was held in custody for six months in a fabricated criminal case -- a favorite drug drop -- for exposing the activity of a really serious, active group led by high-ranking U.S. citizens who stole tens of millions of dollars' worth of property and committed a series of resonant crimes. The Committee concluded that a decision had been taken and would return to the situation in the Donetsk region in April of the following year. Similarly, the committee plans to continue. In the immediate plans, travel meetings in the Odessa and Lviv areas are expected to be the most criminogenic, according to the committee. The current sessions will continue to address the most characteristic claims and appeals made by citizens and legal persons, with the next sharp question of the responsibility of those responsible for violations of the law of officials. Of course, members of our committee do not imagine their future work without close cooperation both with other committees and with law enforcement and other bodies whose activities have a direct or indirect impact on the state of the fight against this evil. In particular, we look forward to working with the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights. Therefore, the position of this distinguished official is somewhat misunderstood for the committee that the issue of combating organized crime and corruption does not fall within the competence of the Commissioner and her refusal to leave for a field meeting in Donetsk. But it is hard to imagine something more dangerous and oppressive to maintain human rights in the state than the system of high - ranking corruption involved in organized crime. This convinces Ukraine of the need to create a powerful, non-executive, executive branch with extraordinary legislative powers in the case of the Lithuanian Special Investigation Service or the Hong Kong Anticorruption Committee. But this too will be too little without widespread publicity, public participation, and objective media outlets participating in the discussion on this painful issue. In summary, the committee suggests that the level of organized crime in the state has reached an extremely high level, which poses a real threat to the constitutional foundations of the state system in Ukraine. Measures taken by law enforcement authorities against this evil are insufficient and ineffective. With a view to correcting this situation, we propose to create an inter-agency working group to make proposals: a legislative, editorial and personnel plan; which would allow for a breakthrough in this direction in a short time. However, these measures will not be sufficient until every citizen is aware of his responsibility for the future of this blessed territory that has borders, called Ukraine. Corruption sucks in from the budget, which is formed from the taxes paid, and then not by the honest clerk of the car washes away, without penalty puts a dirty hand in each of us's pockets. We hope that today’s discussion will awaken the peace of our minds and that society will declare corruption a real war that is extremely difficult by one committee. I call on those who are present for openness. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! We agreed 10 minutes to ask. Please sign in. Please put a name list on the board. Yuri Pavlenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u105	Dear Chief! Dear Vladimir Mikolaiovich! As a Ukrainian national deputy, I am approached by the students of Kyiv’s higher education institutions, who, starting on September 16, this year, are called to the district police departments or to the residence or to the place where the university is located and who are asked to give a witness to certain people’s photographs from the rally. Similar information during parliamentary hearings on youth policy was also referred to by Viacheslav Kirilenko as members of Ukraine’s youth movement. The fact that many of these students are 18 years old. I have such a question to you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, do you think the militias are legitimate and legitimate? Is this not a violation of the Constitution, of political persecution? Is the confidence of young people in the Ukrainian State and in the authorities of Ukraine being undermined? And why, after 11 years of independence, Ukraine to this day, Ukrainian students are being dragged into RAVD. And to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. During the parliamentary hearings, I asked you, unfortunately, not to address the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General of Ukraine in order to evaluate such actions by the police and to stop this militia abuse in relation to the students. And once again, I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, to call the Attorney General for our meeting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u106	To Vladimir Mikhailovich's question. We are often confused, called Vladimir Mikhailovich. But I say I'm not yet Litwin, please address this to Vladimir Mikhailovich, so I'm sorry, it's a trailer. As to the question. Dear colleague! You're in the second part of the answer to your first part. What you said is, really, it is. But I hope that the Minister of Internal Affairs is here, and he will provide a more comprehensive answer why the Ministry of Internal Affairs is interrogating students who have exercised their right to freedom of rallying and demonstrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u107	Please, Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u108	Dear reporter! I want you to answer the question of Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, my faction partner.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u109	Olga Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u110	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich! 161 constituency.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u111	The city of Konotap. Because we know in the city of Konotapi there were other political leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u112	The city of Konotap. You know, there was a deputy here yesterday who was so actively running around the hall, and he was all upsetting us so that we wouldn't raise the minimum wage and pension for our citizens. I don't remember his last name right now, he didn't remember me, and he kept saying there was no money in the budget, about how people would live like that, how to live for those coins? People are just yelling today, "There's no bread, there's nothing to wear, there's nothing to teach kids." There's another problem. The money that some have earned, they're in businesses, and they're massively coming to me with answers, if there's a court there and they've decided to return this money through court, then there are massive replies from executives, and from the Ministry of Justice that can't pay back money, because there's nothing left, there's nothing left, there's no sale, there's a sale, there's a sale, there's a cut on metal, there's no scrap metal, and there's no hope of you guys getting a salary. So I'm thinking to myself, where else do I go to ask these people to take the question down? Or is it that we no longer have such an organ in our country, or has it all gone so far? Would you please tell me why, then, you might be able to help me create these organs that were supposed to help these people to comply with the judgment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u113	Thank you. I repeat the words of the Holy Scriptures that the path to hell is well - intentioned. And when we passed the Law on State Service, Minuste was convinced that this is the very structure that could ensure the full execution of court decisions. But today we are convinced that there is a system before that, when court officials acted in the judicial structure, it was more effective and useful, and it is the committee that comes up with a mass of complaints about the actions of state executives who, by their authority, stop the decisions, send them back to court and thus are not interested in the motivation of the internal one, because their wages and, of course, this is 200 dollars, and the charges apply to millions of thousands of dollars. So today, the problem facing the state is how to provide a mechanism for the enforcement of court decisions. Let me give you an example. An entrepreneur from the city of Kirov, who has not been reimbursed for 11 million dollars in court, in his negotiable expenses, is going to go bankrupt, so 250 of our fellow citizens are going to lose their jobs. And these cases are not alone. The inefficiency of the executing judicial system today proves that something needs to be changed legislatively in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u114	Dmitri Svetash, the Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u115	Please pass the word to John Stepanovich Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u116	Ivan Stepanovich Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u117	Ivan Plush, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich! My colleague Pavlovenko also addressed Vladimir Mikhailovich and you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, calling him. I don't think you did him right. And I have a question. From our parliamentary work, I remember that when we considered such a question, I was no longer speaking for the hall, but behind the press ’ bed there was no room. And why would you explain that an extremely important question as a report by the committee's chairman on the fight against organized crime and corruption, as they say on every field, as they say on every intersection, is happening today in the presence of both the deputy corps and, it's surprising to me, the press. Is it the level of preparation, or is it the time of failure, or is it the interest that is lost?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u118	Ivan Stepanovich, thank you for the reminder. I have the answer to your question and it's twofold. First. In the disillusionment of citizens, most citizens are that fighting corruption in this country can produce some results. The other one. The dependence of mass-media Ukrainian resources on oligarchs and major corrupts, which I'm sure will not provide any information about this report and the facts that are published here, because they're not interested in this -- in order in this country. An example of this may be to judge our outgoing meeting in Donetsk on November 13, when all as one of the Dutch newspapers were splattering the committee, calling it a political farce, an order, and so forth. So let's do something. I call you to openness. If we don't, in a year, maybe in two and a half, we'll hang at the Yagodins and at the Performing Point, this table is called "List of Services, Services of Every State Official." But then we'll put a tax on these bribes and then even if there's something in the budget that's useful. Otherwise, leave hope to everyone who comes in here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u119	National Deputy Kosinov, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u120	Kosinov, 170 district, town of Harikov. Dear Vladimir Nikolayevich, you described in your statement one of the reasons for the corruption of the law enforcement agencies as insufficient funding. I have a question for you. Do you believe that the Supreme Council, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, should be responsible for the fact that the law enforcement agencies are now being set up for full accounting funding. Believe me, it's a shame to see when the head of the RPA is obliged to dress and wear his own staff and what he can do about it: either leave them unscrupulous and naked or do what he has to do to find the means to dress his people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u121	Thank you for asking. All of us went to school and remember the law on energy conservation: If something disappears in one place, it always comes in the other place, in the same way as in the budget. In order to complete the income section of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, someone needs to be removed. I'll tell you what: let's take down half of the President's Administration, who's going to be a duplicate of the Cabinet of Ministers, but we're reforming the country, and out of these millions of dollars we're going to allocate the IMF to technical rearms, and in a year when I'm going to report to you on the state of the fight against corruption, we're going to see what the results will be. You just have to look for a way out. In this country, many headstrong dignitaries do not want to find a way out of the situation that Ukraine is facing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u122	Basil Gorbal, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u123	I am an unconscionable optimist.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u124	Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, do you think this idea, which he is now welcoming, is the implementation of the bill on the elimination of AIDS, to the effect that actually organized crime will only strengthen its position. That's right, I already know that there are so many reports of liberation in this particular structure right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u125	Thank you. AS YOU have heard from the report approved by the committee’s decision, the elimination of AIDS is not going on today. The point is that AIDS should not continue to be what it was until now. In order to contain the impulses of some dishonest people who stain the militia uniform, not all of them without sin, there are appropriate elements everywhere that work illegally. We're going to be working on these, this commission works under the leadership of the Secretary of the Karnauha Committee, together with the Chief of UBZ Cherkasov, representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Board of Directors, to develop new legislative, regulatory positions on the structure. Forgive me for not being able to cut a chicken with golden eggs in Ukraine today. What about that array of information accumulated by these structures? The time will come, and it will become a "acquisition of publicity," as the classic said. The time will come and all of this will be made public, not hidden somewhere in the annals, and will not be beaten in the hands of the same depraved official of the district administration or the local neurotic, who is constantly intimidated by one or the other. So about the elimination of UBZ, I want to assure all the employees of this high hall, today is not the case. The new leadership of the U.K.I., we put great hopes on it, we do the appropriate personnel work, we do the organizational work, and you'll hear about the good work of the Department of Organized Crime, everything is decided by people, remember the well-known thesis: the personnel decide everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u126	National MP Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u127	Rudzkowski, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro My dear reporter, if I understand it correctly, then the absence of deputies in the Hall in discussing such a serious issue can be described as the fact that MPs are now in the regions fighting with the law enforcement agencies with corruption, because according to a report submitted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the level of corruption and crime in the regions is shrinking. For example, in Montenegro, I understand that Budk was released from office by Mikola Petrovich, governor. And the level, hopefully, will decrease. The Donetsks moved to Kiev, and there is hope that the level will decline. Can this be understood as a tendency to fight internal affairs and the Security Service against corruption?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u128	Thank you. Of course, your question has political implications, but I'll give you an expert answer. During a meeting in Donetsk, it was established that workers working in law enforcement agencies were from the Donetsk region itself. And this very moment has moved us to think about what we've known since we were young, from the comsomol where we've been, and so knows each other well. So in the decision of the committee, we asked the President and the heads of the law enforcement agencies to rotate the steering personnel on an urgent basis, and in the Donetsk region to do so at the district level so that they wouldn't be able to raise capital and power. And it's grown very much. And your thesis on this with another warning -- won't that mechanism that is in the Donetsk region spread across Ukraine? We need to be on guard here, as wrote Julius Wsuczek. Be Watchful!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u129	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u130	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I thank you for listening carefully, but I want to say that without our efforts together, our efforts will prove futile. So I'm going to Vladimir Mikhailovich, to all my colleagues, let's roll up the sleeve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are 20 people who have not been able to ask their questions. I invite you to speak with the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Alexanderovich Smyrnov. Ten minutes. You were read to the prosecutor’s office, and I immediately asked them to contact the prosecutor and submit their requests. Please, Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Organized crime is indeed a serious destabilizing factor that has a negative impact on Ukraine’s socioeconomic situation and international image. This was particularly felt in the early 1990s, when there was a surge of racketeering, banditry and custom killings. Attempts have been made to take over the economy criminally. It is only natural that in 1991 the government set up special units to combat organized crime. Is such an approach justified? You could say that in the numeral language, but more. In recent years, it is worth considering that entire criminal empires have disappeared in various parts of our country. There was no mystery and many of the resonant crimes they committed -- the murder of the national deputies of Gethtman, Sherban, the director of Naftohimika Borisov, the head of Rybika's Diplomatic Reservoir, the director general of Alcheva's metallurgical combination of Krakhod, and many others. Customers and performers are installed. Only in the current year have 25 hit-and-runs been opened. All of this has had a positive impact on the criminal situation. Over the past five years, the number of reported crimes has decreased by more than a hundred thousand. Criminals have eliminated 25,000 guns, firearms capable of arming 17 regiments, and nearly 4 tons of explosives sufficient to produce more than 5,000 antipersonnel mines. The crime rate was 85 percent, and for example in Belarus, Russia, Poland, it ranges from 50 percent to 60 percent. In the current year, 340,000 people were brought to criminal justice. In places of deprivation of liberty, there are only 20,000 deaths, 16,000 robberies, 870 bandits, and 740 of the most dangerous criminals are sentenced to life imprisonment. The high weight of the shadow sector of the economy and the weakening of state control over processes in key areas of farming allow organized crime to receive illegal income. Let's take the budget. Last year alone, according to the CIA, a billion and a half dollars were removed from the budget. Nine and a half thousand crimes have been documented, of which 440 million dollars have been damaged, confirming the acuteity of the problem. The main reason is seen in the current practice of moneyless calculations. Transparency in the budget distribution, eliminating such schemes will allow the main channels of their outflow to shadow. The shadow sector has 14 billion unreturned bracelets for electricity supply. These are the consequences of applying budget calculations, involving commercial mediators who are parasitic in the field. For example, the two commercial structures that made a deal with Zaporezka AES for the return of 118 million dollars from business ventures were based on AES only for 1.4 million dollars in living money and 38 million bills in non-individual bills and products. Negative processes are accompanied by property reform in an agribusiness complex, and mass abuse is permitted, especially in land and property degradation. Already this year, two and a half thousand leaders have been brought to criminal responsibility. Because it is this category of people that has the ability to manage $1.6 billion worth of unrequited peasant property. Demands immediate reinforcement of control over the use of state property. The problem is to finally break the practice of not only not receiving dividends but also often losing considerable sums from the vast majority of officials while disposing of property outside the privatization process. Yes, I'm going to post a ZAT person." "oil" without the knowledge of the Holding Fund, which has 43 percent of the shares of the company, has appeared to the suppliers in front of commercial structures and has given banks a service facility called the Cremencucci oil refinery. As a result of the bankruptcy of commercial structures, a loan of $30.5 million has not been repaid. The claim for damages is presented to the factory. Our field of activity with regard to these processes will only expand. Because the amount of criminal damage in 240 million dollars is not compared to any real damage to the state. According to experts outside the banks, 24 million dollars is spent in cash. The amount not to return and the prolonged loans exceed 37 billion. In our view, this is the result of the closure of the banking system from law enforcement agencies, the lack of proper control by Nazbank over commercial banks, the continuation of lending by banks without ensuring their return. This situation is actively used by organized crime to generate criminal income. A bright illustration of the criminalisation of the banking system is the bankruptcy of the Bank of Ukraine. As a result, more than three hundred leaders of different rank are drawn to criminal responsibility. The damage is about half a billion dollars. Spectre of accusations from negligence to bribery. The battle against corruption remains an object of careful attention. In the current year, courts have been called to account for violating the Ukrainian Anti - Corruption Act of 1,559 persons. We agree with the chief officials of the fifth, seventh, and deputies of the village and village councils. But among the 81 government officials attracted to the first and fourth categories. They include the vice president of the Ukrainian State Building Corporation, the heads of the district governments, the first deputy head of the district administration of land, the head of the city council, and others. Uncertain facts about the detection of organized criminal groups by corrupt connections This year, 25 of these groups have been prosecuted. They are followed by 10 civil servants in the second and fourth categories, 40th and 7th categories, and 14 officials in the executive branch. At the same time, the Ukrainian Anti - Corruption Act is practically inconsistent with criminal law. Today, we have no idea of corruption. At the same time, we must recognize that we are not working effectively enough. These remain in some regions of known criminal groups, not weakening the impact of criminality on individual sectors of the national economy, not all channels of shadow circulation of capital are covered, not always impeccable, and the actions of individual special forces personnel. These questions were the subject of an analysis of an expanded meeting of the Ministry’s College. We considered them in principle, gave a sharp critical assessment of the situation. In recent times, plans have been made to eliminate AIDS, an overall reduction in the police force. Such a position is not motivated by anything. I'm familiar with it. In the European Union, a police officer serves 283 citizens. We have this number one and a half times. And organized crime units exist in every developed country. On the other side. The police can be cut short, but what can we achieve? We'll be back in the '90s. In our country, every day, up to twenty willful murders and serious bodily damage, about a thousand crimes. Intermediation, up to 100 kilograms of narcotic raw materials, is eliminated every three days by the drug labs. I also have to remind you of a million 300,000 people who are on the inside. Some 700 organized crime groups were discovered this year, and some 70 gangs of formations were shut down. It can be said with confidence that today's deterrent to its further development is the creation of a system against organized crime, which includes the relevant committees of the Supreme Council, the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime, the General Prosecutor's Office, the BSS, the IMF and other law enforcement agencies. It seems that this system is hindering someone. Therefore, even the legitimate actions of the police, if they affect one’s interests, are deemed to be biased. In my opinion, the police can't be nice or bad. It performs its functions as a State. And people working in this system are entitled to an objective assessment of their work. This attitude toward law enforcement is demonstrated by all European countries, including Russia and other neighbors, where they are respected and appreciated. Dear National Deputies! The need to improve the fight against organized crime is evident. First of all, with regard to the establishment of legislation. If you'll excuse me, a few minutes. Ukraine’s laws on organizational legal principles for the fight against organized crime, judicial expertise, the State Audit Service, lawyers, and others are required to be supplemented. In addition, many of the bills have already been reconciled. I'd like to focus on the draft arms law. The consequences of its adoption. And we're going to have problems similar to the American ones, where dozens of children are killed in schools with guns like that. Dear National Deputies! Taking advantage of the possibility, I would like to point out once again that the IMF’s financial needs are accounted for by only 26 percent of the budget. The fifth part of the employees are profited below the subsistence minimum. What can be expected of a militiaman living in poverty with authority? Less than 8 percent of the militia's assets are materially and technologically secured. And that's what they call the police budget. We are urged to ask for money from various funds or to make money on the people, providing them with payment of services. Uncertainty in tomorrow’s last two months alone has resulted in 3,000 reports of release. In keeping with this trend, it is a professional nucleus. Weaker. Internal Affairs employees work under constant risk, increased physical and psychological stress. During our years of independence in peacetime, we lost practically an entire regiment. Division became disabled. This year alone, 30 people were killed and 173 were injured. In spite of all the difficulties, the individual structure is expected to be adequately cared for by the legislators, including the preservation of statutory social guarantees. And to the end. With full responsibility, I say that the Ministry of Internal Affairs will take all possible measures to ensure the rule of law and stability of the country, protecting every citizen of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u133	Thank you. Yuri Alexanderovich, please sit down. Dear National Deputies! You voted the rules, there was a committee regulation. Have a seat, please. Offered, I didn't offer it. Please welcome the head of the Security Service, Radchenko Vladimir Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the committee has proposed rules for dealing with this issue, you have agreed. I was gone at this time. What kind of claims may there be for me? Please, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u134	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u135	Please. Vladimir Ivanovich, please. Dear colleagues! I'm telling you again. The committee proposed rules of procedure for the consideration of the matter. First deputy. You can listen, I'm listening. Let me tell you again. Do you think the tone of voice will be convincing? No, it's not. I'm telling you again. The committee proposed a procedure for dealing with the matter. Well, let me say the word! What's the order? Once again, my fellow Members, the committee has proposed a procedure for dealing with this issue. I'll do it again. Let me finish. The first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine read it. And when I went into the session room, he told me he agreed. I'll say it again. Agreed. So let's now, your honors, vote and figure out how much we're going to consider this question -- 2 hours, 3 hours, with questions, no questions asked. No problem. That's it. 45 minutes of deliberation. The committee offered an hour of 40, we agreed. You want another one, let's make suggestions. Let the committee head make proposals, we'll vote on them. Please. One minute! I want to listen to the committee head. Please, Volodymyr Mikolajovich Stretovic. Please, Alexander Frost. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u136	Dear Volodymyr Mihailovich, head of the committee, could have introduced the procedure, the draft procedure could have failed, it did not matter, since the Rules had written down the procedure. It provides information and answers to questions. This is a prerequisite. And so if we have to continue, let's say, 20 to 30 minutes of consideration of this issue, we can continue. And we didn't vote on that proposal, so we don't have to vote on another one. This is already provided in the Rules. And you yourself realize that now the minister himself is interested in answering questions because he wants to clarify his position and the position of the Ministry in this regard, on the subject under discussion. You must be able to answer the minister’s questions. This is provided for in the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u137	Alexander Aleksandrovich, distinguished colleagues, one minute, you know the Rules as no one does. That according to Rule 45 minutes per question. Everything else is defined separately. Right? Right? What's "no"? Read the Rules, take them, then you'll be "no". Right? So let's just define now and work as hard as we can. Where's Stretovich? Please. Strutovich, have you offered the procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, since the issue was scheduled for Wednesday, you remember that, yes, and so I was restricted by the leaders of the Apparatus, that it should be no more than an hour and a half. That's an hour and a half over there. And try the four reporters and mine, and the MPs' speeches in an hour of thirty press. We've already taken it for an hour and a half. I came to you, I said there are no questions. And the MPs say, can you ask the minister questions? They say add five minutes to your authority to ask questions. When else can MPs meet the minister directly? Did I tell you about that? I wanted to kill two rabbits. It didn't work out because they weren't working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, let's not cause any disturbance. Vladimir Ivanovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, please! Gmir's national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u140	Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have here a list of rapporteurs. Here's what I'm going to see, not the information, but the reports, a few people. We can indeed vote, but only in order to reduce the reports from Stretovic's report. They are defined as equal. Vladimir Mihajlovich, if there was any information, could not answer the questions. But we do have reports, and the form report implies answers to questions. We can argue about how much time has been allocated, but we cannot argue whether or not to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, let's take five minutes or seven to ask you a question, and we're not going to have this discussion. But, dear colleagues, I would like to reiterate that there is no reason to make accusations against one another. I would like to say that in order to prepare this question, it was not necessary to jump in, and I fully agree with John Stepanovich, not the jump he was making. How did the committee prepare this, but seriously, where did the Committee's material generalize the information? None. Where did the project go? None. I think there should be less politics here and there should be more professionalism. This is a 100 percent blame on the committee. We've carried it twice, but there's no prepared document. We want to go out on emotion and politics instead of having a serious conversation. Please, Ivan Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u142	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you said the truth, and I want to, I've drawn my hand because Sergey Petrovich Gmira, my colleague, explained what I was going to say. That is, when the information is given, the Head has the right not to give, but on request of the Hall he can take into account the requirement of the Hall. But when the report, you couldn't press in 45 minutes, because it says "reports," they'll report. That's the reporter plus the question, plus the presentations and the discussions. So you're quite right to suggest, let's get out of this situation and take into account the time, let's give the ministers the opportunity to answer the questions, but in the agreed Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u143	I'm telling the committee head again that the information that was collected from the power structures, that's why I did it, without the committee, I'd sew it up and hand it over to the people's deputies. The committee should discuss at its meeting, adopt a draft decision, process and give to the deputies the essence rather than the set of maculatures. Please, Yuri Alexanderovich on the rostrum. Let's call things our names after all. Please sign up, 7 minutes per question. Please sign up. Please highlight those who sign up for the question. Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u144	Dear Yuri Alexanderovich, you know, I have a lot of questions for you, but I don't think I have to put them in an hour. I'm going to ask two painful questions right now that aren't in my district. Recently, on November 27, leaders disappeared untraceable. The organization in Odessa, Andriy Tatarchuk and the local authorities of internal affairs are fiercely refusing to accept any request for that person's search, citing that there are no normal terms there, even though we understand that the disappearance of any person from a political asset is already a matter of concern. And once again in the same Odessa, we have not once again had a situation, and you remember that era of ours, of correspondence, when I was always denied the Yusov case, when I asked one question: will people be punished who, in violation of the presumption of innocence, are having very lifesaving conversations in places of study, in places where this young man lived for a crime that was not proven, which was then removed. I'd like to ask these two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u145	Thank you. As for Tatarchuk in Odessa, I only learned about this today in the session hall, as the distinguished MP Gurvitz told me. I can tell you one thing that the police cannot refuse to accept a missing person's claim. That's not true. Another matter that is of interest to the party concerned, we are all interested in the fact that, on the part of the complainant, it is said that in two days that he will be found, believe me, the operational search for the location of Tatarchuk is being carried out. But at the same time, the police probably shouldn't tell their relatives that he was killed, that he was abducted. Maybe it's better to say that yes, he's gone, yes, he will. But believe me, there's a search party going on. I'll take care of this. With regard to Yusova, allow me to report to you separately on this staff. I can't answer the exact question about Yusova right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u146	National MP Domansky, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u147	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I was pushing her. I'm asking you to include Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u148	Please, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u149	Yuri Alexanderovich, I have a question. I don't remember exactly what number, but in the last summoning, your predecessor Kravchenko, speaking out of this rostrum, has officially stated that the cases that have been broken are close to the 6th or 7th National Deputies, or 15th National Deputies, is Valentina Petrovna giving me a hint. Crimes against national MPs have been violated. And in time they, or soon they will be published and the result will be known. Well, did your predecessor go away, and those things are closed or are they still being investigated and will they ever be published? And that's what it's going to lead to, isn't it? And the second question. I'm here to pick up your department's personnel. I've been addressing you personally since I called you in the past for, well, improper actions by the chief of UBZ Lubna, there is such a city in Poltavščina, Jarmola Grigory. And your assistants told me several times that there are absolutely no violations on his part. But in the end, after my third call, he's still out of work. Where, then, were the violations taken if they were not at first? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u150	Thank you. With regard to the 15 cases that my predecessor allegedly referred to in this room, I have no such information, but I can only say that there are no MPs in the Ministry of Internal Affairs so far. With regard to Chief Lubna of UBOP, I cannot answer this question either. A lot of them. If you don't mind, I'll make a note here for myself. I'm just going to tell you today why he was fired and why he wasn't fired in his own time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u151	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please, Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u152	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. I'm asking you to pass the word to Alexander Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u153	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u154	Dear Yuri Alexanderovich, two very specific questions. It has been reported that The Ministry of Internal Affairs conducted a full investigation into the murder of Georgia Gongadze and the criminals found, the truth is they're already killed, it's the Cyclops and others. That's my question. That this was a lie was clear from the outset, and then it all came to light, and the prosecution rejected that version. But I have a question, did you investigate where these people were buried in the car and where George Gongadze was buried? You investigated, punished, and so on, answer that question. And the second. Why, when Verduk was buried, the bogeyman who allegedly killed him in a version, Militia, Alexandrov, why did the militia car that drove him to the journalist's cemetery keep them in its car until they buried Verduk? How will you explain this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u155	Thank you. When I said here on the Supreme Council, I justified myself here and reported to the MPs at the same time, yes, there was information, yes, I thought I'd take off, let's say, not tension, but just report that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is working, there's that kind of information. It was, in principle, in terms of logic at the beginning, and then here I was reporting to the MPs about this Cyclops. As for the pattern found in the car, the ground was found in the car, the ground was found in the car, the pattern when the body was discovered, it was dug up in clothes, not quite as they say. Who put it down, I can't say. That scheme was in the body when he was dug up, it's hard to tell who put it down. Maybe he put it to himself, maybe someone put it to him. But the fact that the scheme was dug up along with the body, and we didn't dig up the body, we dug up witnesses and witnesses. As for the land, yes, the workers inspected the car and found land. According to the expert, it is similar on some grounds to the land where the body was located. I can't say anything more about this. Yeah, about Verduk. For me, there's new information that police officers wouldn't allow journalists to bury a body. I'll take care of it. That's new information for me. This is the first I've heard of her.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u156	National Deputy Razwadowski. A group called Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u157	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Yuri Alexanderovich! First of all, I would like to thank you from our faction for the report you made for us today in the Supreme Council. And I think the work of the police, first of all, is satisfied with the people's deputies, as they say in their absence today in the session room. Because most of them are missing. I think on our part, first of all, we should give the funding that should be in the Supreme Council today. Thank you for understanding that, dear colleagues. Financing, first of all, to give what is needed for the militia. It's different. At the legislative level, to make those laws on combating corruption that we would really have today and that would be necessary for our nation. And I'll have questions for you next. Please tell us what role should be strengthened by the district inspectors who would play in the prevention and detection of crimes. That's the question. The other one. How do you think it's possible to create a public college with the Ministry of Public Affairs in Ukraine to strengthen the Ministry's cooperation with the public opinion in order to be transparent in its work? What do you think? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u158	Thank you. As far as funding is concerned, I will no longer talk about it. It's said to be an assessment of the MPs themselves. Good funding, medium or, let's say, bad or nothing. I'm not going to spread around here anymore, talking about the fragility of our existence. With regard to the work of district police inspectors. This must certainly be the main figure in the system of internal affairs. But this figure must really be a figure at the site. She must have a car, she must have an assistant with her, at least one, to go to no one in a deaf village with a knife. He doesn't have an assistant. I would like every district inspector, of course, to have housing on the site, which is so far away, he lives tens of miles away. There was a radio, there was a phone. We pay due attention to this issue. I have decided by my decision to relieve the district inspectors of all their non-proprietary functions, from duty, from convoys and so on, so that they may work on the site. And we're going to deal with this problem. I'm just glad to hear the question that he's really worried about us, especially the population. As far as the public college is concerned. Yes, I promise before the deputies, I will make such proposals on my part, so that this panel will be established in December literally with the representation of the widest spectrum of deputies here, especially the people's deputies from all factions, so that we can find out the relationship not here in the sessional room, but in the panels and decide accordingly. In December, such proposals will surely follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u159	Thank you, Yuri Alexanderovich. Time's up. Dear colleagues! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What are you insisting?Oh, my God! Well, we made a deal with you. Please, have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u160	I can take you individually.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u161	Let's take the day of questions and answers, vote and do it. No problem. I agree. 25 people recorded. There's no need to make exceptions. Please, the head of the Security Service is invited to report to Radchenko Vladimir Ivanovich. We're talking about 10 minutes and 7 questions and an answer. Yeah? No objections? So there won't be any pretenses. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies! A criminogenic analysis in Ukraine gives reasons to claim that organized crime, including violent economic orientation, is being reorientated. In doing so, simple income schemes are replaced by multi-stage financial combinations that are developed by qualified professionals without the participation of corrupt officials. As a result of this situation, the country's economic growth rate, its low credit and investment ratings, and its unacceptably high levels of economic shadowing are unsatisfactory. The practical activities of the Security Service to combat organized crime and corruption as a law enforcement agency are based solely on actual legislation. Taking into account developments in the state, assessments of internal and external threats of national security, the work of the branches of the BSS is aimed at decriminalizing and detining the economy, helping the authorities of the State to stabilize them, and taking preventive and proactive measures. In addition to Ukraine's laws on organizational and legal bases for combating organized crime and on combating corruption, the legal field in the fight against criminalization of the Security Service is defined by the articles of the Criminal Code on smuggling, drug smuggling as a component of our immediate crime, where we are obliged to detect and violate criminal cases, as well as the legalization of money and other property acquired by criminal means, 39 articles, and the creation of a criminal organization, and only on condition that pre-emptive crimes are directly under investigation by the authorities of the BSB, which is again smuggling and drug smuggling. [[201-a]] [[305th]] [[255th]] All other intelligence materials from this problem are transferred to the prosecutor’s office or the police. As to the results of our work, which we will report twice a year to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's profile committee, I will give you the basics of the current year. More than a thousand criminal cases have been committed by BS units, of which 593 have been sued with indictments to the prosecution and the court. And another 1,648 criminal cases were committed against our materials, handed over to the police and the prosecution. The total economic impact of service activities for 2002 is 726.6 million dollars. In particular, it has been converted to the state budget by confiscation of the courts' sentences and the orders of investigators and the collection of fines of 567 million currency dollars unlawfully located abroad for an amount equivalent to 210 million dollars. That's right. To implement the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, 1,363 administrative courts have drawn up and discussed the corruption of officials authorized to perform the functions of the State. According to our material, 708 criminal cases of official crime and bribery have been committed. Eighty - five channels of illegal migration have been eliminated across the state border, with 2,433 foreigners detained, 436 of whom have been removed outside Ukraine. According to the evidence of crimes related to illegal migration and trafficking in human beings, 77 criminal cases have been committed. As an effective measure of prejudice to the State of the BSS within its competence, a systematic legal analysis of prominent materials and decisions is being carried out. In particular, if a specific example were to be carried out, an additional issue of ZAT's shares here and a reduced size of the government's package, the state would have suffered a loss of $331 million. Money, otherwise 150 million dollars. That's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, This is for the attempt of a commercial structure, such as Orion-96, to take possession of a gas condensate of the state-owned VAT firm Ukrnafta. In general, with the results of the Action Security Service in the current year, it has been warned that economic losses amounting to 4.4 million dollars will be incurred. That's right. According to the legal field and taking into account the small number of special divisions of the BSS in the fight against corruption and organized crime, I would like to say that there are only 800 people in Ukraine. 300 is the principal office in Kiev and only 500 are in other departments throughout Ukraine. The structure is also governed by priority functions that are based on the prevention and detection of crimes that pose a real threat to the vital interests of the State, the rights and freedoms of citizens. The main focus is on the most profitable sectors of the economy, to which both criminality and anti-money-laundering are active. In the sector, 21 criminal cases have been committed in the financial banking sector, 17, in the external economic sphere, especially in the import of goods, exports of metal products and sunflower seeds - 303, in the securities market - 17 and in the APC - 47. For example, in the Poltava region, the Poltava Tax Police Department, according to the BAF materials, has a fine of 153 million dollars for the "Poltahgas mining" of officials who illegally unloaded natural gas in a tax mortgage. In Zaporsky, a criminal case was committed against the first deputy head of the United State Tax Inspectorate of Energodar, who, acting in the interests of VP Zaporzička AES, committed forgery and did not reach the State budget for 5.3 million dollars. Well, there's a lot of examples here. In the current year, the Security Service has suspended the activities of 22 criminal groups of smugglers under article 201 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. During this period, 193 criminal cases against nearly 300 individuals have been brought to trial, after which more than 40 million dollars have been returned to the State. In addition, the removal of property and value for 72.5 million dollars for the rest of criminal cases is only 601 that remain in service. Only two Security Service operations have eliminated gold products, including diamonds, weighing more than 100 pounds [130 kg]. Now the question is, where do you get 400,000 bracelets to do the expertise? We don't have that kind of money, of course. Despite increased anti-trafficking and domestic market protection measures, the problem of maintaining effective legislation on channels of external economic activity remains rather acute. It does not protect the State's interest in the position of individual courts against decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to import goods into the customs territory of Ukraine by joint undertakings, resulting in only three months now the State has not received from, for example, one of them, the Contour Society, more than 28 million dollars of compulsory customs payments. And these are businesses that take into account their children's structures, hundreds of them. That's where the budget says those plums are filled. We have raised this issue before the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which has provided appropriate clarifications on the spot, but the case is not moving. In view of the growing demand for drugs in the world and Ukraine, the profitability of the drug business has in fact been found at the crossroads of drug smuggling. In doing so, if our nation was previously viewed as international drug syndicates, mainly as transitive on the road to the West, it is now a place of production and markets for drug trafficking, including heavy drugs. Realizing that the drug business is becoming one of the nation’s major threats to the gene pool and is fueling almost all criminal manifestations, as well as being the main economic agents of international terrorism, the Security Service has increased this trend in the current year, thanks to the redistribution of forces. Overall, in the current year, 53 organized crime groups have been shut down, 22 established drug smuggling channels have been eliminated, and three synthetic drugs laboratories have been shut down. Over 200 pounds of heroin, 20 kilograms of pentalin and over 60 pounds of psychotropic substances, 18 and a half tons of narcotics, over 20 liters of opium, and so on. In particular, from 20 kilograms [20 kg] of pentanil synthetic opiate removed from the underground laboratory, which is 40 times more powerful than heroin. make 4 million doses. Six members of one of the identified criminal groups this year, including three U.S. citizens, who have created a network of smuggling heroin shipments from South West Asia, are sentenced to 7 to 12 years' imprisonment. I would stress that the work of the BSS on this line is supposed to be effective, but the problem remains the highest priority from the point of view of the country’s security. Finally, I would like to point out that the special composition of the Security Service understands the importance of the tasks arising from the state of the criminogenic situation in the State. It will continue to operate exclusively within the framework of the Constitution of Actual Legislation, in the interests of ensuring Ukraine's national security, the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u163	Please sign up if you have any questions. Let's take a look at the board. Paul Matvienko, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u164	Thank you! 66 constituency, Ukrainian National Economic Development Party. Dear Vladimir Ivanovich, tell us whether the Ukrainian Security Service is satisfied with the legal field in which the fight against corruption takes place? And what do you think needs to be done to improve?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u165	I can honestly say that when, after the country's independence, the Criminogenic situation was entrusted to the Security Service to resolve these issues, that was justified. It remains vindicated today, since most activities need search methods that are available to the ministry. But in the future, of course, another specific body should deal with these issues. Because it's just a segment of our activity, the main unit is intelligence, counterintelligence and protection of the Constitution, protection of the independence of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u166	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u167	Dear reporter, I, you know, as your ex-con, have a lot of questions to ask you, but I'm going to try to put them into a few. First of all, do you think it will help to fight corruption when the entire opposition is held accountable for its criminal acts? Why I'm asking this question because, you know, the number of people you call 800 is 300 in Kiev, 500 in Ukraine. So how many of them work for the opposition? How many of them are involved in operational work with opposition leaders and UNA UNSO members. For example, I've written to you, I haven't received any answers so far about the illegal operational activity that was carried out in my community reception by your employees? Again, one last question. Will you be content with your sentence of March 9 from 3 to 10 years? Because your employees are constantly investigating the trial and twisting the hands of Judge Wolika for having carried out a legitimate decision and then releasing the National MP, Andrew Schleak, to change the precautionary measure and then to complete the case. I personally heard the conversation, you know the names of these employees in your service, who, in a rough form, explained why he was wrong and what they would do to him if he was still the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u168	Your Honor! I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am organizing the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service, not in political terms, but in accordance with the legislation that is today, and I will do what the law provides. Regarding the trial of UNA UNSO members. After the events on March 9, last year, I spoke from this rostrum and said, "My job is to investigate this case, to bring it to trial, and let the court decide everything about the guilt, the punishment of this case." It was done in the shortest terms, and the case is in court. And the last. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that we have not worked or worked for any political party operating under the current legislation, with the requirements of the Constitution. Where we have a legal basis, we will go according to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u169	People's Deputy Goernik, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u170	Dear Volodymyr Ivanovich! The materials we've been given show in one of the Ministry's internal affairs materials that we have organized crime declines by 10 percent, and every year it decreases, and the court's material contains material that has doubled in comparison with 1990, the number of convicted people has doubled. In your opinion, where exactly is the truth, is it shrinking or increasing? That's the first question. The second question. Again, this reference work says that the dissolution of state and private property decreased by 42 percent. Are you aware of such problems as the theft of oil products, solar power lines, oil pipelines, and oil wells that have no service to which any organized crime has been detected? And how does this work out? And the third question concerns the case of the candidate for the Scribblyak candidate who was killed in the election, and the investigation was brought to your attention. And how does it continue to progress? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u171	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the last one. It was taken to our service because the qualification was a possible terrorist act. To this day I can say, and this is now being considered by the prosecutor's office, our proposals -- political premeditations and the political subtext of this crime -- we haven't found. That's the first one. The other thing is that this does not mean that the course of the investigation will be halted. The investigation will be held and we will, Service, take a direct part in it. What you say about the drills and the holes that are being made there. We've been approached with this request, well, you know, it's not our business, frankly, but when we did, we offered a very normal scheme along with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's basically about creating appropriate structures of a paramilitary nature, you know, that really protect them, because most of these oil products and pipelines, more loyally, can't be protected by anyone, the more they go through in some places that are so hard to access, they say, areas. And that has some effect. That's what I see. What about first? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u172	And the first is statistics.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u173	What about statistics? There's only one thing I can tell you. So the cases that have been in court for a long time, after the criticism that has been expressed to all law enforcement authorities and courts, have improved the situation somewhat, as they say. Therefore, it is only increasing statistically by considering these matters. Last year, when I reported, I said there were so many cases, but the courts were very few. Today, you see that more than half of the cases are already going through, hence the growth of statistics. And in fact, I started by saying that this brutal, violent organized crime that was in its early years, it's changing its colors, changing its tactics.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u175	So, honourable Members, I'm ready to meet any factions at any time and answer any questions you may have. No questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u176	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u177	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Ivanovich, you once handed over your post to Andrew, I'm sorry, Derkach. And I'd like to ask you, when you're back in your place, did you have to make any changes, set someone free, move someone to clean up the stable again, as they say, in order to bring your service back in line with legislation, legislation? That's the first one. And the second. We have this kind of inherited practice: if someone wants to write, well, practice in the 1930s, they start to hear some rumors that, there, they met with the President, they wrote a statement, they didn't write, and so on, there are press statements and so on. Yeah, me, second question. Have you met with the President and had a conversation about your future?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u178	Thank you. Well, first question. I'm not a king, I'm sorry, and I don't hand over the service as a crown to anyone. For a period of time, I left the Service for another job. When I returned, of course, I published some of the policy papers that I saw, the role of the service, the place, the methods of work. These documents are and are managed by a special warehouse. That's the first one. Well, that's different. Oh, as far as the march is concerned. When the government is changing, but I understand that each executive as the new minister comes to the Ministry, all members of the college are asking for clarification or their views on the activity follow with the views of the minister. [[I'm not a member of the government.]] Since we have a rule-of-law government that is today, the President is setting up the tasks that are, I have really had a conversation with the President as he relates to the activity of the service for today. And he came out of there as he entered the head of the Security Service, all the questions solved. Why does this question blow up? And so, let's say, in some cases, with the ununderstandable accents, I think you and I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u179	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. The time is, unfortunately, over.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u180	Once again, if I have to meet the faction, the committee, I am ready to come and answer all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u181	From the Attorney General's Office, please Deputy Attorney General Sergey Markianovich. I had a conversation, my dear colleagues, after your last request. I had a conversation with the D.A., and he's running a college now. So he told me, he was called to the phone. Huh? So I said that after your last request, I left, contacted the Attorney General. He was summoned and held a college meeting. Please, Alexander Frost. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u182	Vladimir Mikhailovich, with all due respect to you and to Sergey Markianovich, who is now standing in the rostrum, we should not hide what you are being told by the Attorney General's Office. The meeting, referred to as the argument, will take place at three o’clock in the morning. So why do this now? Let's not humiliate Sergey Markianovich in any way, we won't listen to anything better. The Attorney General, who is appointed by the Supreme Council for this office, cannot but attend the meetings of the Supreme Council when there is a need to consider matters for which he is directly responsible. If we do so, we will nullify the authority of the legislative body in general. I'm making another offer, let Sergey Markianovich not get offended, not start this speech, and we'll wait another time, we'll listen to the Attorney General separately. After all, there must be order in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I would therefore like to make Alexander Alexander's proposal right now. We are now listening, not to the Attorney General's report, but to the issue of combating corruption and organized crime. One minute, let him report, the question is, we didn't get him. Deputy Attorney General. We will then, if necessary, make a separate decision to invite the Attorney General and listen to him. Now, let's not interrupt the consideration of this issue, and that's it. I suggest so, more so than expected. Please. Well, you'll also ask questions that will be of interest to the first deputy. Dear colleagues, we're not listening to the Attorney General's report, we're listening to the prosecutor's job. There's a small difference between two. I said your offer was right. If you don't vote, let's not listen. Dear colleagues, if you vote now, come on, no questions. I am putting to the vote the question: who is responsible for not listening now to the speech of the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine? Change the vote, please. Alexander Alexanderus Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u184	The proposal is, you don't even have to vote for it, because you've asked the Attorney General here in writing. And so you can only vote by transferring hearings or reports from the Attorney General to a different time, rather than clicking here, listening, not listening to Sergey Markianovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u185	Okay. Is the offer understood? The transfer of hearings from the Attorney General to another time. Who's in favour, please vote. For - 109 Yes, let's go now, dear fellows, let's move on to, if there's no first interlocutor, then we'll discuss the issue. Let's not waste time on all this. Please have a seat. So will we listen to the first deputy? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u186	Are we or aren't we? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u187	Thank you. Yeah, 30 minutes as we agreed, we're talking about this. Please highlight those who sign up for the talk. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin He'll be followed by Puzakov. Dear colleagues, after Puzakov I then, if you don't mind, Mikhailo Alexiyovich Pobeko, who has led the committee for the last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", not criminal Ukraine, "Solidarity", party of protectors of the country. The honourable national deputies, the question we have just heard, are extremely important and possible for the future of our Ukraine. It's important for the future, especially because it's about the flaws of society that exist today. Bureaucratic interference with the economy certainly has a corrupt nature. And it was said that millions of dollars were saved, either by intervention by the Security Service or by the IMF. I mean, honourable national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine. Every year up to 40 - 45 percent of Ukraine’s GDP, which is 80 - 90 billion dollars, is distributed through a corruption mechanism, and 9 - 10 billion dollars, or 20 percent of all citizens’ incomes, make up their own profits. As a result, I would now like to raise questions about crime and corruption at the highest levels of government. I see I don't have enough time for this, so I'm going to say part of the "Rifficulty" and now I'd like to draw your attention to what, in specific cases that have been called today, particularly the head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. I am absolutely convinced that corruption is simply covered up. In particular, it was the Kharkiv region, and today it was based on facts that were named after the killings of the Burjak brothers. They're convicted, and the Supreme Court has reinforced this decision, Buryak brothers. And Sergey Markian, deputy attorney general, he knows that I've been making a number of phone calls since my mother came to me. She says, "My children were planted to take property." I was convinced that it was to take the property away. People are sitting under guard, and at this time they seem to be giving away their property, the truth is now a criminal case. But there's no way I can get the Attorney General to investigate under exceptional circumstances. The last of the government's orders, for example, since 21 November 2002, number 679 on the removal of land in the Vodica Desert and the sale of land by ransom to the ZAT Football Club Dinamo Kyiv. And here is 22, 36 hectares right now, this is November 21st, the government is actually gone, and today it's gone, it's not interested today. But that's just how it goes and it's transmitted. Whoever's taking it away is using it in the Desert Water house and giving it to commercial society. What are we doing? I'm going to the government that can hear me now, I'm going to the President, cancel these orders, cancel as those that have corruption signs. I'm asking the Attorney General, half a second, please give me September 12th for the bribe, for the bribe of $10,000 in a car with respect to tax officials. What? At the direction of the Chief of the Attorney General’s Office, the case is referred to the Attorney General’s Office and then referred to the Prosecutor’s Office of Kiev for investigation. The car was first arrested, the car was confiscated, and then the Pelech investigator was released, and the car returned. Maybe the Attorney General needs a little different treatment of bribes of $10,000. And today we see and here we've reported that for five bracelets you're pulling and pinning on a person who's a corrupt. So what's behind these redundancies? Clearly, all questions cannot be covered in three minutes, I would like to make a very serious decision as a result so that the committee can take this seriously. I would like the Committee on Combating Organized Crime, the Corruption of the President of Ukraine, which is leading up to this day, Mikhail Vasilovich Potekko, very carefully, to respond more closely to all the processes that are taking place in the country, and to the facts that I am still making public in the "different" today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u189	The word is given by Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovovich. Please follow the time limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u190	Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Corruption in the state is causing global damage; it is now affecting the entire economy of the country. The problem is that it is closely connected with the authorities. This is why the authorities cannot get rid of it, so opposition parties claim that the whole system of power must be eliminated because it has become criminal. The union is made up of high officials and justice and law enforcement agencies. A host of facts testify to this. Thieves, fraud, self - interest, selfishness, intimidation, threats to those who try to tell the truth at least a little. Various means of pressure are being used against the Kirovograd region to destroy the very fact that it has achieved the characteristics of the red belt. It is sold for the priceless possessions of former strong farms. Tractors, combines, machines, and agricultural masterpieces continue to be used by those who have been able to reach power. They create flying brigades after harvesting wheat crops, sunflowers, and without permission of the management of farms, confiscate the diamond and the grain in the form of payment. In the area, it reaches limitlessness. Recently, it was sold from the hammer of an unbuilt theater for 750,000 dollars, but its value is 8 million dollars. The commission of the Kirovograd District was meeting earlier to discuss the possibility of sale, but they were not authorized to make decisions through meetings of a small number of their members, moved the meetings to the following day, but on that day the sale of the theatre was quick to take place with the administration of the area, and there were no culprits. Unless it is a crime to break the law. On May 13, 2002, at 12 a.m., three unknowns took over the GAZ-2410 service vehicle, which was on mission, belonging to the KIA. In doing so, the driver of the car, the engineer, and the head economist of SVK Suboci were physically damaged. Another example. In the SVC Suboca of the Poznań region of October 13, 2002, about 23 hours, three unknowns, using physical force to protect, also took over the KAMAZ car and lost their holdings of SVC Suboci and disappeared in an unknown direction. And there are no results of the investigation. And when preparations were made for meeting with the National Deputies Simonenko, Timoshenko, Moroz, they tried to put the Moonpark in the central square to occupy the entire area and prevent people from being allowed there. This was done by representatives of the district cultural administration at the orders of senior officials of the adjuvant and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The fact that corrupt authorities are being merged with the rule of law can be described as limitless. Who, then, needs such authority and a state that crushes, grinding its own people into dust? What can we expect? Where can you find protection from such authority? It must have brought itself together as a system leading to destruction for both the people and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u191	Thank you. The word is given by Mihail Alexiyovich, who headed the committee on the fight against organized crime and corruption. Please, Michael Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u192	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The question raised by the Supreme Council, as we understand it, deserves special attention. I can’t share the idea that sometimes I have to hear about the state’s overindulgence. But the fact that organized crime is widespread, its tentacles are visible even in their own structures, is indeed a fact. From this question from the committee head's report, there's an appropriate analysis, I don't think it needs to be repeated. In my work as Attorney General of Ukraine for about three years, I also served as the head of the coordinating committee to combat corruption organized by the President of Ukraine. And I'm not going to hide that in giving my consent to such an appointment, I was pursuing the goal of persuading the Supreme Council to pass these functions on to the prosecutor's offices that were before it, and I think they were wrongly taken away. And the Supreme Council, as you know, has agreed with this, and with the amendment or addition to the Public Prosecutor's Act, these rights have been introduced, and I think today, if you say so, the Prosecutor's Office fully covers the coordination activities of all law enforcement and state institutions to combat crime in general, including organized. Since I am currently in charge of the Presidential Coordination Committee, I feel that it is inappropriate to speak of his report. While I cannot help but overlook the fact that the Coordinating Committee has played a role in the interaction of all law enforcement agencies and other state institutions, above all in the prevention of crime. This is precisely the purpose of the site check and the results of the study of the state of the fight against corruption and organized crime were considered at extended committee meetings, if, on average, the President of Ukraine, as well as at the retreats of Odessa, Mikolai and other areas. Reports were heard in the implementation of laws by individual heads of state institutions, including the State Property Fund, the agribusiness complex, the fuelling energy complex, and so forth. Quite extensive information on the committee’s work last year was provided to the Supreme Council, which was transmitted. But, as I have said, for some reason, I find it appropriate to express my opinion on some problems in the fight against crime and to share my own thoughts on how to deal with them. Dear colleagues, you understand that the discovery of dirty funds is not a simple matter, and there is no small obstacle to the normative acts that regulate the receipt of certain information from the banking institutions and the individuals involved. No less. No, it's two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u193	Can I have one minute, please, if you don't mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u194	It's no less complicated than that. So, what, three more minutes to go?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u195	No, I'm saying if you'll just give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u196	Not only is it difficult to obtain information but it is also necessary to obtain materials from other countries. And that's what we've learned about the Lazarus case. But that's not the point. The point is how we can deal with these issues in principle and influence the activities of law enforcement agencies. Whether we want to or not, we must say that they are at the front of the fight against crime. Of course, we can criticize them, we can demand them, but let's think about whether we're doing everything we can to strengthen the material technology base and provide for the needs of the workers. And to shield them first from the pressure on the places to solve specific issues. For example, I don't understand today when it comes to such a fact as, what can be explained today by the prosecutor's office of delay in investigating the abuse case in the Kyiv area, where the case is closed, where the case is delayed, and the financing is based on falsified district council decisions. And let's be clear, the prosecutor who showed principle, the young man, the honest one, is now out of office. It's Mishchenko. I'd like the Attorney General's Office to deal with this case in person, the reason for the discharge of the prosecutor. If the prosecutor's office isn't under pressure, I think it doesn't give her authority, and, more than that, I think it's legal. Well, I don't know then, if so, then I'm more, then I'm done. Will you give me a minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u197	Can't we? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u198	I think there's another way to think about it. And it's hard to do today, to talk, and even more to do, practical action to fight organized crime, if we call it the number of thefts, and 80 percent of them are taking on weight. And the area is the heads of executive power, the representative authorities. And we understand the impact on them if the head of administration in some areas determines who to be the prosecutor. So what I'm asking is, first of all, it's up to us not just to listen here right now, but to take a closer look at these facts and provide practical help, help, first of all, in the laws that we need to think about. Today a law on the prosecution is being drawn up, where we must fence in the legislative order without any pressure, but we can only require those bodies to do what the state wants to do to strengthen the rule of law. Well, not at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u199	National Deputy Alexandrovska, faction of the Communists of Ukraine Prepare Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished by the Presidency, I would like to address two issues in my statement. The first is the problem of preventing trafficking in human beings in Ukraine. Since March 98, an article criminalizing trafficking in persons has been introduced into the Criminal Code. The bill was drafted by the People's Deputy and now by the Human Rights Commissioner, Karpachev Nina Ivanovna. This crime has been classified by law enforcement authorities as a serious offence. This category of cases has changed since September of last year. Since then, they have become the consequence of internal affairs. It would be desirable for a supervisory authority such as the Procurator's Office to improve the level and effectiveness of oversight of the legality of cases in this category, since it is not a secret that one of the conditions conducive to trafficking in persons is the activities of various firms, which are not subject to legal intermediation in the employment of Ukrainian citizens abroad. However, such criminal cases are very rarely initiated and allowed by the fibula, and illegal decisions are often made on termination. I believe that this is a very serious issue that should be addressed. For more than three years, the National Coordinating Board has been working with the Commissioner for Human Rights. Government programmes have been developed with its participation, which have been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and are in operation. The Human Rights Commissioner, the Coordinating Council more than a year ago, addressed the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine as actors in a legislative initiative seeking ratification of the UN Convention against Organized International Crime, and in particular Protocol No. 2 on Trafficking in Persons, signed by Ukraine. I believe that this decision should be accelerated and accelerated by the ratification of the Protocol by the Supreme Council. The next problem that I would like to address and draw the attention of the people's deputies is the issue of the work of the forces and, above all, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, as a system that often works, unfortunately, outside the framework of laws and sometimes even the Constitution. Many appeals by voters, unfortunately, have prompted me to raise this issue. The attitude towards these structures has changed dramatically today. It has clearly become negative in recent years, despite the understanding that there are good people among the employees of these bodies, there are some problems in providing them materially. Not least, statements by voters from the former members of the KGB and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and even their agents who had stopped their unspoken cooperation with the special forces for various reasons have also played a role in this issue. Among these reasons, the main concern, according to their evidence, is the fear of being deciphered because of the selling and handing over of retired workers to whom these agents were connected. For obvious reasons, I cannot, I cannot, I cannot, call the source of this information, but it is, however, the fact that power itself produces and supports crime. The criminal world has grown firmly with the law enforcement system. There is no doubt that it is the criminal world that is interested in the power vested in it and the establishment of a police-punishment facility that, at the command of the authorities, was willing to suppress any protest movement of the people against criminal lawlessness. The establishment of such a criminal system is without the knowledge and consent of the people and the people's deputies. I recall the negative involvement of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on 9 May in Kharkiv, the beating of veterans at the memorial, the beating of adolescents in Zitomir, the events of 17 September this year in Kiev and the continued persecution of protest participants throughout Ukraine. It is essential for the criminal world to ensure that corruption from a serial ranger to former acts of the Ministry of Internal Affairs becomes an integral part of their activities, allowing them to keep the so-called law enforcement authorities “under surveillance”. Today’s criminal world has succeeded greatly. In particular, we know that the role of the Agency, the core weapons of the organs in the detection of crimes, has fallen from the lowest to the lowest levels. If the agency had previously recruited in most of its patriotic origins, most of the time it was working with the authorities. The first and second categories are completely out of cooperation because they are afraid to be deciphered. Such a law enforcement system in the country cannot protect the interests of the people. We believe that it is necessary for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at a closed meeting of the relevant committee, to hear the report of the Minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, that in its report to the Supreme Council, the Minister should report to the people's electorate on the desirability of appointing all units and departments, without exception, of their quantitative composition and of the funds spent on their contents. The report should include tables, data on the main operational performance indicators of the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs over the past 12 years. I believe that, as a result of this review, it is necessary to conduct a formal investigation into the structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, including the necessary cleaning in the personnel. I believe that it must be determined how law enforcement workers, as people who receive very little income, have housing, do they have homes, do they have cottages, do they have stamps, do they have stamps? I believe that this must be the subject of consideration by the internal affairs bodies themselves. The question of 30 seconds should also be resolved as to whether it would be appropriate to retain officers in units such as GAI, other non-operational units. For many, it is surprising, for example, that staff members with officers are involved in accounting, secondary documents and reports of the GAI, while they are employed abroad. Military posts should be provided for and resolved. It should not appear to be a paradox when a district inspector serving the market and a senior criminal investigation authority is levelled in the military rank of major. The Ministry of Internal Affairs should be restored to the functions of the fight against the criminal world rather than to the function of political search and blackmail. Thank you for your attention. And, excuse me, I'm a little lineup for Stretovich's statement to the Human Rights Commissioner. I think it was completely illegal to criticize. And it is necessary not to fight the bodies that fight crime, but to work together to combat crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u201	National MP Kravchenko, Communist faction. Prepare Pisarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u202	Kravchenko, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers'Rights. I fully agree with the statement by the chairman of the Stretovic Committee of the People's Deputy in the examples he cited on the WHO. But there is another structure in the IMF system that affects the interests of 12.5 million people, which is parasitic and, in my opinion, is today the most corrupt structure within the Ministry of the Interior. I will not stop at what I can see today, making it possible for the PAI to build pompous positions with helicopters and garages, by which and by whom the GAI, the public office, the budgetary organization, to participate today in the distribution of the profits of the maintenance stations that conduct the inspections. I will not dwell on how the GAI today is looking for additional sources of money collection from the population through perceived changes to the traffic rules. I will only say that what is being done in the GAI today is of interest to the highest public authorities. No one else, like the Cabinet of Ministers, allowed them paid services. The Minister of Internal Affairs cannot but know that the GAI system now has a financial and material accounting system for each official, beginning with the district office, ending with regional and other units. Where specific amounts of money are assigned, who has to pay what. This is all because 12 million people are involved in road traffic in Ukraine. I'm the only one who wants to say that fighting corruption in the GAI system is not easy. That is why we have created the social movement that is involved. What are we going to do now? First, we have legislation and I must say that we ask you to assist in the drafting of a road traffic law. So that the Cabinet official does not decide how to behave on the roads, but the law. And the courts judged by this law. Second. In any event, I would ask the Minister to join the Smyrnov case in order to finally address the problem of depriving legal persons of their status as entities that work within the Ministry of Justice. Today, the GAI has legal personality, which allows it to conduct all these operations. The law that I passed in the past assembly was lost in the bosoms of the Bandurka committee, and thus it is not even brought to the hall for consideration. And the last. Respectable colleagues! As much as we do not talk about combating corruption until we amend the legislation to ensure that the Minister of Internal Affairs and the BSS is appointed and fully accountable to the Supreme Council, these people, however good they may be, will not be able to fully discharge their responsibilities. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u203	People's MP Pisarczuk, faction of SDP. Get ready, Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u204	The Honorable Presidium! Dear colleagues! In conflict with my beliefs, being first elected to the higher legislative body of the State, I have no right to make fun of this high rostrum, but I cannot help but keep quiet about my own experience in the fight against organized crime. Let me give you a little chronology. After my cosmopolitan party history, I had no other option in Lviv than to open my own business. Not looking for easy ways to stay away from budget and other protectionist and governance schemes, we have managed to implement a number of projects that I think have done nothing to harm the interests of the state and people. It is enough to say that in just the last five years, several thousand jobs have been created. However, it was enough to put a blind in front of criminal elements who tried to impose their rules on our business, as shots were fired at me under the cover of 2000. And thanks only to the Most High and the Doctors, I am standing here today. There's an investigation going on for two years. For the past year, the Lviv district attorney’s office, and in fact, the case was prepared quietly for filing in the archives. It was enough for me to come to the reception at the Attorney General's Office in October of this year. It was Monday. On Friday, my daughter's car was on fire, and on Saturday, my former deputy was shot in the head of the South Semenyuk Trade Center. Two weeks ago, law enforcement authorities threatened to blow up our mall. Isn't that terrorism? So when Tuesday when it came to dealing with the issue of terrorism, it was said that it was not relevant, it seemed to me that was extremely relevant. There have been repeated accusations in this room that she's allegedly in pursuit of a former business of MPs who don't belong to the majority. I am able to do more here than the wicked one than the truth. In fact, business, and money theft in our country, really, isn't protected. And just by adopting the relevant legislative acts in this room that will be aimed at bringing our economy out of the shadows into a civilized field, we will strike at organized crime. Because it's the shadow economy that's the black earth on which it's clearly growing. No doubt this does not change the guilt of law enforcement authorities for today’s state of affairs in the state. First of all, communication with many law - enforcement officials is that serious crimes against a person have become an everyday phenomenon with which they are at peace. You hear the same thing everywhere: the lack of budget allocations does not allow the task to be fully accomplished. The problem is indeed, but it will take more than a year to solve it. So let's look at it from the other side. Why, within the limits of what we have, do not radically reform the law enforcement system, fight against the criminal world, not by the number of law enforcement officers, but by skill. The task of ensuring public order is to place it on the local police. The IMF departments to combat economic crime under such a powerful tax administration are manifest anachronism. The effort to protect AIDS is justified only when a powerful criminal police unit is created with no less qualified investigative equipment. Workers should have adequate social guarantees to provide for the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u205	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u206	I'm sorry. It's my first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u207	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u208	To provide them with a decent standard of living, protected from political and criminal influences, adequate material security. These units should be reinforced by elite units like Berkut and Sokol. Agree on what. It's the attorney general's office. I am grateful to Svetalav Mikhailovich Piscoun, who, after addressing our faction, promised to take a closer look at our region. I have every reason to say from this high rostrum that in recent years the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region has shown a remarkable loyalty to the criminals involved in the resonance cases. She did not become a consolidating governing body in overcoming organized crime. That's why, without exaggeration, it can be said that the ball of the area is a crime. It can also be said without exaggeration that terrorism is a threat. organized crime threatens the national interests of our nation. Human life is priceless and we must learn to provide security and peace, to create our people for their free and comprehensive development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u209	People's deputy Bull, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u210	Boiko Georgi Volodymyrovich, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, wasting his own time, has to remind us that the words of our committee head, who stressed that for the first time in the lifetime of the Law on Organised Crime, the Supreme Council listens to this question, although the norm is not less than once a year. Regrettably, the absolute requirement of the law had not been fulfilled until now. And an analysis of the measures envisaged by the State Crime Control Programme, statistics in Ukraine indicate further criminalization of both the state and non-state sectors of the economy. The scale and impact of criminogenic processes in Ukraine require appropriate state institutions to continuously and in-depth analyse their causes with a view to neutralizing them, as well as taking into account the development and implementation of measures to strengthen the rule of law and the rule of law in the country. One of these negative causes is corruption and its dangerous consequences, particularly the lack of political will at the highest level in the state to combat these phenomena, undermine citizens' confidence in power, have a negative impact on economic reform, promote its toning and, as a result, its effects. A decline in Ukraine's international authority and a decline in foreign investment in Ukraine's economy. The Ukrainian Anti - Corruption Act, adopted on October 5, 1995, was an important step in the fight against corruption. However, as practice shows, the law does not meet the requirements of today. One of the main factors contributing to the spread of corruption in the executive branch is the ineffective response of managers of different levels to the illegal actions of their subordinates and the failure of managers to identify and stop corruption as provided by law. A study of these problems in Ukraine today concludes that it is no longer possible to take preventive action in Ukraine and that it is not possible to engage in purely formal activities. All actions in the indicated directions have been exhausted. A set of concrete practical measures is needed to make appropriate changes to the legislation of Ukraine and the structure of state bodies that oppose organized crime and corruption. For example, to reorganize the Coordinating Committee on Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine, to deal with UBZ, to provide appropriate assistance to the IMF, the BSS, and so forth, to conduct a proper rotation. On this point, I must announce a draft decision of the Supreme Council, which brought our committee. First. Recognizing that the existence of organized crime and corruption in Ukraine’s country, law enforcement, judicial and other State bodies has not yet ensured the inescapable fulfilment of the requirements of article 3 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which recognizes the State’s primary duty to uphold and secure human rights and freedoms and should therefore be considered unsatisfactory. The other one. To invite the President of Ukraine, both on his own and in conjunction with the newly created Cabinet of Ministers, in short, to take action for a thorough staffing upgrade and organizational guarantee of the effective functioning of the state's law enforcement system, critically and in principle assessing the previous work in this area as insufficient, low-skilled and formalistic. At the same time, eliminate the Coordinating Committee against Organized Crime from the President of Ukraine as a body that failed to perform its functions. Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u211	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u212	To propose, I conclude, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Security Service, together with the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, and the involvement of leading experts from other interested bodies to establish a permanent centre of legislative proposals. And to oversee the implementation of the decree to submit to the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, commissioning it to prepare a further annual report in an order set out in part two of article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on the Organised Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime in November 2003. I took my time because I'm also surprised I didn't see a draft Supreme Council ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, time is up. So let's maybe work it out. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Well, please, what are you yelling at? Let's work it out this way. I've now calculated that the most represented faction of Communists. So let's take it from the Communist faction, and then I'll make a proposal to the end that'll get us all settled. Or, dear colleagues, at 2 p.m., the broadcast is off. This is going to be a conversation for our little group here, for the group. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich. And then we'll continue to make a deal. Well, time is running out, but most of the people present insist. Taras, come on, I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, the issue that we are considering, is, above all, of great public importance, because it is a matter of national, economic and political importance, and of other aspects of our security with you. We are reaffirming today that society, the people of Ukraine do not trust the law enforcement authorities, by giving many examples both in the rostrum reports and in the presentations. The people today are terrified and afraid of everything that is happening in Ukraine. This state of society follows from the village to the capital of Ukraine. I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior from this rostrum. Who made it good for the internal forces to be a part of the country's crime scene, the Dnepropetrov region, when they took the land from the peasants. That is the answer to a question that we all ask by calling upon the law enforcement authorities to defend the interests of our people. But the most terrible thing here, dear colleagues, is that we have not received a response from those who analyze the state of society from within to monitor the processes. What is the real reason? Why did the metastases today address, above all, corruption and bribery, and much more, the law enforcement system? But please note that I am addressing the President of the new Supreme Court of Ukraine today. What, Mr. Mallarenko does not know that in the people there is a clear assessment - the courts of Ukraine, the most corrupt system of law enforcement today? Without bribes, a simple man can't solve a single question. What measures does Mr. Mallarenko take to make the laws perfect so that today's recruitment system is sufficiently effective and honest decent people come there? Why won't the law enforcement authorities answer today? Are you really giving you an opportunity or are you allowed to arrest, the figures here are only those that interfere with the biggest sharks, the so-called business, the most corrupt structures in society to rob people? Because you get these numbers to show society that you're doing the budget. And the paradox, respected colleagues, is that a poor person is shaping the State's budget, and the law enforcement budgets form a shadow economy through those funds that they are actually under pressure from certain criminal cases. If we have not received a response from the Security Service today, why is national security and the threat to national security not from the outside but from the inside? Why are the Security Service representatives currently in the process of initiating criminal cases when I learned one of them, I have informed Vladimir Ivanovich, I hope that the measures have been taken. Against the elected President or the head of Mr. Petyhatka, the Communists brought a criminal case against corruption in advance of a decision taken by the previous level council, so to speak, on a level such as salary. They've brought a man to trial, they're treating him. Why? Because the team left the area. One last moment. The most dangerous thing for us, dear colleagues, is that we will never defeat this crime because it is part of the political system in the State. She's echelonated. Look. The entire Kyiv region will rise from Governor Zasuhi. But he's a loved one and a decent man in the President's family. Where I wasn't in Kiev, everyone was groaning from him. Why has action not yet been taken? What do our leaders here not know, what does Drought represent or other heads of administration? They know. I'm done. One last example. I would like to know who was responsible in the Office of the President when one of the most important criminal authorities in the city of Kiev is awarded the highest prize of the State. Comrades! The question is much more serious and complex. These are the consequences of the 11 years of enormous destruction of Ukraine, allowing the people of Ukraine to be robbed and will continue to do so. It is necessary to take radical measures to maintain order in the country, and only then will the people believe when they remember a song that we have always sang, that a beloved city can sleep peacefully. Our country, as a favorite country, is Ukraine, "never will sleep in peace until this criminal system gives birth to the likes of them and give them the opportunity to rob." That's why I'm calling. All decisions, as well as the laws that we make, must be made and removed from a particular situation, protecting the interests of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u215	Dear colleagues!" We still have six national deputies on the floor. If it is your will, we can continue to consider the matter. But this will be a conversation for the session room. I have this offer. I'll teach her, and you'll still be there. We're going to have to make a different decision, because there's a lot of people down there, over 20. What we're going to think is that we're coming up, we're getting close to that question. And it's a good thing that for the first time, we're doing our job, and the committee that asked this question is doing its assignment. Since this is the first time, I think that the committee and the members of the committee without emotion should take seriously the observation that this issue is not sufficiently prepared for consideration, because we need to prepare all the comprehensive information that national MPs would receive, but not just a set of information that they have provided that this information should not be intelligence and institutions of power structures. And this information should be generalized, as the Committee sees it, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine sees it, not a committee consultant, in all respect for this position. And we need a thorough, comprehensive and serious discussion on this subject, not a rally, not a call to each other, but a professionally qualified conversation with decisions that would logically emerge from the conversation that will take place. This should be a state approach, not an accounting. First of all, it should be based on the fact that the Supreme Council, as no one else, should be on the watch for the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, as well as the national interests of our country. And I think we need to have a serious consideration of this problem, not that we have taken place on this issue in order to note that we have had such a conversation. So I have a proposal -- I want the committee to continue to prepare this question, and when the committee is ready, but not tomorrow, as they say, the committee, and when it's ready, seriously, to ask this question, to rediscover the same committee, taking into account the proposals of factions and groups, how much time do we need to not break the files here and talk about it at the hands of everyone who has a bearing on it. Is there no objection? That's how we define it. When the question is done, then we're going to be dealing with factions and groups -- we're going to need two hours or south to deal with it. Now, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, is there an agreement? Aren't we going to continue with the performances then? Because the broadcast ended at 2:00. Well, if there's a need, please let's keep going, I'm in. None. Yes, please. Please, National Deputy Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u216	Sergey Ivanovich, that's enough for me. It is a great privilege for me to tell you, not necessarily for all of Ukraine. I fully share your concern and offer as to what needs to be discussed. We didn't finish it, we don't have a document in our hands to vote for. Therefore, the clarification is one thing. Have, finish this discussion, this question, next sessional week, that is, next week. Let the committee choose a day, for example. What should we carry on for long? We have to continue next week for the next sessional week, for example, on Wednesday. On Wednesday, I propose to conclude the discussion, to vote in favour of the draft decision on Thursday, to oblige the PSC to prepare the draft regulation and to conclude the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u217	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u218	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to make a note of the procedure. There was a bit of an unpleasant thing going on today. The thing is, Mikhailo Alexiyovich Potebenko was written as a reporter and his quota at some point went -- 5 and a half minutes -- on the quota by the performances, that's actually taken away two deputies from being able to speak from those who were recorded. Because Mikhailo Alexiyovich was recorded on the 9th, that is, much further. So this is the violation, and I was just coming up with that request to settle it, because it's probably too late now. And I would still ask you to follow the order that is in the record through the secretariat, not the way it was. And you often, when you need to, know how to cut people when the rules are broken. Today, two people have been given the opportunity to speak for another six minutes. It seems to me that this is a little bit of a reflection of this nuance, which is further away, and that those speakers whose performances might be unwelcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u219	I take your point, but I've come out of the fact that we're already here in this sort of family circle and I just didn't want to use the power and swear, the more that people were talking emotionally and talking about what hurt. But you're absolutely right, and I'm going to take that into account in further work. Well, respectable colleagues, we're talking about a common cause, not someone who's filming someone. Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u220	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, we., you just said that when the broadcast in Ukraine was over, the question, in principle, could not be discussed. We're not just talking to voters, we're talking about making a judgmental decision. In principle, the speeches were a committee, we saw at what level the question is prepared, the speeches of the deputies. And, in principle, it would have to be completed, Vladimir Mikhailovich, listen, please finish the question today, you have to finish the question today. We do not need to work for the public, talk seriously in the presence of the leaders of the appropriate authorities, and commission the committee to prepare a decision according to the speeches. Yes, in principle, you can. When there's a broadcast, there's politics, not serious talk on the issue. This is my vision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u221	Thank you. Taras Blackwall, I'd like to invite you to your turn. Prepare Karnauhu. So me, I wanted to. Yes, dear colleagues, so let's define. Well, then. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Did he agree to accept the offer he had made? Please, Karnauh, offer. Well, we'll move on to the next one, well, wait a minute. Well, Karnauh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u222	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The question has begun to be considered, and unfortunately, it has not been completed. And it's because, with the information about the control of the units operating the search and search activities of the Attorney General, it's not finished. So I propose that we move the matter to the next plenary week, listen to the Attorney General, discuss the draft decision and make a decision, and accuse the committee of failing to prepare for the fact that he didn't give general figures, I don't think that's entirely correct. We're doing the job. Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you acted responsibly, there would be a Sandman. So the issue of corruption today, unfortunately, is neither Janukovic nor the Attorney-General nor the other organs nor the President are dealing with this problem, so I propose that we move this issue to the next plenary week and finish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-29-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to identify ourselves now. We're done, we're done. We need to figure out two more questions. First of all, we had information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the implementation of our decree on measures to ensure the warmth of housing. I believe there is today a committee head who has waited patiently here, but I have looked again at the documents which. There's no committee conclusion. Let the committee take a look, not just the government. Then we will hear the question, taking into account its relevance. But there's one more thing. Dear colleagues, we have the Vizne left. What are we going to do about "The Different"? Dear colleagues, or we will be filming, or we will be listening to everyone. Please, we're done. Dear colleagues, this morning. Dear colleagues, let me put it this way: I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The plenary meeting will begin at 10 a.m. on December 10th. The following week, national deputies work in committees, factions, and groups. And all of us who signed up for the "Razna" show today will be transferred to the next Friday, and we will be sure to do so.
