ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, procedural matters. The morning plenary session is closed, register for the evening plenary meeting, please turn on the registration. [[16:06:25]] 122 national deputies registered in the hall, and the evening plenary session declared open. Dear colleagues, I'm reporting the situation. As I can see, the political temperature closer to the end of the session, the lower the political temperature. But I just got off the phone with the head of the budget committee. The Budget Committee has already agreed with three factions on all proposals. At 4:30 p.m., the last meeting of the Budget Committee is held. From 16.30 to 20. The 00th Budget Committee will be ready to make a decision, and it is likely that this decision will be positive. If at 20 o'clock tonight is the right thing to do, and even if it's two o'clock at night, I'm going to multiply all the materials and pass it on to the people's deputies. In that case, if this is done, tomorrow we will begin 10 hours necessarily from the faction leaders’ meeting to agree on the order of the day’s consideration of the issues and then make the final decision. The decision on the agenda is how to vote on the budget, how to temporarily preserve the political crisis, and how to close the session of the Supreme Council. Once again, with regard to the turn of affairs, a party of regions does not remove the day-to-day issue of the Ukrainian government's mistrust resolution. So I'm going to do everything I can to get all the materials for tomorrow's Parliament meeting. We will expect, though expectations may be futile, but we will expect that tomorrow will be a successful vote. I will also ask Parliament, under any circumstances, to come back to the consideration of unsupported bills -- those that we have passed in full procedure, but have not voted, starting with four social bills and one bill on road safety. Dear colleagues, in view of this, I ask you to disperse on the committees and wait for information on the passage of the National Budget Act. I declare the plenary session closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I ask the factions to my office. Thank you.
