ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-11-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. People's deputies please register. 373 national deputies registered in the hall. Please give me information on the factions. Thank you. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Larissa Eugenyevna. Let's welcome her with this day, we wish for all kinds of good things. Dear National Deputies! Today it is proposed to consider the question of organizational character - the formation of an oath by a member of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine Lavrinović Alexander Volodymyrovich, appointed by the President of Ukraine by the Minister of Justice on 7 May, and in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, he serves as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. And according to the Law of the Supreme Council of Justice, members of the High Council of Justice make an oath before taking office at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Higher Council of Justice requested that the Minister of Justice be sworn in to ensure the full functioning of the High Council of Justice. To make an oath to the rostrum, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-11-m0.u2	Minister of Justice of Ukraine. I swear conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest judges and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-11-m0.u3	Let's welcome the Minister of Justice with an oath and wish him success in responsible work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-11-m0.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-11-m0.u5	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear National Deputies! In line with the agenda, two organizational issues remained unresolved: the election of the National Deputies as members of the Fourth Council Committees and the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth term. Today we continue to consider the election of Ukrainian national deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Dear National Deputies! Let me inform you that factions along with the committees have carried out the necessary work. Some 80 percent of the draft decision is agreed, but in order to familiarize yourself with the draft faction document, the faction leaders are offered a recess of up to 17 hours 30 minutes to allow you to consider and vote on the document. In 20 minutes, the faction leaders will meet you in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-11-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Document prepared, agreed with faction leaders. He's at work now. You realize that this is an extensive draft of the decree. We have to wait 40 minutes until they give it to you. Dear colleagues! I ask you to be patient and wait. We put up with more. It's the faction leaders' offer. And we're going to continue our consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-11-m0.u7	Dear National Deputies! Please take your jobs. We are continuing our consideration of the question of the election of Ukrainian National Deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. A draft decision on this subject is given to you. In harmony with article 4.4. 5 Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council shall be elected by list of all committees without discussion by roll call. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Please turn on the "Race" system. Dear National Deputies! Please determine how to vote. "For" - 348. Please show by factions. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! According to our approved daily routine, we work in committees and factions from tomorrow. I ask all the national deputies who have joined the committees to meet tomorrow at 10 a.m. in the appropriate committees for the organizational meeting. And I'm asking the faction leaders to meet me in the opposite room to resolve the rest of the organizational issues. In this case, allow the meetings to be closed.
