ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please take up jobs. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Please, take your jobs, register, start working, then we'll discuss all the issues. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There were 404 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! We are continuing our consideration of the issue of the draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of State policy on the implementation of Ukraine's laws on the natural and cultural heritage fund and on the protection of cultural heritage and on the enforcement by officials of the requirements of the current legislation regarding the National Hortician Reserve and other historical and cultural reserves and natural-authority funds. We agreed that during the break there would be a complete project, taking into account suggestions and observations. Please state your motives. National Deputy Toločko Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u2	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I don't know what the decision will be, and in my own time, I wanted to point out that in paragraph 4, there are recommendations from the Attorney General's Office to address not only the historical and cultural, but also the landscape and nature reserves, especially the Tritemir Reserve, where in the hands of certain individuals there are about 15,000 hectares. That's the first one. The other one. Kosovo recommended resuscitation. It works, Reverend Michael Vasilovich. If you don't work there, it's your problem. If we don't work with you in the Supreme Council for the next call, that doesn't mean the Supreme Council won't. The company's working. The Ukrainian Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage states: To promote executive powers, local self - government, and so forth. If there is such a need, I can agree to repeat this paragraph of the Cultural Heritage Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u3	Thank you. National Deputy Suhi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u4	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[electoral district 79, Zaporezki region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that Bill 2168 considers our amendments and the work of the Cabinet of Ministers to be insufficient, we take our 2168-1 project into account. I call on the House to vote in favour of draft Decree 2168 as a decision of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u5	Thank you. The National Deputy of Kosovo, Our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u6	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear colleagues! I have unfortunately not had the opportunity to base my proposals on this issue, but they are totally coming out of the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act, which I had the honour to report in this Hall in March 2000 and for which 310 national MPs voted. So I would like to see these points, which were sounded by both the Suhi MP and the Tanjuk deputy, voted because as far as the historical cultural reserve in Lviv was concerned, it was created in 1975. I think Deputy Vladimir Pehota remembers very well; he was then a Levite and mayor of Lviv, and Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich remembers very well. And I think the factions that they belong to support this position, it's absolutely justified. Similarly, the law of Ukraine creates the creation of a public memorial service that is to work literally from January of the following year. And as for society, Peter Petrovich, you read, I'm not saying it's gone, I'm saying it should be coordinated as it was. It's a social society, but it's supposed to be coordinated by the Ministry of Culture, and we're saying that the Ministry should help this society, and it says here: activate the work. For if we are talking about the creation of civil society, it is in the existence of such unifications that there is a fundamental feature of civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u7	Thank you. It's already your show. National MP Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u8	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine." Dear friends! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in paragraph four of the operative part, Sophia Kyivska appeared again. I know that it has all the information in the National Deputies, all the checks are complete, the Attorney General's Office has already given its opinion. So I have a proposal to remove Sofia Kyivsky from paragraph 4. With regard to the proposal for the Stone Mogila, with which Boris Ilych Oljinik made his lunch, she is not. Therefore, the request to add the Stone Mogil to the list of reserved places for which the Cabinet of Ministers needs to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The proposals were made, they're understandable. We've already voted as the basis. Peter Petrovich’s proposals are taken into account during the process. I'm voting on a draft ruling that's been handed down in exchange for the earlier ruling, generally except for proposals made by the national MP Soboljev. Please vote. "For" - 341. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council proposes to vote on draft regulation 2180. Please listen carefully, I'll read it. "The decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Shufrech as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters." Please vote. "To" - 208. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to focus. On your request, I once again put to the vote a draft decree on the election of the Shufric People's Deputies as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, 2180. Please make up your mind, please vote. "To" - 200. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! The draft Cooperation Act is being submitted to your consideration. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? I am betting on the draft Supreme Council Resolution 1141/P on the adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Cooperation Act. Please vote. "For" - 299. Decision taken. You are being reviewed by a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Cooperation Act. The profile committee is offering to take it as a basis. It's the people's deputy Rudzkowski. Behind him is the national deputy Yultak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u10	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[multi-mandatory general constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! During the discussion on this issue, there were several speakers on Wednesday who argued that this bill could not be adopted, because its adoption would deprive 1 million 200 members of consumer cooperatives of the right to actually defend their interests and lead to several men -- the management of Ukrainian consumer co-operation -- controlling the entire property of Ukrainian consumer co-operation. You can't accept this bill. Several national deputies were invited to create a temporary special or investigative commission to consider the situation in the Ukrainian consumer cooperative and to propose a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u11	Thank you. People's deputy Yöttek. He's followed by a national MP named Cranwall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u12	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 95, Kyiv region]] Dear colleagues! We really need the Consumer Cooperation Act. That bill, introduced on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers itself by Ukosci, is a draft law, not about consumer cooperation, but about Ukoopspielek, which is about freezing the system that exists today, about granting extraordinary powers to the consumer co-operation that is engaged in looting the formerly created. This is done by the structure led by Babenko. There's also an alternative resource, such as the rebirth plant, which is engaged in growing production and increasing circulation. But for some reason, not the Cabinet of Ministers reported a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers, but a representative of the economic structure, which is a nonsensus in general. I have a draft of the Consumer Cooperation Act. For some reason, however, this bill was not introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council, thus violating my right as a subject of the legislative initiative. So I urge my colleague to vote against the law that perpetuates Ukooppilek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u13	Thank you. People's Deputy Cranwall. Following him is national deputy Gurenco Stanislav Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u14	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[constituency 116, Lviv region]] Under the Constitution, we do not have the right to adopt legislative acts that worsen the legislative framework for the rights of our citizens, Ukrainians. These positions virtually deprive the property rights of the vast majority of the population of U.S. consumer cooperatives. As a result, I feel that this law did not even have the right to enter the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u15	People's MP Gurenco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u16	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Head of the Economic Policy Committee. I would like to say in connection with the speech of my colleague Rudzkowski. No one forbids the creation of a commission of inquiry. We need to put in a project, it's not there yet, and we can look at it. To be honest, I do not really associate the creation of a commission of inquiry with the adoption of a law. That's the first one. The other one. Deputy Yultak has indeed submitted an alternative project. We have considered this project twice before on the committee, and I personally invited Deputy Joveka to meet with the committee. He did not find time to appear at the meeting. We are in such order that, in the absence of the drafter, the bill is not being considered. This bill has been worked out by a committee working group. He is proposed for consideration in the first reading. You can continue to make any amendments, including those that will be taken, if there is one, a discriminatory attempt in this bill. I would like to support the committee's proposal to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u17	National MP Zvaric. Following him is the national deputy of Gladys. And we'll vote. We're already having a discussion. Dear colleagues! Well, on the second question he'll be speaking. We're having a discussion. I'm asking you to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u18	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[electoral district 90, Ivano-Frankiv region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm not questioning the very need for such a bill, such a law at all. But I would very much like us to apply some more precise legal procedure in the adoption of our laws. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that the Consumer Cooperation Bill has direct references to the so-called Cooperation Act, which currently exists as a project. Therefore, even in the first reading, a bill that directly refers to an existing law cannot be adopted. First, we need to adopt a basic law, and then we can consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u19	Thank you. The national deputy of Gladys. And we'll determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u20	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[election district 179, Kharkiv region]] Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I believe that for nine years no one has paid attention to the demand operation, and now that the village has begun to revive trade cooperation, it is necessary to support the bill on first reading and then, of course, to amend it. I now have two of the most backward areas in the district: Barvinkowski and Blinukovsky. In each village of the Barwinkovsky region, cooperative shops began to operate. I therefore believe that the bill must be supported on first reading, and I ask my colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u21	A replica of the Gurenko People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u22	I wanted to speak on behalf of a distinguished colleague of mine. Dear colleague! The law is only accepted in Soviet times. And the bill, which is now being proposed to your mind, is exactly in line with the law, so talking about references to an existing law is not very correct. That's the first one. The other one. That's exactly the order we proposed on the committee, and we suggested it when we discussed the laws. As for the second bill, the amendments will only be made when the framework law - the Cooperation Act - is passed in the proposed edition. So it's okay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u23	The national deputy Yavorowski. Following him is the national MP of Baranowski. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u24	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! Let's put out some last accent, because now we're going to have to vote. First of all, the Cooperation Act already exists. I was speaking, and you know that, it was adopted in the early 1990s. So it works. The argument was that rural shops had begun to operate. Let those stores work for their health, and let them work hard, for God’s sake. The bill that is being proposed to us today is dangerous if you vote for it, you vote against your constituents. And I'll explain why. Because this bill legitimizes once and for all that this property will practically be managed by the top of the Ukooppilka, not by the people involved. So it's a matter of principle. And I very much ask you to vote against him in the same way. I thank you and I am sure that you will, for you are all wise men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u25	National MP Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u26	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the fact that literally five or seven years ago there were 13 million people in Ukooppilka. Today it's 1 million 300,000. I'm operating on maybe not exactly accurate numbers. If we adopt this law, in a year, there will be 50 people and all property will be left in them. We're just gonna legitimize all of this. Now, in fact, it's happening, if you'll excuse me, the shooting of Ukooppilka members, the total reduction, and this bill even develops a mechanism to get rid of them. This bill cannot be adopted even in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Consumer Cooperation Act. Please vote. "For" - 117. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! You are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the creation and functioning of special economic zones and the introduction of special investment regimes in areas of priority development. With motive? People's Deputies are on the road. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u28	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[electoral district 213, Kiev]] Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Yesterday at a meeting of the Coordinating Council of the Nine factions, all factions agreed to appeal to the Supreme Council to postpone voting under the bill. Since the bill was drafted by the President of Ukraine, as a representative of the President, I applied 18 hours to the President because there was a situation of disagreement. The President has authorized me to request the Supreme Council to postpone the voting on this bill to the agreement and to make proposals that will allow it to proceed in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u29	People's deputy Polishchuk. After him are the national deputies Simeonyuk and Matthew. People's deputy Polishchuk, faction of our Ukraine. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u30	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[election district 214, Kiev]] Dear National Deputies! A draft decree by the Supreme Council on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry on the death of Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Ivanovich, 2185, came into the bill registration sector. I'd like to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u31	Dear colleague! We are not considering this. Let's finish, and then I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u32	No, the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry is not necessarily an issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u33	No, we'll finish one question, and then we'll give you the word. Do you mind? People's deputy Semenyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u34	Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party. Dear fellow national MPs and distinguished Volodymyr Mikhailovich! As an MP in 1994, I remember very well the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers concerning the foreign investment regime, which exempt all foreign firms that imported the goods and still did not pay the taxes. That decree was annulled in 1995. Today another hole has been created in the legal field of free economic zones. According to the information Minstat gives us today, we have a real budget loss of 6 billion dollars. Today, we have not voted for the adoption of a law on the return of citizens’ savings. I understand that bankers are interested in earning income for themselves, not in returning savings to the citizens. Today, without adopting this law, we are once again losing 6 billion dollars to the budget. What are we going to return our pensions, our wages, what are we going to pay our teachers with? So I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to take this matter off the table, to put to the vote what the Committee of Economic Policy has put to the vote today. All free economic zones, the benefits must be cancelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u35	Thank you. People's MP Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u36	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. First of all, I turn to the esteemed colleague of the Road. In accordance with the Supreme Council’s Rules, a draft law was examined by the Committee on Economic Policy and brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. More than that. It is included in the agenda of today’s plenary session. And I would like to point out, my dear colleagues, if we take the path that one day, even the nine leaders of the nine factions, are going to propose to lift a bill that, by the way, was introduced by the President, we will go too far. There is a Rules, and it needs to be implemented, to consider the prescribed draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The proposals are well known here. If there are any new proposals, let's talk about it. National Deputy Carmazin. Behind him are the national deputies of Cranwall, Pinzenic. And we'll vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u38	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory constituency constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. "Our Ukraine," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! It's absolutely right and there's a proposal from the president of the regulatory committee of Matthew that we need to look at. We've been looking at it, and please remember, he was briefed by Slapak's Minister of Economics. I made a suggestion at the time: how will he and the committee look to adopt this bill in the first and second readings? And you remember that they responded favorably. The fact is that it is impossible to prepare today for the output of all these powers is to stop the theft of Ukraine in the form of imports, which is actually being dumped into Ukraine without customs and excise duties. Therefore, both in the first and the second readings must be accepted. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The proposals are repeated. Please, let's vote. National MP Taras Cnerwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u40	I won't make any suggestions. As far as the essence of the law is concerned. It's a procedural moment. The president passed the bill, he passed the relevant offices of the Supreme Council, and we don't have the President's recall document. The words said by Alexander the Road, we honor them, but, excuse me, this is not a document from the President. The author of the legislative initiative did not express his position with regard to the repeal of the bill. Therefore, all other consideration of the matter cannot stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u41	Thank you. People's MP Pinzenik, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u42	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear colleagues! I ask you to support this bill. This is a small but correct step toward eliminating discrimination against national producers. It was accepted only in the first reading. We're working on the second reading so that the problems that Valentina Semenyuk was talking about are settled. My request is to vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u43	National Deputy Klavov Andri Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u44	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[constituency 46, Donetsk Region]] Dear colleagues! There have been special economic zones and priority development areas for three years. These laws are in fact in force in most of Ukraine's depressive cities. They aim to create new jobs. Over three years, efforts have been made to remove the prerogatives of priority development in these territories and in special economic zones. Investors believed us, started investing money, and started creating new jobs in depressed areas. And who will consider us serious if we give, then immediately take us away? There is therefore a proposal by the Roadway to remove this issue. I'd like a room to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u45	Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote accordingly. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the creation and functioning of special economic zones and the introduction of special investment regimes in priority development areas is adopted as a basis. Please make up your mind. "For" - 205. The factions. Dear colleagues! Then, can you send for the rereading of the first reading? [[B in m in s a l in]] . The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! A colleague of Polishchuk made an offer. I'm going to read it. I don't think I'm going to be offended by my colleague Polishchuk. To now vote in favour of the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission on the death of Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Ivanovich, 2185. This project is given to you. Dear colleagues! I would like to vote in favour of including this issue now in the debate. Please be supportive. "For" - 345. Dear colleagues! I don't think there's any comment about this project. I'm putting him to the vote as a whole. Please vote. "For" - 357. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. [[concerning aircrew personnel]] The Profile Committee is proposing to adopt this project as a basis. Is there no objection? I bet on the vote the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Congregations for Compulsory State Pension Insurance, 1194/P. Please be supportive. "For" - 306. Decision taken. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the Special Fund for the State Budget of Ukraine]] The committee suggests that we accept it as a whole. For reasons of vote, the MP Mironenko, a faction of Communists, insists. Following him is the national deputy of Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u46	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[constituency 5, Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Dear colleagues! On behalf of the members of the various factions, I ask to vote against Bill 1318 because it has significant shortcomings, in particular with regard to port charges that will be collected from ports under this Act. Ports are State property because they are important for the State, for the economy of Ukraine. Port charges are now being sent for maintenance and repair of docks, buoys, towers, lighthouses and so on. If the law is adopted, the emergency will increase, the operation of ports will deteriorate, the public budget and local budgets will be reduced, the public interest, the economy of Ukraine will be damaged. In view of all of this, please vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u47	Thank you. National deputy of Matvienkov. Behind him are the Deputies of the Desert, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u48	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Mariupol. Dear friends! Ukraine is indeed a State with a port economy that needs to be kept in order to complete the budget. If we vote in favour of this bill, we will indeed bury all our ports. We've done something stupid with the environment once before. It's enough that we collect all the funds centrally into the same source, and then we walk hand in hand to take, to solve some problems on the ground. It's not taxes. These are fees for basic services provided by ports. It's their hard-earned money that they're channeling for development, for reconstruction, for their farm. I will therefore ask for this bill not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u49	Thank you. The People's Deputies of the Desert Tenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u50	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm going to take a broader approach to the draft law that's being passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u51	Valery Pavlovich, within a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u52	Peter Porcelain, I just want to say that there are a few problems here. We discussed this issue at the committee meeting, and everyone unanimously asked not to support the amendment to article 22 of the Business Taxation Act, to leave paragraph 22.3 in its original form. This is to solve the housing problem of our military personnel. We'll be in favour if this problem is solved in the budget, and then we can cancel this rule. As far as the air and seaports are concerned. Such a decision cannot be made because Ukraine has signed an agreement with ICAO. We had the president of ICAO, an international aviation and maritime organization a few weeks ago. This is the only way we can spend today on aviation and maritime security. I would ask you not to vote in favour of amendments to both the commercial and the aviation codes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u54	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so that we don't go through the following bills, I want to say that they want to eliminate the special road fund that goes to finance the roads. I can give an example of what happened to us. In 1998, the road fund was allocated $650 million, now up to $100 million! You don't have to record it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u56	Can I talk to you for a minute about two bills? For twelve years, I've been keeping those words from Peter I've been saying about a road case, "If anyone's going to do any roadblocks, hang the person without consideration." I'll give Peter the powder. [[Laughter, applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! We will not view this as a threat to the People’s Deputies. Powder, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u58	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[Election District 12, Viennese Region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This project was discussed in a comprehensive manner at the meeting of the Budget Committee, and after that consideration, we received numerous appeals from group leaders and factions regarding the Port and Aviation Congregation. I ask that when you put to the vote, vote in the first reading, and in the second reading, you withdraw your positions on the Port and Aviation congregations. Please vote in general. Regarding comments on the Income Taxation Act. Today, we have many cases of corruption, and the Committee on Budget Affairs is proposing and making a commitment that adequate financing for the construction of housing for military personnel will be planned in this year’s budget. This can be done by increasing income tax revenues. We have a source of expenditure, and about 500 million dollars will be allocated for the construction of housing for military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u59	Thank you. National Deputy Vaschuk. After that, she's the national deputy Klimpush. The next is the National Deputy Sobolev. After that, he's the national deputy of Terjehochin, and we'll finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u60	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] "Agrarians of Ukraine." Dear colleagues! We're in solidarity with those colleagues who think this bill can't be adopted right now. First of all, most of the special funds that are designed to support different directions, certain areas, are being eliminated. When it's included in the budget and even left the funding at that level, let's say it was in the past or in the present year, there's no guarantee that they'll get it. This year, four budget articles for agrarians were not funded or funded by 1 percent. Large - scale conditions are not financed at all; rural social construction is not financed at all. The latest articles are funded by 10-20 percent. So it will be the same with roads, ports, military housing. There are congregations to be left behind, and the same will be true with the development of gardening, grape growing, and hop farming. This is a special congregation. We're against it anyway. If this bill is adopted in the first reading, if this ideology is introduced, it will be difficult to change things before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the performances. People's deputy Klimpush. It's a motive. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u62	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[constituency 75, Zakarpatsk Region]] Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear fellow national MPs! The vast majority of you may well know why there are special funds in the state budget today. The point is, they have a need. I don't want to repeat what my colleagues here said, but there is a need, and they need to be preserved. The Ukrainian Road Finance Act provides that these funds are financed by tax revenue, excise collection, customs and petroleum products, transportation and the like. And it's the only source of funding for today and the already poor, poor roads. The role of roads in society is familiar to all of you. So I don't think we should do that, we shouldn't go that way. Reverend Peter Alekseiovich said yesterday that there are various funds for gardeners, travelers, and so forth. Although there are no travelers in this list, Peter Alexiyovich did not say that we would rule out the road fund in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u63	Thank you, Oreste Dmitrovich. You're convincing, thank you, we're on our way. National Deputy Sobolev, I've already named your last name. I'm asking for a cut.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u64	"Our Ukraine." Dear friends! I would like us to pay attention to the contradictions that arose in voting for this bill. Let's figure out, is general and special funds normal or not? Everyone understands that it's an abnormal phenomenon. That's the first one. The other one. How can the port and aviation congregations be budgeted in the first place? That's why I have this offer. Taking into account the proposals made by Prashenko, the bill was put to the vote in the first reading, excluding immediately the port and aviation congregations. As for all other special funds, if we leave this practice, we have to create a special wage fund for teachers, doctors, agrarians, and it will be an endless process. This has to be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u65	Thank you. People's deputies, Terjehochin, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u66	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[constituency 216, Kiev]] Thank you very much. Dear National Deputies! The principle laid down in this bill is true. Indeed, spending cannot be linked to individual budget incomes; it is a failure in normal fiscal policies. All costs should be proportionate. Indeed, this bill does not say anything about untaxed revenues, such as port congregations. They're not in the tax system, and they shouldn't be centralized at all. That's the first one. The other one. Article 22, paragraph 22.3 I would ask Mr. Dustenk very much when it comes to taxation, to contact a financial committee, not having information, not to start making decisions. Paragraph 22.3 of article 22 provides for the construction of homes for military personnel. Let's take them away, but only after the funding starts coming out of the government budget, not the other way around, as proposed right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. That's enough talking. Pomegranate replica, please. I don't think we can do this anymore. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind all of you that the numerous abuses in the implementation report for 2000-2001 and the first half of 2002 were related to the abuse of the special fund. The special funds were introduced in 2000 just to draw from the shadows those extra-budgetary costs that rotate and without the participation of the state budget. I would like to ask that, given what has been said today by numerous factions, we have now voted in the first reading of a bill to remove the port and aviation congregations, and in the second reading, we will try to take into account the position of most of the parliamentary groups and factions, including the agrarian, the NDP and others. [[Valerius Pavlovich, on your part, there have also been many comments, I take the words of Peter I.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! I want to tell you that when we discussed the issues, we had the opportunity to discuss, and now we have the voting process. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the basis of the proposals made by the Committee on the Elimination of Positions relating to Ports and Aviation. [[on the Special Fund for the National Budget of Ukraine]] Please make up your mind. "For" - 175. The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on public trust funds. The committee proposes that this document be accepted as a whole. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of this bill under number 1319. Please make up your mind. "For" - 132. The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues! The draft Law amending article 22 of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, number 1165, is being submitted to your consideration. Dear colleagues! The committee's proposing a rejection. So we have to vote first on the proposal of the national MP, and then, if no votes are cast, the bill will automatically be rejected. Please, who will be speaking from the committee? Porcelain Peter Alexiovich? Is there no need to speak? None. Please, for reasons of interest, is the National MP, Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u70	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Electoral District 187, Herson District]] The faction of the Socialist Party. I am now addressing all the national MPs, regardless of their party membership. The point is that these are six State Academys that are now funded through appropriate ministries and departments. Let's say the president of the Law Academy came up to me and said, "We are funded through the Ministry of Justice, but the Law Academy refers to both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the B.S.A. and other ministries of power." Thus, the president of the academy needs to go to the minister for a gift, wait for his funds to fall, and only then will he do his work. I say again, there will be no science in Ukraine -- there will be no Ukraine. We need to establish that no extra expenses are needed for the academy. We just need to adjust the funding order of the National Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Our colleague Nikolaynko was persuasive. I ask you to support this bill and vote for it. Please vote. "For" - 239. Decision taken. For reasons, please, the People's Deputy Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I ask that you return to Bill 1203, introduced by the President. This bill has received 205 votes, and I ask that it be re-readed as a financial committee. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, how can we be in this situation? Support me? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Dear colleagues! Since there's no consensus in the room, let's move on. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It's the people's deputy, Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u74	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the National Movement of Ukraine. I want to draw your attention to Bill 1165, just voted in the first reading, under which we want to make a number of academies. In our committee, there is a bill on the status of a national institution or institution. There are a number of national institutions or educational institutions that are of national importance. However, we have also considered making them the main managers of the state budget, which would correspond to their national status. So we have to define ourselves in principle: either we're modifying article 22, which limits the number of principals of the funds, or we're adding institutions like the Kyiv National University, the Kharkiv Law Academy, or, let's say, the National Reserves. [[They're just central authorities.]] And it seems to me that we are now doing unscrupulously, including only six academyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u75	National Deputy Assadchev. Please, colleagues, let's keep working. National Deputy Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u76	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Thank you. I'm only going to make one small replica, and you're all going to see if you're right or wrong about these bills. When the principals of the state funds are six colleges, they'll start arguing with each other, and believe me, they'll get a lot less money than they did when they were in the solid ministries -- the chief executives. And there would be more ways to protect them than if each academy were to protect itself. They won't get anything from the Ministry of Finance, and I don't know if the Supreme Council can help them either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. We discussed this bill yesterday. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. "For" - 332. There is a proposal to vote on this document as a whole as a law. National MP Bespali. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u78	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[electoral district 223, Kiev]] "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! This almost unanimity indicates that this bill is indeed necessary and will not escape from us in two weeks. But there are, in fact, legal moments that you might want to take a closer look at so that there are no collisions. And I think we'll do very wisely if we read it again carefully. Therefore, by exercising my right as a national deputy, in accordance with the Rules, I ask that I be given the opportunity to make proposals for second reading and not to now vote on the bill in the second reading definitively. I remind you that in accordance with the Rules for Voting as a whole, the agreement of all Ukrainian national deputies is necessary. We will not solve the conflict, but we will only deepen it if we vote on it as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u79	National Deputy Komar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u80	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[constituency 51, Donetsk Region]] Thank you. This bill we've been preparing all the vacations, without these amendments, we can't do anything about it, and you know that after the adoption of the law last year, no MP has received any compensation or housing. [[this article 35]] The deputies of the past vocation have made a law under them. This law doesn't work right now. This law is made, as they say, "for the rest of your life." Worked on the bill by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, there are the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the conclusion of the Chief Accountant. There's a maximum of documents. I think we should vote as the law, because it's going to be the end of the year, and those 19 million just won't be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There was a proposal to vote on the draft law as a whole as a law. I'll put it to a vote. Please support, taking into account the amendments made by the national MP Bespalogo. "For" - 336. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Let's move on. I'd like to ask you again to work quickly. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Judicial Act. [[on the creation deadlines for new institutions]] We discussed this paper yesterday. You know the position. There's a proposal for a committee to reject, and there's a project for the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm voting on the draft law as a basis. Please make up your mind. "To" - 97. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! The draft Law amending articles 2435, 24315 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code is being submitted to your consideration. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Please make up your mind. "For" - 181. The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues! The draft Law on Electronic Digital Signature is being submitted to your consideration. A professional committee on science and education suggests that we take this as a basis. Yesterday we had the opportunity to see how it was done in practice. I ask you to support and vote for the basis. Please vote. "For" - 346. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at State expense. We were looking at him yesterday, reported by the national deputy of Cherniak. There is a proposal to vote this bill as a basis. Please be supportive. "For" - 272. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the prosecution of legislative acts by executive authorities, local self-government bodies and their officials with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 4 January 2002. The committee proposes to defeat the President's veto. I'm betting on a vote on the President's veto proposal. Please make up your mind. Please cancel the vote. The procedure is the National MP, Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision on this point, I cannot name the number of the decision and give the decision, and they are voting on the President's proposals themselves. But before you take up the Supreme Council of Ukraine's proposal for this law, he needs to discuss it. If the President's proposals are rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. do not raise the necessary number of votes, then you are putting to the vote the issue of overcoming the veto, which requires 300 votes in accordance with the Constitution. [[226 votes]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u83	National Deputy Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u84	Dear National Deputies! I'm authorized by the committee to prove to you why the committee has proposed such a decision by considering it at its meeting. Article 55 of the Constitution, without any restrictions, enshrined the right of a person and citizen to defend his or her rights and freedoms and guaranteed everyone the right to be accused in the courts of decisions, actions or omissions of public authorities, local self-government bodies and officials. The decision of the Constitutional Court of October 1, 1998 on the jurisdiction of disputes before the Supreme Court of Arbitration states that article 106, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the power of the President of Ukraine to revoke acts of the Cabinet of Ministers does not extend to the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunals, in particular the Supreme Arbitral Court of Ukraine. So the President has his own right. The President's constitutional mandate to repeal the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers and to authorize the High Court of Arbitration to define such acts as invalid on the basis of legislation are the sole guarantees of legality in the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, which do not exclude each other. The powers of the Constitutional Court include the decision on the conformity of the Constitution, the constitutionality of the acts of the Cabinet, and not their legality. The stated position of the Constitutional Court refers to the entire judicial system, which consists of the household courts. Thus, the President's proposal on the illegality of relying on the courts of general jurisdiction to assess the legality of the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is unacceptable. Second position. According to article 55 of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine stresses that everyone is given the opportunity to appeal to the court with a complaint about the decisions, actions or omissions of public authorities, local authorities and their officials. This applies exclusively to the rights, freedoms, duties of a citizen, and not to the duties of a citizen. We prove that this is not the case. That is why the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the President's veto be overcome with regard to the Ukrainian Act of Amendment to Certain Legislative Acts on Accusation of Legislative Acts. The table was given to you, but it's just a misunderstanding. I think I've made enough arguments, there are still arguments that need to be consolidated today in order to act within the limits defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. I argued with the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I was in a hurry, I guess. There is a representative of the President, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine Pavlikovsky Lada Anatoliyevna. Please, Lado Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u86	Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Thank you for giving me your word. I would like to say that, indeed, the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Accusation of Legislative Acts of Executive Authorities, Local Self-Government Authorities and Their Officials contain two positions. The first position is to incorporate into the law under consideration the rules that give rise to the possibility of an accusation in the courts of general jurisdiction of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. According to the President, this rule is contrary to articles 106, 150, 152 of the Constitution. The second position, which, by the way, is also agreed with by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The law proposes to supplement Ukraine's Civil Procedural Code with a new chapter 31-D. It provides for the right of citizens, citizens' unifications, including political parties, their local centres, which are legal persons, to appeal to the court for the recognition of an illegal legal act by the executive body, the local self-government body or their officials, as well as the order for the courts to hear these complaints. This is not in line with the relevant provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine and other laws. The point is that the right to appeal to a court of law is granted only to citizens, including the Constitution. The proposed edition also grants such a right to the unification of citizens. This is contrary to article 55 of the Constitution. As for the settlement of issues concerning citizens, they are already settled in the existing chapter 31-A of the Code. That's why the President is proposing to reject the law, and he agrees with the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council Secretariat. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u87	National MP Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u88	The Viktor Yuschenka faction "Our Ukraine", the Ukrainian People's Movement. First of all, I would like to point out that the President's letter to the Supreme Council states that the rapporteur for the President's mandate should be the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice. So I don't understand who changed the President's decision, who has the right? Should this change in the President's decision be brought before a court of law? With all due respect to Mrs. Pavlikovsky's Deputy Secretary of State, I would like the President to be respected in carrying out his duties. And now, essentially, objections. Chapter 31-A refers to appeals to a court when the constitutional rights of citizens are violated, not to citizens' rights. Therefore, the acquired rights of citizens are not protected by chapter 31-A, and it should be said that the President's objections conflict with part two of article 124 of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which the jurisdiction of the courts in Ukraine extends to all the legal relations that arise in the state. At the same time, article 150, which refers to the competence of the Constitutional Court, refers only to the conformity of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, not to laws. The issue of competent disputes remains unresolved when decisions are made by the higher authorities. The President's mandate is to revoke the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers in administrative order, not in court. So all of these observations are not well - founded and do not fit the Constitution of Ukraine. So it's absolutely right for me to propose to the committee. We must uphold this law because it is it that implements article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I should have informed you that there was a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers suggesting that today, due to the absence of the Secretary of State, he be represented by the Deputy Secretary of State Pavlikovsky. Dear colleagues, do you understand the position? We need to vote on the President's proposals now. Are we going to vote each and every one of us? Dear colleagues, please take the table. I'm voting on the President of Ukraine's first proposal. He proposes to exclude a chapter concerning the right of citizens or associations of citizens to appeal to the court for the recognition of illegal legal acts by the executive authorities, local self-government bodies and their officials. I'll bet you a vote on the President's proposal. Please vote. "To" - 99. Not supported. I'm betting on the vote on the president's second proposal, which you have in the table. Please make up your mind. You've got, uh, respectable colleagues, table two, look, please, and vote for her. "To" - 130. I'll bet the vote on the President's next proposal. He suggests in article 248-27 the words "unification of citizens, including the political party, their local centres, which are legal persons" to exclude. I'm putting the President's motion to a vote. Please vote. "For" - 166. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the President's fourth proposal. Please vote. Dear colleagues, you have this document. Please vote. I won't be reading to you for long. Please vote. "For" - 176. Not accepted. I am betting on the President's fifth proposal, where he proposes to delete the paragraph. Please vote. "To" - 180. The decision is not taken. Please vote on the last, sixth, proposal by the President, who proposes to reject the law as one that is contrary to the Constitution and other laws of Ukraine, duplicates the norms of other laws. "For" - 181. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. "For" - 196. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, for your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 25 July 2002. Reporter from the Ministry of Finance, Jaremenko Alexander Stepanovich, Deputy Secretary of State. [[for the same reasons and because of the absence of Finance Minister Jusk Igor Olegovich]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u90	Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill under consideration today was returned with proposals by the President of Ukraine for reconsideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main reasons for the rejection were its inadequacy with the Constitution and the lack of financial resources to implement it. The text submitted for today’s session does not take into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and cannot be supported. The law proposes a rule that states that the government budget of Ukraine should provide for compensation payments for lost savings of at least one per cent of gross domestic product, i.e. about two and a half billion dollars. The law does not determine on the basis of which the government’s income is to be financed by compensatory payments of one percent of the gross domestic product. As a result of the 2003 budget forecast, revenue for the general government budget is declining. The formulation of the 2003 State Budget project is taking place in a context where there are many systemic problems in the tax and budgetary sphere, which does not significantly increase the revenue of the state budget, but also increases the expenditure accordingly. As a result, it is not possible to foresee additional allocations of two billion dollars to make compensatory payments of depreciated savings compared to the 500 million dollars foreseen in the State budget for this year. Furthermore, in accordance with article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the State seeks to balance Ukraine's budget, except in the State Budget Act, any expenditure incurred by the State on the general public needs is determined. The implementation of the law in the absence of a real source of funding for compensatory payments will not solve the problems of restoring citizens’ money savings and result in imbalances in the public budget, which will have negative economic and social consequences. The adoption of the Act amending the Law on State Guarantees for the Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings in the Drafting does not create a real compensation mechanism for citizens' loss of money savings. Taking into account what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Savings of Ukrainian Citizens to be withdrawn from consideration as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, you understand the offer. The president proposes to take the project off the table, and the committee recommends that we beat the veto. National MP Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u92	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, today the minister of finance was in the Supreme Council Hall. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the Supreme Council cannot fail to respect himself when the minister of finance in Kiev, not even on a mission, is sent here as a substitute. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg of you, this is disrespect for the Supreme Council. Soon you will not be allowed into the Cabinet of Ministers with a national deputy's certificate. And the next. I urge you people's deputies to overcome the President's veto. Clearly, the President does not want to return the savings to the citizens. You're all meeting voters. If people get these two billion dollars, they'll come to the shops with them, buy what they need. The standard of living will increase, and this is a real way to fight poverty. We must overcome the veto, despite the position of those who persuade the President of the money from the budget not to make a return on savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you again. Here's the official document. Since the budget is currently under consideration at 16 hours, the minister must be. We often work unrhythmicly, we draw ministers, and we can't look into the matter in our own terms, and we can't tie ministers to the hall. We will try to follow that approach in order to report to the first person. National MP Bondarchuk, from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u94	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear President! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Whoever remembers the contents of the State Guarantees and Restoration Act will confirm that in general there is no guarantee of this law to robbed investors. In fact, the whole point of the current law is that every year the budget provides a separate line of funds to repay public debt. What amounts are recorded is not clear to anyone, and each year these problems are solved differently. Therefore, over the past five years, some two dozen bills have already been considered to improve the mechanism. These bills were prepared by various factions. And now there are several bills in our Committee on Social Policy and Labour. They are all aimed at resolving this problem. The law that we voted on 5 July this year by this composition of the Supreme Council also aims to do so. We tied the amount to the gross domestic product. The President made a comment that we had not indicated the sources. The source is budget funding. We agreed to all his proposals. It is understood that this is done without the opening of individual accounts, regardless of the amount, the age of investors. It is paid to all equally and, as debt is repaid, the problem is solved. That is, there is a reluctance to deal with the problem. This year, 50 bracelets are returned to investors. At this rate, 250 years will solve this problem. The law that we voted on provides for the return of 200 bracelets a year, in principle, is not much, but it is at least a move. I believe there are funds to pay these amounts. Therefore, our committee has considered this observation by the President and invites the Supreme Council to overcome the veto. Once again, comrades, all of you, from all factions, have passed some of the same bills. Please support and overcome the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u95	National Deputy Hinzburg, Communist faction. Then there's the National MP, Zvaric. Dear colleagues, let's work quickly, because no one will be vetoed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u96	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 161, Sumska oblast]] Dear comrades, the adoption of this law is understandable but not understandable. Everyone in the room understands that this law must be passed. He's not like that, let the President propose his own. I asked for the floor to convey this problem. 50 bracelets that are being handed out to investors today and behind which they are in line. Officials who are responsible for this travel. Why can't they put order in order to at least humanely spend that money so that people don't stand behind them for three days. You can invite a card by mail or in some other way notify people not to humiliate them. Let's say that the President could be called today by the conditions under which these 50 bracelets are reimbursed, but humanely, tomorrow by 100, and then everything else. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u97	Thank you. National MP Zvaric, then the national MP Pavlovski, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am obliged to take the floor after your speech at the speech of Deputy Rudzkowski. The fact is that the Constitution of Ukraine gives one official the exclusive right to veto, that is, to make proposals to the laws approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This exclusive right is granted to the President of Ukraine. In order to carry out this mandate, he authorizes the appropriate official to present at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when considering his proposals for a law approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, an official. Nowhere in the Constitution has this right been granted to either the minister or, more importantly, the Secretary of State. Article 19 of the Constitution clearly stipulates that officials and officials may exercise or are obliged to exercise their powers within and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. I am not interested in the reasons why a person authorized by the President to present his proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved of the law will not be present at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This bill is to be withdrawn on the day of its consideration, because otherwise we are in grave violation not only of the Rules of our legislature but also of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is guaranteed by the President himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's the right position. If you have no objection, I'm going to have to make a draft decision on this, and we're going to make it clear that the issue is not being considered for the absence of an authorized person, and we're going to make that decision. Do you have a deal? National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u100	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in this law we've put in a very good logic where we take the money -- one percent of GDP. We hear every day that today GDP is already increasing 6 percent. So we take one sixth of what's grown, and we solve this problem. Either then there is no economic growth at all, or there is no good will to address the needs of the people, so there is no reason to support the President’s proposal. If there is economic growth, there is room to meet people's needs, and so I think we need to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject this law. People's deputies please identify themselves. "For" - 186. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on this law. People's deputies please identify themselves. "For" - 157. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Combating Corruption to the Proposals of the President of Ukraine of October 8, 2001 is under consideration. The committee proposes to enact this law in a new edition. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the proposal to adopt this law in a new edition. Please be supportive. "For" - 361. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the International Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. The committee proposes to ratify. Please vote. "For" - 358. Decision taken. I bring to your attention the draft Law on Ratification of the GUUAM Convention of States Parties on Mutual Assistance from Consular Issues. The committee recommends ratifying. I'll bet you a vote. Please be supportive. "For" - 322. Decision taken. National MP Musiak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u102	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The two laws that we have already voted on and the other 11 draft laws that are now proposed run counter to the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll tell you what this is about. Article 85, paragraph 32, defines the authority of the Supreme Council to accept the obligation of international agreements. Article 9 establishes that international agreements that are binding on the Supreme Council form an integral part of national legislation. Article 151 stipulates that the Constitutional Court may, at the request of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, conclude on the constitutionality of the international agreements that are in force and on those agreements that are made for agreement, be bound by the Supreme Council. I propose, first of all, in each of these draft laws, to replace the word "ratification" with "agreement." [[no more ratification]] Secondly, I ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to send a letter to the Cabinet of the Ministers to formulate the laws accordingly, which are to give consent in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I think we need to consider and respond accordingly. We'll do it. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, I'm looking at a draft law on the ratification of the Security Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The committee proposes to ratify by noting in the law on ratification that this treaty should be applied in compliance with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Out of procedure, please, National MP Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u104	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence. [[constituency 203, Cherniewec region]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Regrettably, I was unable to take part in the committee meeting when the matter was considered. And the committee accepted such a warning. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a bilateral agreement signed by authorized individuals from Ukraine and the alliance signed by the Secretary-General of the Alliance of Klaas. Under international law, no warnings are added to bilateral agreements. This covenant is either approved or not approved. We need to define our position clearly. The President said that most parliaments support the expansion of cooperation between the Alliance and Ukraine, and that is why we really need this agreement, which is accordingly ratified by international law. So I would ask that we ratify this agreement and put to the vote the draft law that introduced the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u105	National MP Zvaric. After that, the national deputies of Assadchev and Kruchkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to add to the words spoken by the People's Deputy of Manchulenka, and to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the Constitution, an international treaty that we are ratifying, that is, as enshrined in the Constitution, which we agree to be bound by, becomes part of the national legislation of Ukraine. And it actually has a priority. It cannot be that domestic laws take precedence over international treaties. This is contrary to the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. In order for this bill to be adopted in the form in which it is submitted by a professional committee, the International Contracts Act must be repealed. That's the first one. The other one. The exclusive right, not of the Supreme Council, but of the Heads of State or of its authorized persons to submit a bill of ratification. There is no provision in the Constitution for any right of national MPs to replace the bill that has been passed in this case by the President of Ukraine. So I propose, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to vote on a bill that was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u107	Thank you. National Deputy Assadchev, please. Then there's the people's deputy Kruczkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u108	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm always acting out of procedure. And now so do I. We are not allowed to include ratification bills in order of consideration. So we're not looking at them, we're just voting for them. And we've had such a sad practice. I think we need to give official figures to ratify the contracts that our main creditors have entered into, and then the State budget of Ukraine has come forward as a guarantor of these loans. I propose that every treaty, at least on the day of the vote, should provide a brief piece of information or report on the substance of the treaty, because we do not consider these issues as we consider the bills. Or let us put these issues into the order of the day and consider them. Because it's so easy to vote without knowing what, this part of our legislation that increases every day, I don't think it's quite right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would then like your approval to have the secretariat's instructions for each such document provided with appropriate assistance so that the National MP may be familiar with it. Please, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u110	Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, no one has deprived the legislative body of any of these matters of being warned. That's the first one. And that's what the Supreme Council did all the time. It's about the bill. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the National Deputies have a solid reference to this question, and if necessary, I could comment on it. It's all clear here. The agreement itself has a name for security, although it's very different -- about keeping confidential information. That's the first one. The other one. Our committee has considered twice, and I think the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered twice. We also discussed how to get out of the situation. We noted that the agreement was signed in March 1995, and the bill was introduced seven years later. It's an abnormal practice, and I wanted to emphasize it. Next. No one noticed that this agreement was made in English and French and that both texts were authentic. Since when have we lost respect for our native Ukrainian language and failed to enter into a covenant that our own language is the same? I'd like them to consider that. And about the deal itself. The committees concluded that the treaty should be ratified. No warning is needed at this time. But the committees suggested that the second paragraph should be: "Take note that, in accordance with Article 4 of the said Treaty, the Parties agree on standards and procedures for mutual security of information with limited access, which ensure compliance with the requirements established by the current legislation of Ukraine regarding the handling of classified and confidential information and its protection." In order to bring such standards into line, the Ukrainian Security Service took two years of hard work. And the Security Service has done so. With this in mind, we propose to ratify.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u111	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. National Deputy Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u112	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'm sorry to apologize at once, but, indeed, most of the people's deputies are not familiar with and they don't even know the substance of the draft ratification law that we are about to vote for, and that's what my colleague Assadchev is right about. Such practices should be put to an end. It's different. This bill says, "Dear colleagues, think about it!" - not about the security that Georgi Korniyovich has already mentioned from the rostrum, but practically about the exchange of classified information. That is, access to the secret information of our nation. That's why he's been lying around for seven years, and today, under some kind of summit, even what's in Prague, we're making and we want to adopt the law. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u113	Thank you. Just a minute. Dear colleagues! It's turning into a discussion. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. After him, Manchulenko. Then it's the people's deputy, Cherniak. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u114	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It's strange to hear that we can't ratify the treaty right now because we don't have the materials. I want to remind you that all the other ratifications were successful and voted in favour of the factions, which are now dissatisfied. Obviously, it's just that there's an abbreviation here like NATO, and we need to be honest about it. And in the course of our discussion, there were two positions. The first is to ratify with warnings, which is simply a violation of legislation, because bilateral agreements, correctly observed by Manchulenko, do not provide for warnings. It's just multilateral contracts -- one of the sides can. And the second, which is proposed by most of the people's deputies, is to ratify in the way that we've been offered the alliance and those who signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u115	Thank you. People's MP Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u116	The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! It's about language. NATO has two working languages: English and French. And the fact that the agreement is written like this is a perfectly normal international practice. That's the first one. The other one. The National Authority in Ukraine, which will be responsible for the implementation of this security agreement, is the Ukrainian Security Service. I would like very carefully to read the document, an explanatory note written by the Ukrainian Security Service. What Legal Consequences? The adoption of a treaty will not result in the adoption of new or amending existing legislative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u118	So I would like to put a government project to the vote, in order of coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u119	Thank you. National Deputy Cherniak. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u120	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you not to twist the substance of the matter -- not just that, but in this room in general. What touches directly on the draft ratification laws is that they are all discussed at the sessions of the profiling committees. There has never been a chance for the profile committee not to consider such a question. And the profile committee is making its proposal to the session hall. This is the first time. Second, you add the corresponding note, the information. There is everything that is necessary, and any MP who wishes will be able to vote with knowledge of the matter. But then you have to work with documents, as one hero put it, not translate the blame on someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u121	Thank you. People's MP Mishur, and we'll vote. Dear colleagues, enough, all of it! Let's go to the vote! This is a discussion. People's MP Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u122	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. I support, let's say, the Black guy's offer. He says the MP has to know everything to vote consciously. I want to ask you a question. I don't know who. Who signed this document, and why hasn't he been ratified for seven years? Who's to blame? Give me an answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, thank you. I'll put it to a vote. Two suggestions came in. I put these proposals in order of coming. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Security Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in accordance with the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please vote. Vote please! "For" - 254. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Turkmenistan on Long-term Trade and Economic Cooperation 2002-2010. The Special Committee recommends an agreement to ratify. I'm putting a bill on the vote. Please vote. Please turn the system on. "For" - 365. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am submitting to your consideration a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity. The committee supports this document. Please vote in favour of joining Ukraine in this protocol. Please vote. "For" - 390. Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Greek Republic on cooperation in the field of the prevention of industrial accidents, natural disasters and the elimination of their consequences. The committee recommends an agreement to ratify. I'm putting the project to a vote. Please be supportive. "For" - 389. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am introducing to your consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in the area of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences. The committee recommends an agreement to ratify. I'm putting the project to a vote. Please be supportive. "For" - 388. Decision taken. I'm asking the secretariat to work in plenary mode, not put an ad in. Please remain calm. I am introducing to your consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Ecuador. The committee recommends that the treaty be ratified. Please be supportive. Please vote. "For" - 389. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. The committee recommends that the treaty be ratified. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please be supportive. I'm asking the secretariat again-- just a vote! Do not highlight the document number. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. The committee recommends that the treaty be ratified. Please be supportive. Please vote. "For" - 380. Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Bulgaria on the Order and Conditions for the Transit Crossing of the Territory of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which form part of the international security forces, is being submitted for consideration. The committee recommends ratifying. Please be supportive. "For" - 377. Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on cooperation in the control of persons, goods and means of transport crossing the Ukrainian-Polish State border is being introduced. The committee recommends ratifying. I'll bet you a vote. Please be supportive. "For" - 391. Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the organisation and calculation of military inter-State transfers is being submitted for your consideration. The committee supports. Please be supportive. Dear colleagues, one minute, from the procedure of the national MP Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u124	The Viktor Yuschenka faction "Our Ukraine", the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head and honourable fellow MPs! In the materials that we were given along with the draft law, there is a letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stating that this agreement was signed in 1995 with a five - year term. Since it was not ratified, it was applied on temporary grounds. It has been seven years since it was signed, and it is still being applied. If we ratify it today, we will automatically extend its operation without a contract for another five years. Thus, it will be valid for 12 years instead of the five upon which it was signed from the very beginning. So I'm asking, what do we do?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u125	Thank you. People's deputy Kruczkov, Communist faction. Please. Then there's the National MP, Zvaric. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u126	Dear colleagues! The situation here is the same as with the previous agreement. The previous covenant was also concluded in 1995 and was actually applied. NATO has sent 290 confidential documents, Ukraine has sent four. So this is a similar situation. We, too, have not made up our minds on this issue once in a while. We invited the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has officially informed us that since the ratification has not taken place, this treaty will be legally valid after the ratification. Therefore, the committee concluded unanimously that the treaty should be ratified. I understand that the word "Russia" affects someone like a red pot to know who, but that's no reason to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u127	National MP Zvaric. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u128	Dear colleagues! Just because I support the need to maintain a strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, I would like us to ratify the agreement in accordance with actual legislation. The agreement on the order of admission and the conditions for the presence of the armed forces of other States is governed by the relevant law, which is considered to be fundamental, i.e. the order in which such contracts are made. This law, which has already taken effect and has been submitted to this Hall by the National Security and Defence Committee, makes it very clear what should be stated in such a treaty. [[headed by my then respected colleague Kruczko]] In particular, there must be a composition and structure of the armed forces of another state, as well as a number of weapons and military equipment that will pass through our territory. There must be a clear ban on the transport of nuclear weapons in the covenant under this law. There's nothing in this contract. So in view of the need to maintain a strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers pay attention to this situation and make a new deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the organisation and calculation of military inter-State transfers. Please be supportive. Please vote. "For" - 282. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I'd like to give you some nice information, make an announcement. We continue our workday for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues! You are considering a draft Act amending Ukraine’s Civil Procedural Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Court Decisions in Ukraine. The Legal Committee suggests that it be accepted as a basis. Please vote if there is no objection. National MP Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u130	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction. I apologize to you and the deputies. I'm still asking for words from the procedure on the question that we've completed. That's what this is all about. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Fellow MPs have indeed made many suggestions on how to deal with ratification issues. Unfortunately, there are such important issues as ratification, we don't discuss, we don't listen, we just vote, we don't know anything. [[It wasn't your fault. Of course it was your predecessors.]] Let's still stick to the rules so that the ratification issue is necessarily, like any other issue that is brought up for consideration by the Supreme Council, discussed. I mean, I would ask that we go back to that kind of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u131	Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u132	Thank you. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers give a protocol commission to oblige the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to submit the relevant documents in time for ratification. That's the first one. The other one. Legislation and the Constitution must be followed, and if bilateral agreements are to be concluded, one of the copies should be in the Ukrainian language. Whether they use English or French in NATO, we have to work in Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, no objection? None. Thus, such a protocol commission will be directed. National deputy Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u134	Dear colleagues! I'm talking about the motivation for voting Bill 0007. We voted it out. Let it be, that's how it is. But I'd just like to draw your attention to this: you don't have to politicize this question, say that someone in the word "Russia" is shivering. It's a normal relationship. However, if we today have voted blindly on this bill and there are no, say, prohibitions on the transport of nuclear weapons and so on, what kind of State are we? I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to remake this deal and submit it for approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending Ukraine’s Civil Procedural Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Recognition and Enforcement in Ukraine of Foreign Court Decisions. Please vote. "For" - 368. Decision taken. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State supervision of compliance with standards, norms and rules and responsibility for violations. [[in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Documentation Fund]] The committee's offering to take it as a basis. I'll bet you a vote. Please be supportive. "For" - 375. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Installations, Nuclear Materials, Radioactive Wastes, and other sources of ionizing radiation at number 118 is being considered. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Please support. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u136	We didn't discuss these bills at all. What laws do these changes make? One must say, no one has seen them in their eyes!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u137	The committee doesn't think it's necessary to discuss it. There are laws. Dear colleagues, National MP Klukkowski proposes to discuss the projects. Is there a need to discuss? None. I am voting on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Law on Physical Protection of Nuclear Installations, Nuclear Materials, Radioactive Wastes, Other Sources of Ionizing Radiation. Please vote. Dear colleagues, the technique will rest, we will now vote. Dear colleagues, while the system is being set up, we will next consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Postal Law. If we need to discuss this, let's now vote in favour of a reduced procedure. You don't? What's wrong with the system? Dear colleagues, the 18-hour system will automatically shut down, and it will now be repaired. National MP Rudzkowski from the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u138	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Taking advantage of the opportunity to discuss the issue of communication, I would like to draw the attention of all the national deputies to the fact that in many parts of Ukraine the press is now closing down. I believe that the Supreme Council needs to give a protocol mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers to inform the Supreme Council of the impossibility of such actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u139	Thank you. People's MP Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u140	The Viktor Yuschenka faction "Our Ukraine", the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I understand very well that these bills can be very simple and do not call for a full discussion, and I understand that that's why we didn't discuss them on Tuesday or Wednesday, but we're putting them to a short-term vote today. I even agree that if the title of the law makes it clear that we are voting, then perhaps no one should go to the rostrum. But when we have four bills to amend certain laws of Ukraine, we need to go to the rostrum and tell what laws we are amending. Why, there is nothing to know, to discuss, and to vote! Let us at least follow some basic procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u141	Dear colleagues! That's a good point. I think we should take it into account. I am voting on the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Installations, Nuclear Materials, Radioactive Wastes, Other Sources of Ionizing Radiation. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. I'll bet the vote on the basis. Please vote. "For" - 363. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! You are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s laws in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Postal Law. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Let's trust the committee. It's the people's deputy Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u142	The Communist faction. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I am absolutely in solidarity with my colleague Klukkowski, who says that, in fact, we should think about what we are voting for in this law. I want to inform you now, if we accept this bill now, then we will deprive you of the right to issue pensions. [[if they do not inform those who should inform]] So let's think about what we're going to do for the absolute majority of our laborers who are constantly getting their postage pensions? Some banks want their pension only through banks to make a profit. They want to take away the work of postmen, who also have some money to bring this pension. So I very much urge you to be careful when voting on this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u143	Dear colleagues! What are we going to do? Why don't we postpone his vote? National MP Zvaric from the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u144	The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Since we are already showing such solidarity, particularly with the communists, I would like to reinforce this solidarity and draw your attention, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the fact that these bills are put into the agenda of the section "In summary procedure." Since they were not discussed at previous meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, you should propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a short procedure for considering the bill, i.e. two-for-two-against, and also, of course, a speech by a professional committee or an authorized person from the government to carry out the bill through the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would ask that we still apply this procedure in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have four such questions. Even if we follow the reduced procedure now, we won't consider it. I suggest that we keep our normal working rhythm, move their votes to the next time, so that we can discuss them and then accept them. [[B in m in s a l in]] National Deputy Seminouk, please make your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u146	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Since the session is not closed and we work for 15 minutes longer, let's put this project to a vote, as provided for by the Rules. The members of the Supreme Council realized that it was not possible for today’s postmen to be deprived of their jobs, and it was necessary for the pension to reach every citizen. We vote as conscientiously suggests, and we'll take off the tension between those bankers who are today lobbying the issue of renting pensions for the profits of their banks and the postmen. Put the draft to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u147	Dear colleagues! Two suggestions were made. The first sentence is to postpone the vote, and the second sentence is to vote. Let's now define by vote. I'm betting on the committee's proposal to accept the draft as a basis. Please vote. "To" - 64. Let's see the factions. Project rejected. Dear colleagues, one minute, wait! Dear colleagues, are we going to consider the following three bills under reduced procedure? National MP Shufrich, are you out of procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u148	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 201, Cherkas region]] Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to ask you, however, to give me the opportunity to work on the committee that I have worked on for four years and to return to draft decree number 2180 and put it to the vote again. For four years I worked on this committee! Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u149	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Let's be mutually tolerant. I'm voting on draft decree number 2180 on the election of Ukrainian national deputy Shufrech as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. A man wants to work there, let's give him that opportunity. "For" - 220. Dear colleagues! Let's move on. I'm asking you, the classics said, "Let's wait, convince people, vote." Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Air Protection Act. The committee's offering to accept. National MP Bespali. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u150	The city of Kiev, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! It has already been said that under a reduced procedure, it does not mean anything without a procedure. The concept of a reduced procedure is clearly and clearly set forth in the Supreme Council Rules. Finally, it is the authority of Ukraine’s only higher legislative body, the Ukrainian Parliament. So I'm now proposing not to go through all these draft laws further, but to look at them, really, in the short term, but in the right order. Let us respect ourselves, our constituents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-12-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, we have five minutes left, and we need to consider three documents. We're not going to look at them. We have one draft decision -- the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the underground youth organization Youth Guard. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, I propose to vote on this motion for a ruling in general without discussion. Please vote. "For" - 271. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you so much for your fruitful work together.
