ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Please, Your Honor, take your jobs, get ready to register. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There were 312 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, in our session, are present: President of Ukraine Leonid Danilovich Kuchma; members of the government headed by Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh of Ukraine; acting as Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine; representative of the Constitutional Court; head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, today at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights Nina Ivanovna Karpacheva, are present the Human Rights Commissioner of the Russian Federation, Oleg Orestovich Mironov, and members of the Russian delegation. [[Applause]] Let us wish the Human Rights Commissioner of our country of fruitful work in the protection of human rights and freedoms and the citizen of the Russian Federation, including Ukrainian citizens. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, as you know, on July 11, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine by secret ballot appointed the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Pavel Mikolaiovich Tkajak. In accordance with article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the judge of the Constitutional Court takes office from the day he took his oath at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the participation of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Paul Mikolaiovich Tkayuk, is invited. Please, Paul Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u2	Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I, Tkakov Pavel Mikolaiovich, solemnly swear to honor and conscientiously perform the high duty of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to respect and protect human rights and freedoms, the constitutional system of Ukraine and the rule of its Basic Law, to keep the service secret. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u3	I thank the President of Ukraine, the members of the Ukrainian government, the representatives of the judiciary for taking part in the oath-making ceremony of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear National Deputies, you were handed out yesterday at the meeting of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, September 10-13, 2002, registration number 2166. Dear colleagues, we agreed at the Conciliation Council that we will vote on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for September 10-13, 2002, 2166 without discussion, as all positions are agreed upon. One minute, from the procedure, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, a faction of Communists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u4	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, really yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting, we agreed to support the proposed draft decision, but this was the case. Yesterday our Committee on Rules came up with a draft Act amending the Law on the Status of Peoples’ Deputies, which we believe should be considered urgently. And today, at a committee meeting, this will be done. So I'd like registration number 2162 to include for discussion on Wednesday, so that we can make the right decision on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u5	Will there be no objection, dear colleagues? None. What are some other considerations? Please, National Deputy Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u6	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Electoral District 187, Herson District]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in the faction of the Socialists, such a request. Ivan Sidorovich Boki asked, and I supported him at the Conciliation Council meeting, to ask on Wednesday about the draft Law on Elections of the People's Deputies of Rudzkowski, Winski and parallel to Gavrish, Joseph, Martinyuk. Anatoly Matvienko has already considered this bill in order not to be ready but to consider it immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, we can put this bill when it's ready for consideration. Is there no objection? Honorable Fellows Who Are Still Thinking? I am voting on the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 10 to 13 September 2002 in 2166, taking into account the proposals of the people's deputies Matthew and Nikolayenka. Please vote, Your Honor. "For" - 275. Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council's decision of 4 July this year, raise questions about the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy, as well as information by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of national policy on the implementation of Ukraine's laws on the natural reserve of Ukraine, on the protection of cultural heritage and on the compliance of officials with the requirements of current legislation regarding the National Hortician Ombudsman and other historical cultural commandments and objects of the natural reserve. Regarding the time limit for these issues. Dear colleagues, Government Day is held for 3 hours for 30 minutes of work. One question is expected to take place for 2 hours 10 minutes, and we have two questions to consider. Therefore, the committees propose, in keeping with the basic requirements of the Government Day, to reduce the time to answer both in writing and directly from the session hall and to expand the circle of co-reporters from the professional committees. Will there be no objection? Taking into account the Committee's proposals, the following rules could be set: the first question will be given up to 15 minutes; the second, up to 15 minutes each; the second, to answer the written and oral questions, within 30 minutes; the first question will be given to two representatives from the first question and three from the second, within 5 to 7 minutes, and the debate will be held within 20 minutes. Is there no objection? And about 2:00 p.m. to sum up the government's day in Parliament. So we're going to take about an hour and a half for each issue. If there is no objection, let us move on to the issue of the order of the day. On the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Sahan Ivan Jakovic is the spokesman for the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, Ivan Jacobovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u8	Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National MPs. In his recent address to the Ukrainian people, the President of Ukraine defined the solution to the problem of poverty as a priority and an immediate solution. The Supreme Council of the New Call also accidentally begins its second session on this very issue. Indeed, the problem is extremely pressing, acute, and directly related to the lives of millions of fellow countrymen. The World Summit, recently concluded in Johannesburg, showed that the problem of poverty is international and relevant to all countries of the world. I am confident that an objective, impartial, and professional analysis of the problem at such a high level will enable us not only to assess what has been done but also to determine the direction of further action by both the government and the Supreme Council to achieve the primary goal of a more radical, dynamic improvement in the welfare of Ukrainian citizens. Since the national MPs in the matter have sufficient information, additional information materials would be considered possible within the scope of the Rules. The President’s decree on the Poverty Reduction Strategy for the first time a year ago gave a comprehensive assessment of poverty in Ukraine as a social phenomenon, defined the depth of the problem, set out the main directions for its solution. To implement the Poverty Alleviation Strategy at the end of last year, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the Integrated Programme for the Implementation of the Poverty Alleviation Strategy, which identified specific first-stage tasks. In practical work, the government has found that the basis for overcoming poverty in Ukraine is macroeconomic stability, overcoming crisis at the production level, increasing gross domestic product, increasing industrial and agricultural production, and increasing the social orientation of reforms. In 2002, the real increase in gross domestic product reached 9.1 percent. From the beginning of this year, real GDP growth was 4.4 percent compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. Industrial and agricultural production are increasing. Inflation processes have stabilized, which is one of the major factors in the steady rise in real population income. In 2001, the inflation index was the lowest in Ukraine’s years of independence. During January-August 2002, deflation was observed, consumer market prices fell by 3.5 percent. Over the last two years, retail trade has increased by 22 percent, and this year it's 16.5 percent. Economic growth, active government action, has contributed to increased employment. According to the latest quarterly surveys, the number of employed people has increased, the employment rate has increased. According to the survey, the number of unemployed citizens decreased by 365 thousand, or 13.3 percent. The unemployment rate was 10.6 percent, whereas last year it was 12.1 percent. During the past year and seven months of this year, 1.3 million citizens have been employed through the employment service. In 2001, the number of employees on administrative leave decreased by 2.4 times. The number of part - time workers has decreased. A positive trend is also observed this year. I will point out that such noticeable changes have become possible since the Supreme Council amended the Ukrainian Vacation Act, which repealed the rules for granting free leave from the initiative of the Administration. Constant economic growth, the constant attention of the government, contributed to an increase in the income of the population. During the past year, the real income of the population increased by 9 percent. In January and July of this year, compared to the corresponding period, 26.8 percent. The middle-hearted income in July first exceeded the statutory minimum of living. [[That's a good look on the screen.]] Since the beginning of the year, the average monthly wage has been 357 dollars, an increase of 22.8 percent compared to the corresponding period of last year. Last year's real salary increased by 19.3 and the current year's by 18.8 percent. During this time, the minimum wage since January 1999 has increased more than double. In July of this year, wages reached 398 dollars and exceeded the legal minimum of living for a working person by more than 9 percent and the actual subsistence minimum by 22 percent. In industry, I emphasize that the average wage was more than 500 dollars. The income of the rural population, particularly the low - income families, is greatly influenced by income from land and property rentals. Last year, 5.5 million renters received nearly 2 billion dollars of rent. On the average, each tenant received an additional $365 in the family budget. As far as debt is concerned. The government keeps this problem under constant control. During the period of the President's decree, debt in the budget area has been completely eliminated, and it has been reduced by almost 2.1 billion dollars in economic terms. It's about social insurance. Its introduction in Ukraine has created preconditions for ensuring social protection for international workers, laying the groundwork for ensuring the constitutional rights of citizens to social protection against poverty in insurance cases. The insurance system has been in operation for less than two years, but it has been able to declare itself confidently. In the absence of time, I will not give any arguments to support these. The increase in wages and wages has made it possible to increase the income of the pension fund significantly. In 2001, compared to last year, they increased by 3.3 billion, and in seven months they increased by more than 2 billion. This made it possible to increase pensions five times over the past and present years. The real pension increased by 55 percent. Retirement has been increased for disabled people from military personnel, miners with long-term underground jobs. In support of the most vulnerable populations. Practical steps are being taken to reform the system, provide social assistance, develop a social network, improve the quality of social services, provide targeted assistance to low - income families, and test the provision of social assistance on a single application. From 50 to 80 dollars, the provision of a subsistence minimum of government assistance to low - income families has been increased. The average monthly amount of help for families with children has increased almost threefold, and for low - income families, it has increased to 107. In the past and present years, such assistance has been provided to 256 thousand families for more than 346 million dollars. Money has been provided to disabled children and children with disabilities, as well as cash subsidies for solid fuel and scrapped gas. You can see on the screen how a network of boarding houses, territorial social services centers, disability rehabilitation centers are developing, and their material base is being strengthened. Since 2001, Ukraine has been implementing the National Programme for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Limited Physical Capabilities, the production of means of movement, prosthetics, housing, sociocultural facilities, and public transportation for the needs of persons with disabilities. In general, spending on social protection is increasing annually. As you can see on the screen, their share of total budget spending increased from 11.9 percent in 1999 to 15 percent in 2001. The government, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, are constantly searching for, besides budgeting, and additional funds for overcoming poverty and supporting citizens who are under difficult living conditions. In accordance with the orders of the President of Ukraine, the All-U.S. Charity Action is held annually. Over the course of three years, about 6 million underprivileged citizens received a total of 321 million dollars. We invite all the National Deputies to take an active part in this charity campaign, which began on September 1st this year. With the aim of solving the acute health problems, the government has approved a number of national programs, such as a state-guaranteed state-guaranteed medical care programme. To improve people’s access to health care, its quality in 2002 has increased by almost 48 percent. Programmes such as the AIDS epidemic, the provision of insulin to patients, medical care for cardiosurgery, and cancer patients include 394 million, compared with 179 in 2001. To overcome the tuberculosis epidemic, there are 101 million, 1.8 times more than in 2001. The State fully ensures the constitutional right to complete general secondary education. This is facilitated by an extensive network of educational institutions of various types, free of charge provided by school textbooks and PTUs. There are orphans and half-orphans in the whole state supply system. Children with disabilities are taught free of charge in the education institutions of the Ministry of Labour system. Higher education opportunities have increased at the expense of the state budget. In 2002, the volume of government procurement increased by 8 percent and at absolute rates exceeded the volume of 1990. In the current year, funding for measures to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is being fully implemented within the limits of the public budget. Pensions have been increased for workers who have been released in connection with the closure of CHAES, and for persons with disabilities who have had to deal with the consequences of the disaster. Measures are being taken to address the housing problem, and the State Housing Support Program for Young Families is being developed through the provision of long - term loans for construction and housing and the provision of mortgages for individual rural builders. Housing and utilities have begun to reform the industry, which will reduce the cost of services and thus make them accessible to all categories of the population. The prevention of childlessness and their social rehabilitation are improving. There are 89 shelters for minors, where since the beginning of this year more than 28,000 children have received social protection. The hard work of the government, the local authorities in general, ensures the implementation of the comprehensive poverty eradication program. As you can see, poverty in 2001 declined from 29.8 percent to 27.2 percent. During this period, the decline occurred from 26.5 to 23.8 percent. The trend towards lowering poverty rates was maintained in the first quarter of 2002. By giving arguments that indicate some positive shifts in this extremely important direction, we realize that this is just the beginning of large and long - term work. The government realizes that in Ukraine as a whole and in most regions the problem of poverty remains extremely vicious. Nearly 13 million of our fellow countrymen belong to the poor. Families with children, especially large families and families with children under three years of age, are most affected by poverty. In difficult circumstances, there are also families that are made up of individuals who are 75 years of age or older. The most difficult situation with poverty is in Crimea, Zakarpatski, Hmelnicki, Hersonski, Mikolaiyivsk, Volinski and Lugansk areas, where poverty rates are much higher than the average in Ukraine. The basic State social security guarantees are still not reaching the minimum of living. The average wage in nine regions is lower than the minimum wage. A particularly low wage remains in agriculture. Despite the increase, it is also low in the budget. The wage gap between regions and economic activities is slowly shrinking, the productivity of many enterprises remains low, the job losses are high, and nearly 1.2 million workers are paid lower than the minimum wage. The problem of timeliness and full pay in the manufacturing sector, particularly in the coal industry and agriculture, has not been fully solved. Unemployment rates remain high, including in Kirovograd, Sumskia, Ternopil, and a number of other areas. The number of new jobs is slowly increasing. As before, the number of employees released from the company exceeds the number of employees. The problem remains the employment of people with limited physical capacity, young people, and graduates of educational institutions. The contradictions between the quality of the workforce and the needs of the economy are exacerbated. The social protection of citizens working abroad is not properly addressed. In a number of areas, funding is limited to providing assistance to families with children and low - income families. The adoption of basic pension laws that hinders a fundamental solution to this problem is also delayed, and there are problems with the quality of medical care, medical services, and insufficient measures to detune the economy. This, in particular, distorts the income of the population, the wages, the standard of living. All these and a number of other directions of work are included in the implementation of the 2nd phase of the Poverty Reduction Strategy, which will be approved by the government in November of this year. The implementation of the second phase of the programme should provide a prerequisite for a stable increase in population income, a further reduction in poverty and the formation of a middle class in Ukraine. We hope that today will be a truly interesting, constructive discussion of overcoming poverty. Discussions on this issue in the Supreme Council, specific proposals and comments by national deputies, will allow for the expansion and deepening of the second stage of the government’s strategy. We also expect that the Supreme Council will support the government’s proposals for an immediate review of a number of bills that cannot be addressed in a fundamental way without adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, the report is concluded, John Jacobic has written questions. I think there will be questions directly from you. Maybe that's how we'll do it: one question is written, the other question is from the room, because the written answer can be given directly to those who put it. Please, Ivan Jacobovich. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please point it on the board. Thank you. Then let's start with a written question, and then we'll be out of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u10	Question to the Committee on Social Policy and Labour: "As you know, the most important component of the population's income is pay. In recent times its share has been increasing, but the minimum wage level is lower than that of poverty, which is unwarranted either from a social or a political point of view. What will be the practical steps of the government in 2003 to ensure that the minimum wage level is not lower than that of poverty?" Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in recent years the minimum wage has increased elevenfold. I emphasize this in order to make it clear how high the rate of growth is. And the average monthly wage in the economy of Ukraine increased by 2.8 times during this period. So the gap between the average and the minimum wage is shrinking rapidly. I must stress that the introduction of a minimum wage of 165 dollars per month in the budget area from 1 July of this year is carried out only within the limits provided for in the budgets of all the levels of expenditure on work approved by the budget. I mean, the wage fund didn't go up, and its minimum level has gone up a lot. Thus, the ratio between the official salaries of the principal category of working teachers, physicians, government scientists, is reduced to a critical limit, causing a fair complaining of these basic categories. There are also serious problems in agriculture. As a result, I'd like to point out that we're all interested in making the minimum wage rate go up as fast as possible to reach the minimum of living, and that would be the best indicator. Today, however, we need to move away from the real possibilities of the budget, with the need to balance it. And what's most important is to restore the ratio that is lost today as a result of the introduction of the minimum wage without a corresponding increase in the wage fund. I believe that the increase in the minimum wage without the increase in the wage fund will also be unwarranted from an economic or social point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u11	National MP Rishnjak, Agrarian faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u12	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[electoral district 162, Sumska oblast]] Dear John Yakovich, I would like to ask you this question: How is the President of Ukraine's decree to strengthen the social protection of military and military personnel and members of the military and superior internal affairs bodies being implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u13	Thank you. The question is very interesting, very serious. The government has decided to increase pensions for military personnel. As far as the officer’s composition is concerned, there are serious legislative problems. The fact is that today the level of pension insurance for military personnel is made through the payment of pensions in person, resulting from the salary and allowances that this person had. Those officers who retired before the adoption of the law and who did not have the additional allowances that are now in place have a much lower pension rate than those who retire today, after the adoption of the law, when the corresponding allowances are included in the amount of pension insurance. The government is working on this issue, creating an appropriate working group led by a representative of the Ministry of Defence. And we're working with them on possible solutions to the issue, based on the actual budget possibilities, so that with the increase in the amount of cash maintenance to be made on January 1st next year, there are certain shifts for the better and in the retirement provision of military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u14	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u15	The written question is, "How do you appreciate the situation in the labour market? And how do employment and unemployment problems affect the standard of living of citizens?" I think we're in the process of stabilizing. And to confirm that, you can give a lot of indicators, especially those I've already mentioned in the report. We're going down in unemployment, we're going down in unemployment. There is a corresponding increase in the number of employees, and the situation with jobs in Ukraine is improving. And I want to point out right now that we're still working on this, we're looking for ways to do things that can make a radical change to a better job creation situation. In this context, we're looking at as one of the most important ways of doing this is to develop entrepreneurship, create the right conditions for people to be able to engage in self-employment. There are some positive developments here, but they're not active enough. I believe that the Council, which took place with the participation of the President of Ukraine in the development of entrepreneurship, should provide a serious incentive to improve this work. In general, there are also a number of documents that enable us to systematize this work. In particular, the State Employment Programme, which is already being implemented, has been approved for the first time in the fields. All of this in the complex allows us to move forward in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u16	National MP Gurov, National Authority MP. I ask questions in a concise manner and to give a concise answer, for there are so many who want to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u17	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[electoral district 32, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] Dear Ivan Yakovlevich, what you're optimistic about is that we already know, thank God, we've known you for a long time. I was in Donetsk on 7 and 8 September. He spent the day at the Donetsk Metalworks Plant, and the second one at the Maceev Steel Plant. The distance between them is small, 15 minutes drive. The Donetsk Metalworks Plant and its collective are thriving, with one of the highest wages there. In Makeevka, even the President has already intervened in his work, the factory is virtually shut down. This is the question: where will the poverty rate be higher - in the Donetsk Metalworks or in Makeevsky? And if you can, you're in sociology, why? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u18	The question is, I'd say it's too important. Indeed, we have many enterprises that have already gone through the construction phase, overcome crisis periods, take turns, and have serious opportunities to raise wages and the corresponding family income. And that's true. I could give you numbers, but I don't have time for that. At the same time, there are a lot of businesses that continue to be in extremely difficult financial and economic conditions. And the Macyev metallurgical combination is one of those. As to the reason for this, I think you, as a metallurgy, might be better able to answer that question. But I think there are a number of problems that need to be taken into account, and above all the management that needs to be at the level of today's demands. It must be done in such a way that it has both a perspective and a development that will provide income for both workers and members of their families. With regard to other problems, I think, since you were there, you can also reveal many of the disadvantages of the company’s work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u19	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u20	"What is the poverty line for today and how is it defined?" The poverty line is defined as the ratio of the value of the relative poverty criterion selected in Ukraine based on a comprehensive survey of the living conditions of households to one person's living minimum per month. The poverty eradication strategy sets the only criterion for the inclusion of different types of population in the poor category, 75 percent of the median total cost for a conditioned adult based on data on the sampling of household living conditions. The use of this indicator because of spending rather than modern income is most appropriate, because today the level of official income is clearly not equal to the real income of the population. I'm going to remind you that in the current year, in six months, population spending has exceeded the official income of 20 billion people. So this method obviously has the right to life, especially since the same mechanism for carrying out these tests is being implemented in the countries of Europe with which we share borders, and they work in the same way. So for 2001, the poverty line is calculated on the accepted criteria, and on January 1, this year it was 175. I would like to stress in particular that 75 percent of the cost. The higher the population costs, the higher the poverty line. And it's clear that these percentages will be differentiated all the time. And if you look at absolute figures, let's say what happened because population spending went up by 25 percent and the poverty line went up by 20 percent, you have to put it together with inflation, then it gives you the opportunity to see a real picture, not just a composite picture. Because if you go that way, increasing the poverty line doesn't mean a deterioration in living standards, because spending is increasing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u21	National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u22	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy, Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Thank you. The city of Mariupol. Dear Ivan Yakovlevich! The healthy people, and you, among other things, are well aware that an increase of 5 to 10 percent will not solve the major problem to date. The increase in contributions to the Pension Fund, you also know that, for the producer, it's a waste. [[34 kopecks]] The consolidated system has almost survived. What, though, will be the pension reform strategy, what does the Ministry intend to do in this regard? When are we going to start taking the first steps in this direction? That's the first question. The second question concerns translation factors. Ivan Yakovlevich, neither we nor you, I don't think, are able to explain to the retirees why it's these factors, who invented them. And why does it go like this: if on December 31st he retired, one amount, and on January 1st he retired? And question three. To change the system and to fill the budget today, the tax system needs to be reformed. That's clear and clear. The new Tax Code, we can see for a fact, is still small on the horizon, but at least the income tax needs to be streamlined - something that will allow wages to be removed from the shadows and the budget to be filled. How can we solve the problem today and what is your ministry's position in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u23	Thank you. I will briefly answer these questions. I fully agree with you that you were going to increase your pension by 5 to 10 percent, but I emphasize that in the past and current years we have increased your pension by five times, i.e. by 61 percent, while the real pension has increased by 55 percent. This is, I think, a serious indicator, and you can't count it. And one more accent. An increase of even 10 dollars per pensioner means 140 million additional financial resources per month, which is 1.6 billion dollars per year. I would like to emphasize that this year the Pension Fund has already paid a pension of 3 billion dollars more than it did last year. This all shows that the government is taking real steps in this direction, but they are not enough. I fully share your view that it is necessary to adopt laws on the introduction of compulsory government pension insurance and non-State pension insurance. Without the adoption of these laws, we're going to keep banging on the spot, because it's no longer possible to increase the salary fund, and otherwise it's practically impossible to raise pensions. I would also like to emphasize the need for childish pay. We need to show you the real opportunity to get a legal salary, it'll give you a much bigger income from the Pension Fund and allow you to make the right decisions. In terms of strategy, I would like to say that the bill has been in the Supreme Council for two and a half years now, it was adopted in the first reading. I hope that this composition of the Supreme Council will be able to consider this bill this year, to adopt it, and thus, from January 1st of next year, we will have a law that will provide real possibilities for solving the issues, including those you have discussed. The bill, which we have just submitted, provides for immediate adoption, literally in a short period of time, cancellation of the ceiling, full restoration of pension differentiation, depending on wages and employment. And that's going to take away the problems you were talking about today. As far as taxation is concerned. I fully agree with you that serious work is needed to reduce tax pressure, but legalization of income is also needed, legalization of activities. Because if it doesn't, you understand. We can cut the salary bill, but there won't be any proper income for the Pension Fund, and we'll even lose the level of pay. As a first step, we feel that the Law on the Taxation of the Income of Individuals must be adopted. We also predicted a change in the ratio between employers and employees, but that's a separate topic, and I'm not going to stop at it right now. I believe that if the Supreme Council adopts this bill, it will do a great deal to stimulate the childization of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u24	Ivan Jacobovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u25	The written question is, "A major source of family budgets and the fight against poverty for all citizens should be dividends from voucher certificates, because the vast majority of shareholders don't pay their shareholders, or pay 2-5 dollars. At the same time, executives pay for their children’s education, build housing, travel abroad, and so forth. What is the government's position on solving this issue?" Indeed, this is an extremely difficult problem. In the process of privatization, which you remember well and were also involved in, it turns out that the certificates deposited are in most cases small deposits, and shareholders are not actually affected by the decisions of the shareholders’ authorities, and they are acting as they would be intended by the owners of the controlling stocks. In order to protect small shareholders and to implement the President's decree on measures to develop corporate governance in shareholders' societies, bills are being prepared to improve the legal principles of corporate governance in shareholders' societies. In particular, it is envisaged to ensure effective protection of the rights and legitimate interests of shareholders by improving the procedure for preparing and holding general meetings, by adopting an observation board as a body of management of the company that represents the interests of shareholders, by ensuring that small shareholders can be represented in the monitoring board through the introduction of a cumulative voting procedure, and so on. We hope that this bill, when it comes to the Supreme Council, will also be supported and will make this painful problem much quicker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u26	Rizak Ivan Mihajlovich, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u27	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster. Dear John Yakovich, do you not think that, according to valid legislation in the strategy of overcoming poverty, there is a need for greater attention to be given to the problems of citizens living in mountain settlements?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u28	Thank you. You know that a number of benefits are provided by law for people living in mountain areas. I believe that when we prepare for the second stage of the poverty eradication programme, we will take into account your proposal and we will find an opportunity to put this set of problems into a separate component of the programme, taking into account the specificities of this population category. You did the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u29	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u30	The written question is, "How can the government's position on the establishment of a moratorium on wage increases, subsistence minimums and the level of security, as indicated in the 2003 budget policy project, be explained in terms of poverty reduction?" It is clear that during the preparation of the document, the Ministry of Finance and Government was primarily required to balance the income and expenditure of the State Budget project, which is scheduled to be submitted to the Supreme Council. It's about the minimum of living. I would like to emphasize that its size cannot be frozen because it is determined on the basis of objective things: approved consumption standards, prices for these goods and services today, and levels of inflation. The government has submitted to the Supreme Council a bill that determines the size of the subsistence minimum, based on the projected inflation indexes that were set at the beginning of the year. However, my personal point of view that the Supreme Council, when considering this issue, should obviously take into account the actual level of inflation in this year, because we already have an oversized living minimum because the projected inflation rate is not reached, this figure today does not reflect the actual state of affairs. As far as minimum wage is concerned. I've already put my mind to this. We believe that without an increase in the wage fund, we have no right to increase the minimum wage in the budget area, because the official ratio of the basic categories of workers in the budget sector and technical workers is so disrupted that this can lead to the elimination of institutions that perform certain functions in general. We believe that serious work should also be done in this regard. We need 2.8 billion additional financial resources to restore inter-staff salaries. If these financial resources are found and the wage fund is increased, the government is ready to make proposals for another minimum wage. The government will deal with the issue tomorrow and will finally determine the minimum wage. With regard to the provision of a minimum of living. Again, the question lies in the scope of the government budget. Yeah, 80 bucks is not the best indicator, but that's a lot more than it was before. [[50 to 80 bracelets already raised]] If there is financial resources in the budget, if the income portion allows it to do so, it is likely that there will be an increase in the level of assistance for low - income families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u31	National Deputy Droguncs Sergey Ivanovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u32	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear John Yakovich, indeed, there are some disruptions in the ministry, and you have reported it today, but there is only one important factor in the impact on the people's living standards -- you raise wages, pensions, aids and so forth by 5, 10, 15 percent from time to time. But there's a second lever, prices, and you don't have any effect on it, like, by the way, our expensive government. So everything you do is eaten up by a raging rise in prices, not statistical, but actual. How do you think you can change the situation? For example, take some mediocre economic measures, such as regulation of profitability and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u33	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich, for that question. You've touched on a very important problem. As far as one scale is concerned. I think it's really important, but I would like to emphasize that we have progress in all directions. It's not very significant, not as people would like it to be, and people's deputies, and the government, but moving forward is practically in every direction of the social sphere. As far as prices are concerned. You're doing the right thing. The government comes out first of all to stabilize prices. Obviously, those inflation rates that we have today are average, they're defined by some method of testing. However, they also illustrate that there have been some positive developments here: both lower inflation and even negative inflation. This means that we have managed to settle these issues to some extent. However, this problem remains relevant, especially in the residential sector. There are, indeed, no mechanisms today that can accurately determine the cost of these services, as far as they are concerned. The government is taking appropriate measures, and draft regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are being prepared to ensure that the situation changes for the better, both in this direction and in other directions, where the cost of the poor is particularly heavy, especially in terms of transportation and communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u34	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u35	"How do the poor have access to resources such as property, credit, education, health care, etc.?" In fact, the Concept of Business Dismantling and Privatization, Land, Housing Fund, approved by the Supreme Council, defines that one of the basic principles of privatization is the creation of equal opportunities for all Ukrainian citizens to own production, housing and land as a result of the degradation of land and land. This principle was based on both certification privatization and land dispossessing, the property of former collective agricultural enterprises and housing. I think there's another pressing problem that I've been talking about, protecting the rights of a small shareholder. A person who has a small shareholding or one or two shares does not essentially influence the business. Appropriate legislation should be adopted to help solve this problem. I realize that we have health problems today, but the program I reported is aimed at ensuring the real constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to health care, making it more accessible. You can see how the spending of the state budget changes for these purposes. As far as education is concerned, I've also talked about it. We now have the constitutional right of citizens to secondary education. Small families, for example, have social protection through targeted assistance and through a system of education that supports poor families through food organizations, shelters, and so forth, at prices acceptable to this category of citizens. Although it is clear, there are also serious issues that need to be addressed. It's about loans. This is a very big, problematic question, and I don't think there's any point today that we should stop at it in detail, but I would like to point out that in this direction the government has taken certain steps. Young families are being credited for housing and higher education. Low - income families have the same educational opportunities as those who pay for education at their own expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u36	Artemenko Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u37	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[constituency 77, Zaporezki region]] Please pass the word to Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u38	Alexander Stoyan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u39	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear John Jacobovich! You said the poverty line is 175 bucks. The minimum wage for a working man is 165 dollars. You just said the government won't change the minimum wage. [[And we know that.]] Please tell me: If the minimum wage of almost 3 million working people is lower than the poverty line, how will you cope with poverty among those working? That's the first question. The second question. According to the official data you gave us in 2002, poverty among families with children has spread from 47 to 60 percent. So tell me, how did you get through poverty in the first phase of this population category? And the third question. Government reports everywhere that production is going up, wages are going up, even today you say it's higher than the living minimum. Why, then, is it that, according to your information at the government meeting, in August 17 regions, debt from wages increased in the manufacturing sector. And in 50 percent, they're state-owned enterprises. You're rejecting a man's work beyond poverty. What are you going to do here? It will not bind what you have said with real action. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u40	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, we've had a discussion with you about this for a month, I've had my arguments as a minister, as a representative of the government, and once again I'd like to make a statement in the presence of the people's deputies. If the wage fund in the budget area doesn't go up in proportion to the minimum wage level, we're going to destroy the budget area. We then eliminate schools as centers where children are taught, because we will pay both cleaning women and teachers the same salary. Today we need anything to restore the ratios that were affected by the increase in minimum wage without a corresponding increase in the wage fund. That doesn't mean that teachers, doctors won't get a new salary raise. On the contrary, we do all of this in order for the main category of citizens to get it. The government will have no objection to the increase in the minimum wage provided I repeat that additional resources will be sought in the budget. Perhaps this will be done on July 1, the following year, as it was this year. As for the increase in the number of poor families with children from 47 to 60 percent. Actually, I don't know where that statistics came from. We don't have the first quarter tests, but we haven't published them yet. If there's any source of these figures coming up, I'm willing to discuss this separately, but I think we don't need to discuss this before the official publication of the State Committee's data, because we don't have clear information on this. As far as debt is concerned. I, Your Honor Alexander Mikolaiovich, report at each meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on what is being done to pay off the arrears. You know very well what we've learned from the President's decree, a little over a year from now, to reduce debt in the budget area by more than 2 billion dollars. This is a reality that we have to consider today. In May there was a special situation. I realize that it may not be an excuse, but that explains what happened. You know how many weekends there were in May, how much Ukraine had rested, which was a burden on a farmer. In order to be able to sow, farm, and farm crops, the main financial resources were directed at ensuring that agricultural work was carried out, and to some extent this had a negative impact on the rate of repayment. I can report that the situation has settled in the last two months. In June, debt fell by 74 million dollars, this month, according to operational data, even more than 100 million. We are moving forward as it was supposed, although clearly there are problems, and we need to deal with them together with the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u41	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u42	"What has been done within the framework of the Poverty Reduction Strategy, with the reduction of the shadow economy?" Indeed, the problems of the shadow economy and the development of the social sphere are closely linked. I've talked about this before when I answered the previous question. According to the State Department, once again, the difference between official income and expenditure is 20 billion dollars. I mean, if official middle-hearted incomes were properly put in place under the conditions of childhood, they would be much higher. This means that even legal wages would be much higher, and accordingly they would be much more coming to the Pension Fund, to social insurance funds. These are all interconnected things. "What has been done by the government, in particular the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to carry out pension reform?" We've introduced a personalized bill in the country, which, with the adoption of pension insurance laws, has to carry out its function, which is specifically aimed at the childization of the salary, because it's expected that the pension will be paid in full in terms of the personalized calculation data. If a person receives a salary in the shadows, he will accordingly be deprived of his pension for the future. And we've also proposed and we're now conducting an experiment on the numbering and payment of unemployment benefits in case of accidents in the production of personalized accounting. So that's how we stimulate today's legal wages, and I think with the adoption of laws, it's going to provide very serious opportunities for the childishization of the economy. With regard to a bill to reduce the taxation of the income of natural persons submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers. I do hope you'll support it, because it's really a real opportunity to seriously reduce taxes on wages. In addition, the bill is designed to change the system of credits to the Pension Fund and social insurance funds. Since these contributions are mainly made by employers, it is suggested that some of them be converted into hired workers. We think it's also a serious opportunity for childhood. In addition, we have made tariff proposals, which also entails a slight decrease in the payroll fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u43	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please. And we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u44	Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. Dear John Jacobovich! Can you please tell me if the transfers in the budget are accounted for? They're referring to transfers to the population. That's the first question. Second question. Today, you are very good at telling us that there is a trend toward growth. How do you look at another trend that is increasing in the number of homeless, and the number of patients is increasing? Is this the kind of difference that our nation has set out in political purposes that is depicted in beautiful colors in spite of reality? I understand that this is a political issue, but even today, we are being heard by the whole of Ukraine, and people are hearing you speak. Is this the kind of paradise we have? Do they already feel such a wonderful life? On the contrary, poverty, unemployment, sickness, and the number of children abandoned in infant homes are increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u45	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna, for these questions. I would like to point out that in no statement by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy was there any attempt to embellish the situation, to paint an unrealistic picture, and to show an illusion. The minister only reports what's really going on in the economy. And if I didn't say right now that we're having some positive shifts, I would talk about them, it would mean that we've just crossed out the whole work of society that it's doing to overcome the crisis and get into a more decent life. [[Which, apparently, is not enough.]] That's why I'm stressing that today, despite the circumstances, we have some positive results that do not satisfy both the government and the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, no, of course, the people. The reality, however, must also be taken into account. As for the number of homeless and sick. Today, there are indeed major health problems. They are also part of the family’s politics. Many families do not have the capacity to give birth and provide them properly. In this regard, I reported that last year we raised the level of aid from 50 to 80 dollars. This is a reality, we were able to raise the child’s birth - related help, this is indeed done. And I also called the number of boarding houses that work today, the number of institutions that work with children, the number of trust phones that work around the clock. That is, we have some positive developments today, even though we would like to see more unsolvable problems in this matter than we would like. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u46	Thank you, Ivan Jacobovich. Dear colleagues, for a statement in the report, we give the floor to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and the work of Hari Vasil Georgievovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u47	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! In order to understand the nature of our country's poverty, the reasons behind this shameful phenomenon must be stated as follows. During the years of so-called reforms, there have been fundamental changes in the distribution of the country's income and national wealth among the various sectors of the population. Those who have been in power these years and those who have served power in a thief's way have robbed the people, allocated public property, and have now allocated the lion's share of the work of the entire Ukrainian people. There were no and no objective reasons for depreciating people's work. In 1990-2000, when domestic gross product fell to 40 per cent of wages, its share of GDP fell from 43.3 per cent in 1990 to 16.8 per cent in 2000. There were no objective reasons for the decline in consumption per capita from public consumption funds from 100 per cent in 1990 to 13 per cent in 2000. It is the policy that has led to the fact that, even in the most modest estimates, one third of the population in Ukraine is below the poverty line, with more than half of the population being poor, i.e. almost 1 in 6 in the country - the poverty rate in 2001 was 15 per cent. [[55 per cent]] Not only citizens and families are poor and poor, but entire regions. The highest level of poverty is registered in the Zakarpatsky region, 46.6 per cent in the Crimea, 38.4 in the Hmelnicki district, 36.8 in the Hersonsky region, 36 in Nikolaevsky and Volinsky, 35.5 in the Lugansk region, 33 per cent. [[Think about it!]] Children especially suffer. In the past year, the poverty rate in families with children was 2.5 times higher than that in childless families. Similar data from the country’s deepest disease can be produced indefinitely. Today, it is very important for us all to understand the plight and danger of the situation that Ukraine is in. The meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour highlighted the positive work of the Cabinet of Ministers in the implementation of measures to overcome poverty. And today, Minister Ivan Yakovlevic Sahan has fully reported on the measures taken and the results achieved. But in our Committee's view, unless we make serious adjustments to the priorities of public policy and to the integrated poverty eradication programme, we will not, in the near or far future, overcome the shameful phenomenon of our people's poverty. At the meeting of the Committee, we noted that, firstly, the strategy itself did not contain tasks requiring any significant effort from the State, it called for a reduction of the poverty rate by 5.2 per cent in 10 years at all, from 26.7 per cent in 2000 to 21.5 per cent in 2010. Secondly, the integrated strategy programme does not meet the requirements of the policy document, as: it does not provide financial support for the activities envisaged; the measures envisaged are based on existing programmes and legislation that do not require additional costs; part of the measures are declarative; the programme has not become an economic policy instrument that provides the necessary conditions for social development. Among the many reasons for the strategy's failure, we believe that it is essential to ignore Ukraine's text of the declaration adopted by our country at the 1995 World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen. With our signature under the declaration, we have recognized the primary responsibility of the Government of Ukraine to its people and to the community for creating conditions for action that will: to put people at the forefront of development and to put the economy into service, to integrate the economy and social policies in order to complement each other, to recognize the interdependence of the public and private spheres and, especially, to promote a more equitable distribution of income. Note that seven years ago, our State made a commitment to social policy, which means that a person is at the heart of public policy. Unfortunately, nothing has been done to date. A recent public statement by the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilović Kuchma, is encouraging. In his appeal to Independence Day, he set himself a priority for the next two years: “To do everything possible to move the social problem from a dead point”. [[Think about it!]] Our President went further in addressing the Ukrainian people's deputies on the occasion of the opening of the autumn session, reiterating his understanding of the “relationships between the three whales: economics, social and environmental spheres”, of the transition to a “new paradigm of development that will be at the centre of man, the quality and safety of his life”. “It is not a technological process,” the President stressed, “not an economic efficiency, but a person who has the right to a decent and safe life.” It must be understood that the principle of social justice must now be the cornerstone of public policy in Ukraine, and we will finally begin to implement the constitutional requirement of our State's sociality. Dear colleagues! The political will of the President, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers are primarily needed to address our country's main problem of poverty eradication. The first step, in our view, should be the adoption and implementation of a Supreme Council ruling prepared by the Committees on Social Policy and Labour and on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. That's the first one. Second. We expect the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilović Kuchma, to take concrete decisions to implement the priority of the State's social policy, which he has declared to the Supreme Council. Third. We invite the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the Supreme Council, scientists, to make adjustments to the integrated poverty eradication programme, which will address the challenges facing the State today. We very much hope that the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, on the basis of Ukraine's 2003 State budget, will prove to all the people that their words do not conflict with the case and will make the State budget social - in favour of the poor people of Ukraine. We understand that only if the results of the work of the people of Ukraine are fairly and evenly distributed, especially among the poorest segments of Ukraine, can they have a significant impact on poverty reduction. We believe that a word after the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Supreme Council, I am deeply convinced, will support the efforts of the supreme leaders of our State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u48	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address the issues of pensioners, veterans and invalids, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u49	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today, we are considering an extremely important and extremely painful issue. In view of this, it is surprising that, if not more, the fact that it is reported on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. I believe that should be done as a minimum by the Deputy Prime Minister, with economic issues. The implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy in Ukraine is largely a question of whether there is a future in the most disadvantaged part of the population of Ukraine. And it's not just a strategy anymore, it's a national security issue. That is to say, it is a matter of the utmost responsibility and honesty. It's me who's trying to betray what's wanted for real. Are there positive developments in Ukraine on this path? [[Someone's going to call it a success.]] There are, of course, many testimonies. However, are they so impressive and convincing that they are able to present on the five pages of general information and the shortcomings and outstanding issues on one page, and in the form of a simple list? When I was introduced to the Cabinet of Ministers, I was always catching myself thinking that I wanted to pinch myself, or maybe I was asleep -- is this about Ukraine being told, or is it about some more stable state? The findings are supported by only positive figures for 2001 and the first half of 2002. Meanwhile, the President issued Decree 637, which outlined the Poverty Reduction Strategy in Ukraine on August 15, 2001, just in the middle of that extremely successful year. Obviously, the President just didn't know about our amazing successes, or he wouldn't have issued a similar decree. Having read the information of the Cabinet of Ministers, I would like to propose a draft ruling from one point: the President's decree has been carried out, and the problem has been removed because of its complete and final solution. And in the meantime, it's not that clear. Who and when, by what document, did he define the exact limit of poverty? If the poverty line is set at half the minimum of living, what is the same minimum of living? Even so, 80 percent of pensioners, veterans, and disabled people are far away and sometimes hopelessly far beyond that limit. Who forgot, I'll remind you: the minimum pension in Ukraine is $47.30, minimum payoff is $86.90, maximum pension is $141. I will list the latest officially published data on the categories of citizens of Ukraine in relation to their level of pension insurance on January 1, 2002. Think about it, fellows, which success or even displacement in overcoming poverty can be talked about when about one million citizens, and, to be exact, 853,000,351 persons receive a pension lower than the minimum age; 170,716 persons - minimum pension, 2 million,233,339 persons - minimum pension, 6 million,743,655 persons - from two minimum pensions to three. In other words, more than 9 million pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons are outside this pitiful, frightening, criminal border established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. All attempts by the committee to change the situation are better exposed to the President's veto, the last one was in July 2002. However, too little has been found. The Cabinet of Ministers’ decision on a strategy for replacing social benefits with targeted money is hereby adopted. As far as I'm concerned, it's the mechanism through which they're trying to destroy even the very notion of social protection. In other words, it is an attempt to take away a person who is in the open sea of life’s problems, a life - saving circle that in any way will help to keep on the swim, without it a stone will go down. So I would like to ask the government to reconsider the relevance of this step. A special conversation even in this pitiful background is the problem of people with disabilities. It's the most violent situation here. I understand that not all states are able to decide, but let us do at least what is required by valid legislation, starting with budget assignments and trust funds, because this is very often not even done. Where's the exit? Convinced that if we are really interested in solving the problem of poverty, we are simply obliged from 2003 to initiate the process of bringing the pension to a minimum of living, starting with the disabled of war I and II groups, to move in this way consistently and step-by-step until the problem is fully resolved. [[And I want to hope that that's what the question is.]] And to complete another problem, it's purely organizational. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The two committees of the three that were tasked with preparing this Government Day made two draft decisions regarding the determination of the Cabinet of Ministers' activities: one defined the work as insufficient, the other as unsatisfactory. By the way, it was suggested that we register draft decisions with two possible solutions, but the employees decided that it was up to them to decide which project to register. As a result, a draft decision has been officially registered where the work of the Cabinet of Ministers is not considered sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u50	Thank you. We're going to fix this right now, and you're going to have two drafts for your consideration on Thursday, so that the deputies in the session room will be identified. According to a report from the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on economic policy, the administration of national agriculture, property, and investment, Damien Vladimir Anatoliyovich will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u51	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[Electoral District 184, Hersonian Region]] Respectable leaders of the Supreme Council! Respectable people's deputies, government leaders and guests! The question of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in implementing the Poverty Reduction Strategy is the most acute in the entire social cluster. This is the most sensitive issue, which can be said to be painful in assessing the leadership of the people. The status of Parliament in this situation does not allow for any other approach to assessing this problem, except that it is strictly principled. The Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment considered measures by the Government to overcome poverty in the context of its mandate. It should be noted that even with some economic growth in general, the real social dimension of the economy has not been achieved and the negative trends in poverty have been overcome. More than 13 million people are below the poverty line, more than 23 per cent of Ukrainian families, and rural poverty is much higher than the average. In the Herson region, for example, the poverty rate is 36 per cent, the same in the neighbouring Nikolaev region, and is not record in Ukraine for poverty. Looking at the internal structure, it cannot be overlooked that more than half of the poor are suffering from the most severe form of poverty when the total monthly cost is less than 140 bracelets. [[55 per cent]] Until 1 July this year, we remember that this was one of the main public social guarantees -- minimum wage, let alone 2.5 times less than the subsistence minimum approved for the current year. I would also like to point out that the Cabinet of Ministers cannot define the Poverty Reduction Strategy, there must be a programme. The strategy is determined by the President's decree, the Supreme Council's decree, everything else is a strategy, a plan of action, a concrete action. We have a strategy, even district councils are looking at a strategy, you might want to think about it. All strategies, no one to follow specific plans. In our view, the main failure in the programme is the lack of a rigid economic pillar in overcoming poverty, a financial source. [[I'm talking about the program, not the strategy.]] The main question is, where's the money? There is no clear plan throughout the hierarchy, from the Cabinet of Ministers to the President of the District Government to the City Head, so everyone is considering a strategy. This plan is declarative: it has been set up, accounted for, and everything is fine. There are times when there are specific issues, portfolio fights, post fights. Here's the result, dear colleagues. So everyone is excited today: What will happen on 16 September? The action planned for 16 September was also triggered by work to overcome poverty. We have a lot of these programs, that's how they're done. We must go to the people to all the respected leaders of the country, from the Government to the country, without fear of explaining the difficult issues behind the backs of the forces, and to understand clearly: the opposition is needed in order to find a position with the power in force that will improve the lives of the people and overcome the growing poverty. [[We don't invent a bike here.]] We are wasting time to find out who is the master of the house, and the master of the house is the people, and we, gentlemen, are authorized to work for the benefit of the country and the people. This is the most important strategy for overcoming poverty. If this is understood, there will be concrete plans - what the Government does not have today. Without furthering the analysis, there had been enough discussions, and I will move to concrete conclusions. In our view, the Cabinet of Ministers needs to move to a new level of budget planning, where both poverty and social issues need to be addressed. The Government's programme of activities for 2003-2004 should contain clear mechanisms to develop a strategic plan for poverty eradication, only then can the entire range of government programmes become adequate to the country's economic situation and only then can the integrated poverty reduction strategy be expected to yield positive results. The first steps to improve the situation in this acute economic issue must be taken soon in the planning of the State budget, giving it a greater social focus. We believe that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue today cannot be considered satisfactory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the time spent in the report and the reports has been exhausted, and I ask the National Deputies to sign up for this talk. Please point it on the board. So that we don't waste our time, I give my word to the National Deputy Proscuratov. [[Here's my note.]] Please find out why there is no data on the board. National deputy of Proscuratov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u53	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. Your Honor is presiding! Dear National Deputies! Dear government officials! This is the first time I've spoken in front of such a high-priority audience, so please take my excitement for granted. There may not be an MP in the Chamber, regardless of political orientation, who would oppose overcoming poverty. However, before the adoption of the budget, it is necessary to adopt laws that will contribute to its fulfillment, to the development of the economy in our country. Although the real increase in gross domestic product has increased and has succeeded in overcoming the downward trend in production costs, the problem of timely and full pay in the manufacturing sector, such as coal, construction, and agriculture, has not finally been solved. It is good that with the introduction of a system of compulsory social insurance, a basis has been laid for ensuring the constitutional rights of citizens to social protection against accidents of production and occupational illness, unemployment, and temporary loss of employment. However, there is not enough dramatic shifts in safety and injury in production. As a terrible example, the last accidents on the mines at Lviv Airport. We cannot help but mention the difficult situation in the rural industry. We need investment in land-processing machinery, mini factories and mini-tsks from manufacturing. It is commendable that targeted government assistance has been provided to low - income families, increased level of assistance, the provision of financial assistance, and the development of means of transportation for those with limited physical capacity. However, the employment of the above - mentioned ones requires increased attention. I'm happy to say, as in the last 25-year-old teacher, that the state fully ensures the constitutional standard of full secondary education. This is facilitated by an extensive network of educational institutions of various types, providing free textbooks for school students and PTUs. State funding provides for the maintenance and nutrition of orphans and orphans. Higher education at the expense of the state budget has increased, and the pay-out of teachers has been exceeded. Since September 1, article 57 of the Education Law has been fully implemented, under which there will be increased support for teachers for their internships, a fine guide. Regrettably, however, the wages of the educated do not correspond to the minimum of living. Child care prevention and social rehabilitation are improving, and a network of children’s institutions is expanding. However, as a result of the imperfections of the Tax Code -- the high fee for groups, the section -- does not solve the problem of so-called "children of the street". The implementation of an integrated poverty eradication programme will help improve social security, improve living standards, and stabilize the state’s social situation. And I'm sure that's what's going to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since we've had a breakdown, I've been handed over full numbered applications for the performances, and I'll give them my word accordingly. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich is invited to attend. Prepare for Mihowich's performance, Ivan Ivanovich. You can put it on the board now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u55	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, representatives of the media, are present in the hall! The main benefit of today’s hearing is that for the first time in years of independence, we are discussing the problem of poverty publicly. I will point out that it has been repeatedly violated by the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions during negotiations with the government regarding the conclusion of the General Agreement, so it is not by chance that there are today members of the Presidency of the Federation of Trades, Heads of Central Committees and District Councils of Trades. In recent times, we have often heard about Ukraine's steady GDP growth, the highest in Europe, about high real wage increases, but somehow the average citizens don't feel it. According to the latest sociological survey, only 1 percent of respondents consider themselves secure, but 53 percent regard themselves as poor and 13 percent as poor. This total impoverishment of the vast majority of the population and the incredibly rapid enrichment of a bunch of "new Ukrainians" testify to one thing: the state has turned its back on the common people and has actually lost its influence on the regulation of social processes. This is confirmed by the words of the President from a letter to the Supreme Council, quoted by my colleague Hara. And once again, the President said, "I've set a priority for myself for the next two years -- to do everything possible to move from the dead point of solving social problems." According to the President, only in the next two years will there be something to do with his involvement in solving social problems, and all ten years of independence were at a dead end. So it wasn't by chance that "the greatest acquisition" in the social sphere over the years was the emergence of the poor and the very poor. The government even introduced this "scientific concept" -- the depth of poverty -- which is a pit from which a significant category of citizens can no longer emerge. True, there is hope that with the completion of the stages, poverty in our rich country is going to fall from 27 percent to 21 percent. [[And this, you heard, by the end of 2010]] So the government has set itself the prospect of working for the next ten years. I'm not going to repeat the numbers that characterize poverty in Ukraine, they've been called in both the reports and the reports, but I want to stop on some social parameters. Today, legislation defines basic social guarantees for citizens at the minimum cost of living, 342 dollars, but the real size of these guarantees does not even reach the poverty line. Remember, the poverty line is 175 dollars; the minimum pension is 86.9 bracelets (i.e., the absolute majority of pensioners in Ukraine -- beyond poverty, unemployment assistance -- 74 bracelets (all people who have become unemployed -- outside poverty), the untaxed minimum -- up to 17 dollars. Today we've heard that the government doesn't want to consider a new level of minimum wage, and 165 dollars is millions of people working outside the poverty line. In July alone, debt from wages in the manufacturing sector continued to rise by almost one billion. Moreover, one in five workers, I emphasize, did not receive a salary. So what must we do to overcome poverty? We believe that we must first adopt the Government's Programme of Action for at least a medium term period. Secondly, when considering the budget, we need to get out of those social parameters and standards that already exist and attach them to the subsistence minimum. Thirdly, respectable colleagues, the most vulnerable are families with children. We need to review the extent of State aid to families with children and raise it to a level that is not lower than that of poverty. The Federation of Trades has worked, sent it to the Committee on Social Policy and Work, and they define specific measures that will help to overcome poverty. Please support the proposals made by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u56	Thank you. National MP Mihovich, Communist faction. He will be followed by the National Deputy of Zvigilski, "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u57	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Stabbing. Honorable members of the government, fellow MPs, are invited! The problem under discussion today is a scientific testimonial of the total injustice of workers who have been deprived of the most essential to a decent life. It is frightening and painful that Ukraine is in such a disgraceful position that we find ourselves in our cities and villages every day. The particularly intolerable situation in Zakarpat is that our own self-poverty country is the first place in the country. This disaster covers, according to apparently underreported official figures, nearly half of the population in the area is 46.6 percent. There is no such thing in Prikarpata, not to mention eastern or central regions. In particular, we are plagued by the inhabitants of the highlands and undershepherds, flood victims, many children’s families, and veterans of the work. Mass unemployment, malnutrition, pestilences, alcoholism, discouragement, and despair have become a severe reality. People do not understand why this has happened, since in Hungary and Slovakia, capitalism is also being restored, but there has not been annihilation from the recent socialist past. The causes of poverty are known: the subversive destruction of the domestic economy, its tinning, antinational social policies, the greed of the oligarchs, and cancer. Today's conversation is archival, but it's not new and it's pretty formal. The obvious desire to explain the problem is that it is not the first year we have considered it. There are no real positive changes in the labour market, the full employment of the population remains only a virtual prospect, and attempts to shift the burden of social assistance into local self - government and the poor themselves are underway. To confirm this, we will give such facts. The real level of unemployment is falsified, and only those who turn to employment centers have no basic protection for millions of workers. Today, government projects are planning another money -- to refer to the economically active population of those who run agriculture. Therefore, there is a great need to make adjustments to a number of legislative acts. Literally thesis on some other aspects of the program. First. Many families have received no subsidies and no assistance since the fourth quarter of last year. The other one. Internal migrants are needed for social protection, including carpathians in all areas, farming, and so forth. Third. Something has to be done with workers who have only been in production for years and who don't actually work. Four. For beggars and lumpenized persons, it is appropriate to create accommodations, social adaptation houses, and not to reduce the funding of the government’s local centres. Fifth. Ethical groups need special attention, which are experiencing a very painful deterioration in their situation. To find out the true extent of poverty, more solid scientific research is needed and a deeper study of the standard of living. [[Collection, Cumulative Sample]] What is urgent is the need to train professionals for the social work of the modern type. In fact, partial measures will not do anything. Poverty in Ukraine can only be overcome by radical socialist change, and people are ready for it, as they will say on September 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I ask you to follow the rules. Please, Yuhim Leonidovich. Prepare the National Deputy of Frost Anatoly, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u59	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[constituency 43, Donetsk Region]] Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The task of the President's decree to reduce the scope and address the acute manifestations of poverty would be more comprehensive if, at the end of the first phase and in the development of the second and third stages, the criticisms and proposals made today, including the factions of the “Region of Ukraine”, were taken into account. First. Neither the strategy nor the programme takes into account such a powerful factor in combating poverty as the full deterrence of unjustified price increases for essential goods. Its inclusion could be possible, for example, through increased taxes on excess prices, the declaration of price increases on monopolies and services, and promotion of healthy competition. Unwarranted price increases eat up efforts to increase welfare and reduce poverty. Second. There is a need for a worldwide audit of housing, prices and tariffs for utilities, heat, water, electricity, gas, communications, transportation and so on. Further, there is a need for continuous monitoring of their validity in a uniform manner. At the same time, conditions should be created for the development of competition in other areas, whose services constitute a significant part of the budgets of most poor families. Third. In caring for future pensioners, we need to keep in mind the current pensioners. Pensions for the old age of persons who have left their jobs before 1993 are often lower in the same period than those who have left a similar position or work in recent years. The methodology for the accrual of pensions for pensioners of past periods should be clarified in the light of changes in the purchasing power of money and other circumstances. Fourth. Most non-working retirees, persons with disabilities, other low-income incomes above pensions and benefits are usually small. The failure to tax an untaxed minimum in the reform of the income tax of individuals, some suggest, will lead to a reduction in the budgets of poor families. This is unacceptable! The tax-free minimum needs to be maintained. Moreover, we believe that benefits to the poor through enterprises of non-State forms of property within the poverty line should not be taxed at all on income. Fifth. One factor in maintaining high and uneven levels of unemployment across regions is the lack of a free market for cheap housing. Its establishment should be based on local regional programme budgets. The attachment to housing makes it difficult to find work, and it does not reduce unemployment and poverty. Many coal regions have already encountered this in the closure of mines. Paid education severely narrows access to education for children from poor families, especially the prestigious one. The “Currency Contest” should be limited, minimum admission quotas set for paid training in the course of a competition for knowledge at a very low price set by the uniform rules. And in conclusion. No programme has produced results outside the economy. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction believes that regional poverty eradication programmes should become an integral part of regional socio-economic development plans; they should be developed under the auspices of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Single Methodology, taking into account the positive experience of the Donetsk region. The follow-up to the strategy should be justified by economic calculations and included in the programme with funds and expected results. And more. In order to be more objective, poverty indicators should be calculated on the income of households, taking into account the salary paid for tax deductions, such a scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u60	People's MP Anatoly Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. To prepare for the people's deputy Kalinchuk, Ukrainian Agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u61	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 83, Zaporezki region]] Dear colleagues! Dear members of the government! It's very nice and very good that, in the end, our government and our President realized that Ukraine, which has recently been a prosperous state in the world, has turned into a beggar, and today, finally, by recognizing it, we are coming to the discussion and adoption of the Poverty Reduction Strategy. I was asked by the Zaporez County Council deputies to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers information on the situation in the area of financing certain social protection programmes, namely housing subsidies and aid to war veterans, as well as the acquisition of energy carriers, the preparation of a material base for housing and utilities for continuous operation during the autumn period. Due to the absence of donor funds in Ukraine, there is no possibility to provide for the fallout period of solid, liquid, spent fuel and compressed gas and to sell it to the population, including the pollen categories. On September 4, 2002, only 17.1 million dollars were added to the budget, less than 7.8 million dollars. In total, as of September 1, 2001, the debt of benefits and subsidies to the population for the above-mentioned goods and services totalled 10.7 million. I think that's the situation in other areas. There is little funding for local income and subsidies for heat supplies from other types of fuel, other than natural gas, due to the absence of closed accounting systems. Debt from this type of resource increases every month, underfunding of the specified type of expenditure leads to almost complete termination of some enterprises. Moreover, according to the government, the lack of subsidies for some social protection programs in 2002 will amount to 59.6 million dollars. Therefore, Zaporezsky District Council deputies are asking the government, in particular the Minister of Finance, to fund 7.8 million dollars in full during September-June, according to the receipt of the payment of solid fuel and other utility services for 7.8 million dollars, the payment of 0.1 million dollars of heating services, to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to decide on the increase in the amount of 2002 foreign subsidies to 59.6 million dollars, including the repayment of the debt and subsidies to the population for solid, liquid, hot domestic fuel. Dear colleagues! Sometimes some political forces blame the fact that on September 16th there will be a political action called "Resurrection, Ukraine!" I think we don't have to blame anyone, we have to pay a lot of attention to the fact that this is the people that have reached the extreme limit, if we can say so conditionally, it will come out on September 16th and it will say everything that he thinks about the government today, and about us, the deputies, and about the President of Ukraine. [[And he's probably already below that limit.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u62	National Deputy Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich, faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Prepare the national deputy of Goshovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u63	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. [[constituency 144, Odessa Region]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Clothing, the Ukrainian Agrarians faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear members of the government! Dear colleagues and present! I would like to point out objectively that in the direction of implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy, some work has been done, as discussed in the Minister’s report and the government’s material, but this is only a small fraction of what needs to be done, including at the legislative level. First, the State is obliged to assume full responsibility for the decent standard of living of those citizens who cannot or cannot afford a minimum of living, namely children and pensioners. The working population should have a job and a paid salary at the right time, and for this to continue to increase the efficiency of the economy, create new jobs, introduce new technologies where wages would be valued at a higher level. Secondly, in addition to increasing the amount of labour costs in the cost of production, there is also a significant role to play in reducing the tax burden. Today, out of every 100 dollars, 33.5 percent are immediately calculated, and out of the 76 dollars left over, 15 dollars will be calculated when buying goods or paying for utilities, electricity, heat, water. So 50 percent of what you're making is actually getting rid of it. In agriculture for one hectare of leased land, the tenant receives about 120 dollars, of which up to 20 percent is required to pay the income tax. I want to emphasize that this is done in accordance with the laws that we adopt in this session hall. Thirdly, some say that social protection agencies sometimes encourage the spread of unemployment in rural areas by paying some aid to farmers in the event of unemployment. But can they provide themselves and their close agricultural workers if they get 60-80 dollars a month, and it's not a good time? [[By the way, the low-average wage sector is about 153 dollars, which is 2 times less than the national average, and 3 times lower than in industry.]] There is no unemployment in high - paying villages. I believe it is necessary to enact as soon as possible a law establishing for employees an hourly minimum wage for businesses and organizations of all forms of property and criminal responsibility for non-compliance with the law. Four. Addressing poverty is a big socio-economic issue, and it applies, as has already been emphasized here, not only to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but to virtually every government office. The failure to comply with the village’s social development laws was a heavy burden on the peasant’s shoulders, and the Ministry of Economics, and the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Transport, other government authorities. Yes, the gasification of the house in the village has to be paid from 1.5 to 2.5 thousand dollars. Where can our pensioners, the veterans of the Great Homeland War, take them? That's why, in my opinion, during the consideration of such important issues that cover a wide range of government activities, with all due respect for ministers and for Ivan Jacobovich in particular, they should report to the vice-presidents, who tend to lead the coordination councils and the government committees at the Cabinet of Ministers. And the last. I find the Government's proposals to implement the Poverty Alleviation Strategy, to accelerate consideration and adoption by the Supreme Council of a number of legislative acts. This issue with specific mandates should be reflected in the Supreme Council’s ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u64	National deputy Goszovsky Vladimir Sergiyyovich is invited to speak. Prepare the national deputy of Solomatin. Please follow the rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u65	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[constituency 173, Kharkiv region]] Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Members of the sitting! In this room, no one will be surprised by the singing of mythical sirens about the gains in the social field, the habit of injecting them. And there's no need to rush the spikes of a sharp metaphor. All branches of government have been accurately diagnosed: total poverty in Ukraine. And so our task is not to specify the percentages of positive shifts, they really do have at some point, but to answer the question, what do we do? And this need is compounded by the declared Euro-Integration Course in the State and by the rapid global processes. In this context, I want to remind you that there are two groups of poverty: the social and the group of poverty in the literal sense of that word. [[In industrialized countries]] [[In Developing Countries]] The global standard of absolute poverty is the cost of living at a minimum of one and a half dollars a day. And in Ukraine, there are 33 dollars a month for one third of the population. Here's the answer where we belong in global processes. So today it is time to shape, not eclecticism, but social awareness policies to overcome poverty. And this is a stable, real middle class. What do we have besides a declaration? Do we have at least a serious program of all branches of government for middle class formation? Or do we have serious scientific developments on this issue? Or is it possible that we have at least one party among the great variety of parties that is really a middle class party? No! No! So we only have 10 percent of all of our citizens living by the criteria that fit the middle class. Today, a serious legal framework in the context of solving this problem is our first priority. It doesn't matter which one of us is working in which group or faction. Before the final adoption of any law, there should be expertise and only on one condition -- how this law will affect the formation of the middle class. That is why when we introduce a draft Law on Compulsory Pensions or Medical Insurance into this room, we must first adopt the Law on Social Free Medical Care. This is true of other laws. Because it's not a secret that false insurance schemes like MMM are being prepared today. And these schemes can't stand either a pensioner or an engineer or a farmer or a military officer or a civil servant or 30 percent of our young people who are unemployed today or millions of our citizens who are forced to look for a lot of bread abroad. And this is all the potential middle class. The situation, when poverty increases by one and a half percent in the state, can be changed. This is the only way to move from a declaration to an action. And that's why the People's Choice Group, realizing that most of the population of Ukraine is a potential middle class, is going to be the kind of force in Parliament that will defend its interests. That's why we're paying normal taxes for normal prices, tariffs, for reliable information, for professional lobbying in Parliament. That's why we're safe from a state, oligarchic, criminal racket. I'm sure we'll find some accomplices in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u67	It is the interests of the middle class that make us live, not on political grounds, but on politics. I thank the People's Choice Group for having us speak on Government Day on this very issue, and I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u68	The national deputy Solomonine gives the word Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u69	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! As we look at this issue, we must conclude today that the current state of the economy and state finances is such that with all the so-called increase in production, the average citizen will not soon feel any rise in the standard of living. With 11 years of independence in the euphoria of the people, the authorities have virtually destroyed the economic foundation for solving the acute social problems. At the same time, a new class, the poverty class, was formed. The president himself had to admit it. According to the State Tax Administration, in 2000, about 60 people were declared in the year 2000 and 100 more in the year 2001 — one and a half times as many. At the same time, one out of every nine citizens in Ukraine felt that they were poor. The question is, Why, then, does the government, including the law enforcement authorities, not see such violent injustice in our society? 1 out of every 4 Ukrainian citizens feels fear of the future, 1 out of 5 feels hopeless and unable to improve their lives on their own. Social problems were particularly acute in the private sector of the economy, which is developing under unwritten laws of wild capitalism. Thousands of skilled workers, engineering workers, science workers, cultures that have been thrown out of their factories, factories, institutions, forced to work for their masters for 10 to 12 hours, getting a meager amount of money for their slave work. At the same time, they actually have no right to a paid vacation or to a paid hospital or to a less secure old age. And if you add to this a chronic late payment of salary, a lack of monetary income indexation, and much more, we can conclude with you today that the problem of poverty is getting even more acute every year. In doing so, adjustment mechanisms are constantly being developed, primarily by increasing housing and transportation tariffs, telephone, heating, and electricity. Surprisingly, debt for residential services is steadily increasing, and today it is almost 7.6 billion dollars. The proportion of the poor with income of 172 bracelets per month per adult is 13.6 million citizens. The problem of poverty has become a dangerous trend at the level of national security and has created a whole range of social problems. One is the loss of a skilled labor force. Today, nearly a third of our fellow countrymen are seriously concerned that they are not prepared to protect the Fatherland but are willing only to leave the Fatherland. The other one. One of the manifestations of poverty is the flow of intelligence, and we know that it's also a threat to us. Third. Poverty has exacerbated one of the most important social problems — housing. A third of the country’s population is under unsatisfactory conditions. Four. Poverty has created an unprecedented increase in occupational diseases, tuberculosis, AIDS, hepatitis, alcoholism, and much more. To the profound belief of the Communist faction, the total poverty of the population is a tragedy for our people. Unfortunately, we have to say that today the problem of poverty in Ukraine has reached such a limit that it is practically a threat. This is the ruling of the regime and the politics it carries out. There's something to say, something to improve, something to offer, but the problem stands out and we need to talk about it. We need to change both the system of power and the economic model of development. Thus, the faction of Communists calls for the indignant, robbed, and humiliated people of Ukraine to leave on September 16 on the street and square of cities and villages to uphold their constitutional right to a decent standard of living. It could be the most effective tool to fight this poverty, this poverty that we face every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Since we are running out of time for speeches, but the procedure insists on the national MP Taran, let us listen and be determined. National MP Taran, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u71	Aolo's subcommittee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights, national minorities and inter-national relations. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The point is that this is a very important issue today, and not so much time has been spent, and a number of factions have not been able to come forward and light up their position here. So I would very much ask you, given that there are government members present here, and this, you know, is not always possible, please continue the meeting for at least 15 minutes, because some factions just couldn't make it. 15 minutes to go on now, and there won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, will there be any objections? The point is that we have nine other national deputies on the stand. Even if we take a break or resume meetings for 15 minutes, everyone won't speak. If there's no objection, let's work for another 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, one minute. In accordance with the regular procedure, we have the national MPs speaking, evidently we should have offered them immediately from the committees. Let's do it this way: there will be those who insist, and then there will be opportunity to speak in the second question, to put these two issues together and speak. National deputy Udovenko Hennady Josephovich of the Committee on Human Rights will speak. Prepare the national MP, Taran. We'll take 15 minutes as agreed. No, not by shortening the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u73	Aolo's Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Alok Victor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The question that we have raised today on Government Day is not just relevant, it is key to our state. To continue to retreat, the level of poverty is that it is time to consider the threat of national security. After all, the problem of poverty needs to be addressed in the complex. Poverty is the inaccessibility of treatment, from this low life expectancy, social illness, and in Ukraine an epidemic of tuberculosis. Unemployment is the outflow of labor abroad. We don't know how long it's been since we've been abroad -- five or seven million -- and soon we'll have no one to listen to our speeches here at all. Immigration from Ukraine, childless carelessness, fatherless children, low birth rates, and the threat to the population’s demographic security. Those who worked 20-40 years went through a war that went beyond survival. Today, poverty comes from all over the world. Poverty is one of the main causes of mine accidents, accidents in the Armed Forces. If people weren't poor, they wouldn't have gone to the mines. Why is there nothing like this in Western Europe, why is this only happening in Ukraine? According to the pseudo-optimistic figures contained in government materials, the daily poverty of most of our citizens, for whom the day begins and ends with the question of how to survive? I was struck by the term used by the government -- the depth of poverty. From whether it's deep poverty, whether it's hopeless or it's shallow, it's a sad optimism that the depth of poverty has dropped by 4 percent compared to 2001. As head of the Human Rights Committee, I want to look at the problem of combating poverty because of the principle of constitutional rights at a sufficient standard of living. According to a recent survey conducted by Razumkov, 91 percent of respondents are convinced that in Ukraine the right to a sufficient standard of living is not guaranteed, as is the right to work and the right to earn a living, the right to health. In the President's welcome speech to the people on the occasion of the 11th anniversary of independence, the fight against poverty among other problems was put first. The president took this issue under personal responsibility, but it has been almost a year since the implementation of the Poverty Alleviation Strategy. So the measures taken by the government did not produce tangible results, did not ensure respect for the constitutional rights of citizens in the social sphere. To change the situation for the better, it takes a high - quality breakthrough, and it takes money to provide social assistance. We have to answer this question: Where do we get the money? The efforts of the authorities must be geared towards the development of entrepreneurship, agriculture, the promotion of small and medium -sized businesses, not their destruction. A colleague of Goszowski just spoke about this. Without the formation of the middle class, Ukraine will remain one of the poorest countries in Europe. In this situation, it is difficult to talk about stability and steady development. Poverty must be tackled through economic growth, the fight against economic crime, the childization of the economy. This requires political will and concerted action by all branches of government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! The national deputy Taran of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, will be speaking. Then there is to be a national deputy, Volintz, but he hands over the right to speak to the national MP of the Frost. He will be followed by a Polish national deputy, and at this we will conclude the discussion. Once again, I would like to say to you, the honourable colleagues who accuse me: read carefully the position on Ukrainian Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Julia Timoshenko's block. Ukraine today is truly poor, stolen. Today, pensioners die in endless queues of savings to get 50 dollars of their savings stolen. Today, 76 percent of the population do not have basic treatments, war veterans do not have money for their own funerals, and today, poor Ukrainians are sold abroad and traded by their authorities. Every year, according to the level of human development that the United Nations defines, Ukraine is sliding downwards, making us fewer than half a million each year. Oh, yeah! Today, about 200 people in Ukraine own 86 percent of their national acquisitions. [[oligarchs]] What Is the Ground for Poverty? The ground for poverty is a criminal conglomerate of power, clans, reprisals, and the media. The ground for poverty is total lawlessness, not only the antinational internal one, but also the foreign policy of the state, when the authorities are trading in Ukraine’s national wealth just for their own preservation. Thus, in order to gain Russia’s support in the fight against the opposition, the authorities are ready to hand over the Ukrainian gas transport system to Russia. It's the billions that won't come into the budget, it's the new poverty, it's the absolute destruction of the economy, although it seems to be going nowhere. Ukraine’s economic potential in the years of Leonidas Kuchma has been destroyed by 70 percent. By comparison, during the last war, it was destroyed by 40 percent. The Supreme Council has repeatedly tried to change the situation. For example, the Supreme Council has considered some 15 bills for the return of savings. The president vetoed. If, according to the President, the MPs are so weak that they can't propose a real bailout law, he can offer it on his own. But neither the government nor the President, and they are subject to the law of the legislative initiative, have ever introduced draft laws on the issue of return of savings. So the legislative way to fight poverty is a good way, but in Ukraine, it's not enough. Under Ukraine’s conditions, we must first and foremost determine what the total poverty of the nation is called. And they have their name, the Kuchma regime. And that's why fighting poverty is the fight against the Kuchma regime. We urge all concerned to join the September 16 protest, which will become a real, not a butaphoric fight against poverty. We call on this day at 3 p.m. to go to the European Square in Kiev, on the street and on the grounds of all our stolen Ukraine, and say, "We don't want to be beggars anymore, and we don't want to go until Kuchma goes." And only by overcoming this regime will we overcome poverty in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u76	National Deputy Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare the National Deputy of Polishchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u77	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Even if you listen to the figures given by Minister John Sahan, they do not correspond in any way to the size of the problem. The evidence of that is both statistics, and the testimony of thousands and thousands of citizens at the meetings that we had during and after the elections, at the meetings of the campaign "Rise, Ukraine!".. The figures given by the minister are obviously used and the amounts that are defined by the budget as transfers to the population. But as we analyzed last year's budget implementation, we pointed out that less than 7 percent of the 4 billion dollars of this money will be spent on living money. The rest went through a variety of intermediaries on conditions that all of us know as man - beatings and as examples of various financial instruments. At any rate, these amounts cannot be taken to account for the increase in human well - being. We don't have a trend in economics, so social growth. Gross indicators do not reveal the substance of unacceptable distortions between the expert component of GDP and the internal market. And we know that Ukraine is increasingly losing economic sovereignty. And the average numbers don't give the residents much, say, Kirovgrad, Ternopolish, or Zitomirsk. This is in Zaporozhye, where metallurgy is concentrated, or in Kiev, where financial flows collide, you can see more or less stable wage payments, and slightly better averages. And most regions don't have a reverse trend. The increase in the cost of living in Ukraine is far ahead of nominal and actual population growth. In other words, the trend toward poverty is preserved and exacerbated. The failure to pay helped children, price pressures, volunteerism, more specifically, the thieving base of prices and tariffs in the communal sphere, transportation and communication, in medicine and education, does not allow people to live. By saving himself from the calamities that can, he seeks salvation abroad, in building roads, in quarrying, in ministering to other people’s interests in all forms, even in degrading, disgraceful, and immoral ways. I know what I'm talking about because I've seen our countrymen many times abroad. It is estimated that some six million Ukrainians work abroad. They don't ask for good. This truth is above government calculations, and the political assessment of this fact is that it's a catastrophe. All the reason for the organization of life, in the system of power, in the incredible corruption of government, in the orientation of power, not in the interests of man, but in the interests of the Mafia, the clans, in particular, in the interests of the thief. That is why meetings in Chernigov, Žitomir, Raven, Lutsk, Zaporozhye, and other cities with opposition leaders are dullly silenced by the media because they are under the control of the authorities. That's why people themselves find the answer to the question by chanting in one voice, "The power to change! Get the fuck out of here!".. I'm saying that people say that honestly. We need to listen to them. I also support the proposal to participate in the September 16 protest. And the new authorities, the controlling people, will need capable technologies, experts. Consider this, Ivan Jacobovich, I am addressing the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u78	National MP Polishchuk, Health Committee Please, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u79	Aolo's Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[election district 214, Kiev]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear members of the government! Dear colleagues! We've listened to the average wage here, we've looked closely at these graphs, and we've seen the pay rise. But I would like to address you on behalf of the medical staff. These schedules for health workers have absolutely nothing to do with them. The average wage is 200 dollars, which is below the standard of living, and as of September 1st, the salaries of health workers have become 48 percent lower than the salaries of educational staff. Think about it! Dear members of the government! Think of who we are preparing, who you will treat. I realize that many today can go abroad. But doctors do not have the motivation to raise their levels. It is not available because we need to make money on bread, so we need to think about how to survive. Everyone in the village does farming: they have pigs, cows. In the city they think of where to fake, where there is no time to read, where there is no place to trim. I was at the clinic this morning at 7:00 this morning, and I said to my colleague, "Are you sure you want to go home after you stop, eat?" He says, "I don't care what you eat." You see, we've put medicine and medicine beyond poverty. In the next year's budget, we're allocating even less of VAT than it was this year, but these costs, according to the Court of Auditors, are being misused. Why so? Medical care, which is most needed by people, is the worst thing that is financed. And health care is the worst thing that is financed. Today, I'd like to say that we can get help from abroad, but there are still urgent help, acute cases. That's 40 percent of the medical care. Ladies and gentlemen! All of us, if there is an emergency, a severe illness, we will be treated where we are to be taken. [[We have money or we don't have money.]] We can't choose. And we'll be in the same room we're in. I'd like to say, in closing. To this day, the patience of the medical community is exhausted. We received many telegrams and letters from the medical community and were ready to speak today. And believe me, they'll come out! It'll be a strike that won't even match the miners! Believe it! Know that medicine is a great force. On July 11, the Supreme Council decided to increase the salaries of health workers by 25 percent. I went to the government, and the government says to me, "Let them take it, we don't have the money." Excuse me, is there a way for the taxpayers to raise their wages? Customs have a place to raise wages? Is there another one? And their average salary isn't 200 bucks, it's 500 to 700 bucks! I'd like to say from this rostrum that the medical staff are ready for today, and I think they're about to take a stand against the poverty and the situation that the government has put in medicine in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u80	Thank you. Please proceed with the procedure. Turn on the microphone. National MP Kravchenko, Communist faction. We're about to finish, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u81	Deputy Aolo Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Because there were a lot of people who wanted to. That's not my picture. I'll take another line.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u82	It's Chickanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u83	There are many outstanding issues that have not been addressed today. There is a request: Those who insist on making a statement on the second question are automatically included in the list of speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u84	We're practically out of this list. People’s deputies Volinec, Nikolainka, gave their word to Alexander Frost. Tomich, Feldman, and Dashutin remain. We agreed, 15 minutes. Time, dear colleagues, is running out. Two words as a reply is given to John Jacobovich, and we're going to take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u85	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! Actually, I didn't have to expect a simple conversation today, because the problem is extremely acute, extremely topical. What has taken place, indeed, an interesting discussion, and what has been discussed not only with criticism but also with specific suggestions, shows that we have the opportunity to make serious progress in bringing together both the Supreme Council and the government in this regard. Just a few things that I can't ignore. If the statement says that in July we increased by one billion in debt from wages, I think it was just a mistake because it wasn't there and it couldn't have been. When it comes to other issues related to the deterioration of the situation, this is not entirely true either. I would like to point out that the government is dissatisfied with the summation of this work. Clearly, we need more, faster, and more dynamic solutions to the problems of poverty, but these are not problems for one day. Let me remind you that the program was approved in December. In six months, such problems could not and could not be solved. So I encourage all of you to work together and thank you for the constructive suggestions that will be taken into account during the process of action towards the second phase of the Poverty Alleviation Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The decision will be taken in accordance with the Rules on Thursday. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u87	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. We turn to the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of State policy on the implementation of Ukraine's laws on the natural and cultural heritage and on the protection of cultural heritage and on the compliance of officials with the requirements of current legislation regarding the National Hortician Reserve and other historical and cultural reserves and natural-commanding funds. Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine Sergey Ivanovich Kurikin is invited to the presentation. Sergey Ivanovich, I would ask that you reduce the time of the speech so that we have more time to answer questions and discuss them. If you don't mind, I'll be there in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u88	Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources has the primary responsibility for implementing Ukraine's legislation on the natural and natural resources fund, and is carrying out its activities in the field of conservation, in line with Ukraine's main policies in the field of environmental protection, the use of natural resources and environmental security, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision of 5 March 1998, also to implement Ukraine's Law on the natural and natural resources fund of Ukraine, other legislative acts in the field of environmental protection. Within the Ministry, there is a special government authority in the field of conservation - the State Security Service, which, within its competence, manages the territories and sites of the natural reserve fund, provides and prepares proposals from the main policies of the State regarding the organization, protection and effective use of the territories and sites of the natural reserve fund, ensures the establishment of a national cadastral of territories and objects, international cooperation in this field and the coordination of scientific activities. The State Department of Conservation and Natural Resources organizes, coordinates, and coordinates work on the creation of new and expanding areas of existing natural resources. The creation of objects is carried out through the implementation of state-wide programs - the National Environmental Health Programme of the Dniper Basin and the improvement of drinking water quality, the National Environmental Network of Ukraine 2000-2015, and compliance with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation. Since the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Natural Command Fund for the Ministry, 26 decrees have been adopted by the President of Ukraine regarding the reservation of territories and the creation of new natural-commanding funds. [[declaration]] Three draft presidential decrees on the creation of new national natural parks in Chernigiv, Kharkiv and IvanoFrankiv areas are currently being negotiated. The priority of creating such objects is related to their multifunctional purpose, combining both environmental improvements and the promotion of the continued development of regions through additional job creation, recreation, services, and national industries. In total, Ukraine’s natural-inventory fund, as of January 1, 2002 has 7,010 territories and 2 million objects, 557.8 thousand hectares, representing 4.2 percent of Ukraine’s territory. Since 1992, i.e. in the last ten years, the area of the natural reserve has nearly doubled, mainly by reference to the new categories of natural and biological reserves, national and regional landscape parks. The establishment of a public-government natural-intelligence fund funded by the general government budget fund is under the supervision of various ministries and offices. Of the 33 such institutions, 14 are subordinated to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Of the four biosphere reserves, one is subordinated to the Ministry, two are subordinated to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, one is the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Of the 17 natural reserves, four are subordinated to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources, six to the State University of Education and Science, three to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, one to the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, one to the Ministry of Education and Science, one to the National University of the Name of Shevchenka, one to the State Department of Affairs. Of the 12 national natural parks, nine are subordinated to the ministry. Ukraine's national environmental network for 2000-2015 provides for the expansion and enhancement of the representation of the natural reserve as the main structural element of the national economy and its area in general up to 10 per cent of the territory of the State. Such high levels of conservation cannot be achieved without the support of authorities in places that currently do not support, regrettably, the conduct of a safeguard in the area of the transformation of security obligations during the issuance of State acts to the right of use of land, the establishment of site boundaries, the acceptance of land users and the establishment of natural and natural resources in their territories. In addition, some negative examples of opposition to local self - control may be cited. One such example is the national park of Golosiev in Kiev, which has passed through a series of convergences for ten years and has not been created to date. Because of the disagreement of the Village Council of the Hasty region of Zacarpathia, the territory of the National Natural Park "Sinevera" is delayed. Not implemented by President of Ukraine's decree to reserve valuable natural areas for the next commandment in the part of the creation of the Order of the Islands in the Bahamas region of Chernigiv because of the refusal of the head of the Red Star company in the Omacha Rural Council. Such facts are contrary to the requirements of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act and the Ukrainian Red Book Act, which oblige local authorities to take the necessary measures to ensure the protection of rare and endangered species of plants and animals. [[Article 11]] The territories and objects of the natural reserve are the center of biodiversity conservation, especially rare and endangered species of plants and animals listed in the Red Book of Ukraine, lists of international environmental conventions. The great natural value of natural resources allows them to gain international recognition, such as UNESCO's biosphere reserves, the wetlands of international importance, the areas of special preservation of the so-called Emerald Network of Europe. Cooperation in the development of natural-intelligence and with neighbouring countries is being stepped up. This involves, in particular, the creation of transboundary environmental areas and ecological corridors. Ukrainian nature conservation sites have already become part of the Ukrainian-Romanian Biosphere Reserve of Delta Danube and the Ukrainian-Polish-Slovak Biosphere Reserve of the Eastern Carpathians, the Lower Danube Green Corridor, with the participation of Ukraine, Romania, Moldova and Bulgaria. At the turn of the creation of the Ukrainian-Polish Biosphere Reserve "West Polissia", which is already nominated for UNESCO, and the Ukrainian-Russian Biosphere Reserve "Branian and Starowood Forests". One of the conditions for carrying out the tasks ahead of the reserve is the setting-up and maintenance of the State cadastral territories and sites of the natural-command fund for the purpose of assessing the composition and prospects of the fund, assessing the status of the territories and objects within it, organizing their protection and efficient use, planning scientific research, and providing public authorities interested in enterprises, institutions and organizations with relevant information to address social economic development issues. A draft cadastral documentation package is currently being prepared, an automated cadastre system is being developed, a database is being created, and natural complexes of areas and natural-instructory funds are being inventoryd to obtain information about their current state. At the same time, there are a number of issues that hinder the development of the reserve. In particular, often protected objects not properly identified in land-use documents and in accordance with the Earth Code are not transferred to the "land of the natural-preservation fund", the boundaries of conservation objects are not transferred in kind, which entails violations of environmental legislation, the degradation of land and other purposeless use of land. There is often a change in the numbering of the quarterly network and the size of the areas of the protected objects without forming these changes in the established law of order. Some institutions of the natural-invention fund do not have State acts on the right to use the land on a permanent basis. As an example, the Yaltic Forest Reserve, the Ravensky, Miss Martian Reserve and some others, which greatly complicates the work of the State Protection Service in the preservation of natural complexes and contributes to land violations. An example is the territory of the Nikita Botanical Garden, a separate zoo. Land - rearranging authorities do not provide information on the availability of conservation facilities and land use restrictions on land users in their territories when redesigning the right to use land. This causes considerable difficulty in reshaping security obligations. In order to improve the protection of areas and sites of the natural-indictment fund and to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Natural-Indictment Fund Act, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted the Ordinance on the Service of the State Protection of the Ukrainian Natural-Inventory Fund of 14 July 2000, 1127. However, in order to ensure its effective functioning, it is necessary to amend article 255 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences in the shortest possible time periods, which provides for the right of officials of natural law enforcement agencies to establish protocols for administrative offences. I want to point out that this bill is under consideration by the Supreme Council. I would like to ask the national deputies to promote it as soon as possible. In addition, it is necessary to adopt amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund in the area of the creation of a vertical management of the nature conservation service. In addition, such changes should and should also be aimed at zoning natural resources from the moment they were created. It should be noted that, at present, the most common violations in the areas of the Ukrainian natural-invention fund are, first, violations of the territorial protection regime -- illegal tree sections, hunting for wild animals, hayhairing, grazing of livestock, harvesting of wild fruits, mushrooms, berries, etc.; violations of fire safety requirements; and unregulated recreational loads. In total, 1,772 violations of conservation legislation were detected in 2001 within the framework of the natural reserve fund and 1,022 people were called to account. As a result of the work of the National Conservation Service of the Natural Reserve in 2001, the government budget received $30,000 million in fines for violations of environmental legislation and damages of $1 million in fines. In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Supreme Council for putting the matter in order of the day. The question needs a comprehensive approach, not only to the continuous interaction of interested central executives, who are subordinated to the natural resources, but also to the close cooperation of executive and legislative authorities. I would also like to point out that the issue of increasing and improving the quality of the state of the natural reserve is particularly important in the light of the decisions made by the Johannesburg World Summit for Permanent Development, since it is impossible to implement the principles of sustainable development without improving the state of natural resources. Thank you for your attention. I finished my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Sergey Ivanovich, do you have any written questions? Please answer the letter. And I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to sign up for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u90	I will answer the written questions in the order in which they come. The question came from the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster: "What changes to Ukraine's legislation should be made in the near future so that the institutions of the natural reserve function effectively?" In part, I answered that question by addressing some of the legislative acts. I would also like to point out that it is very important to adopt as soon as possible a package of amendments to the existing legislation that are triggered by Ukraine’s accession to the Aarhus Convention. In addition, it is appropriate to join the Council of Europe Convention on Landscapes. It is also necessary to amend the existing legal framework in order to ensure an expansion of the scope of the payment service fund. So we could remove the burden from the State Budget core fund and contribute to improving the financing of natural resources, which is important today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u91	National MP of Kosovo, faction of our Ukraine. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u92	aolo by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Alok Victor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Sergey Ivanovich! It is well - known that today’s consequences of the catastrophes that are taking place in the world and in Ukraine as well are the unthinkable effects of volunteering. In particular, we reap the consequences of past droughts, of melioration. We are now reaping the consequences of total deforestation, especially in the immediate you and your Zacarpathian faction. Please tell me, do you have any suggestions regarding the elimination of those consequences, and can you now, especially in the Carpathians, offer something to prevent the calamities that have fallen upon this beautiful land of ours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. I would answer him that way. The causes of natural phenomena cannot be summed up solely for farming activities in certain areas. We need to ask a lot more questions. Today, mankind has faced the challenge of global climate change, and it is the global climate change that will lead to the major disasters that Ukraine and the countries of Europe and other continents have experienced today. Clearly, the factors you're talking about -- both drying up areas and deforestation -- make things very difficult, worse and worse. If I were to talk about ways to prevent negative trends, I would first point out what I was talking about in my speech. By 2015, it's planned to expand the area of conservation to 10 percent of the nation's total territory, and that's the only way we can secure significant areas from this, let's say, environmentally incorrect use. As far as Carpathian is concerned, I would like to point out that the Carpathians are at the border of several states. International efforts are needed. And it is in the context of providing such an effort by Ukraine, particularly our ministry, that a project called the Carpathian Convention is proposed. This project has already been developed. I was able to negotiate with the ministers of the countries in the region. They agree with the idea of organizing such a convention. I hope it will be signed during the Kiev Conference of Environment Ministers, which will take place in May next year. This is going to be one of the very important and effective international legal instruments for ensuring ecosystem stability in the Carpathians and preventing or preventing those negative phenomena that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u94	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u95	The second question also came from the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy. It reads, "Is there a problem of unauthorized land grabbing in the natural reserve?" I have to admit that there is such a problem, and the solution is to ensure that acts are established on the ground, that areas and sites of the natural-indicative fund are placed within limits for land-use plans and that these boundaries are put into place, which are complicated by insufficient funding, again and again, and that they are properly carried out by the officials of the local executive authorities, the prosecutor's office and the State Department. These problems are also fully related to important conservation areas, such as water protection zones, including coastal protection strips, which, as a result of numerous unauthorized land captures, also have a particularly severe negative impact, especially on water objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u96	National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u97	It's a faction of socialists. Dear Sergey Ivanovich! In 1993, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to grant the status of the National Hortica Reserve. In 1995, the Regional Department of the State Property Fund in Zaporozhye Region issued orders for the privatization of sociocultural objects, for the private ownership of land. I think you've read carefully the materials of the Court of Auditors that were prepared for the commission of a special commission on privatization. What did the Cabinet of Ministers, your ministry, in particular, do today's illegal decisions on land allocation, why wasn't this raised earlier, why wait for the question of what is being done in this national reserve to become so acute on Government Day? Why was there no reaction earlier? Was it necessary to await the decision of the Supreme Council on Government Day rather than to prejudge the dissolution of such a national reserve? Today, this does not apply only to one of these objects. Many objects had a similar situation. [[I think I'm going to say it.]] What is done by the Ministry in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u98	I can answer that. You're asking why it wasn't done before? I think it's better late than never. Really? And the fact that the government is actively involved in this issue today is a sign of an understanding of the importance of this problem. And the fact that the Supreme Council has drawn the Government's attention to this issue, I think, is one of the important elements and directions of the Supreme Council's work. With regard to the activities of our ministry, if we are faced with any violations of legislation relating to the natural-intelligence fund or when we are informed of such cases, we are definitely carrying out checks and, if there are grounds, passing the material to the prosecutor's office. With regard to the last steps of our ministry related to the Hortica Reserve, we have made changes to the Position on the Global Geological Order of the Dniprovi Thresholds, which is also located in Horticia, to view it as part of the entire reserve. I think that this complex approach to preservation of both natural and cultural heritage is absolutely justified. I think this will allow for a qualitative change in the situation in the near future. I should also point out that not long ago, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Seminoženko, had a special meeting with the participation of representatives of all interested institutions, with the participation of representatives of local executive authorities, where a detailed analysis of the situation had been carried out and steps had been taken to correct it. I think the government will soon be able to report that the situation has changed dramatically.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u99	Thank you. A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u100	The question came from the Committee on Culture and Spirituality: "What does the Government plan to do to address problems such as inadequate security and territorial arrangements, which, inter alia, contribute to smuggling in the Luhana Nature Reserve: inadequate organization of reliable fire protection measures; low level of transport and fuel security, which is particularly noticeable; lack of means of communication, signalling, surveillance and navigation equipment?" I must point out that these shortcomings are primarily due to a lack of funding. And when I suggested, particularly as a tool to solve this problem of expanding the number of payment services to be provided by the natural resources, I meant raising funds just to solve these problems. With regard to smuggling in the Luhana Nature Reserve, such information was not available to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. If there are any documentary confirmations of such cases, we will respond accordingly within our jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u101	National MP Toločko Petrovich, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u102	aol's subcommittee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on science and education. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] Dear Sergey Ivanovich! I have two questions for you. First. You may recall that a few years ago, we had a problem with Trachtemirovsky’s private landscape park, which seems to have been arranged under the hand of the reverend Bakai. There were a number of problems with that park. I would like you to answer: What is his condition today? I took my time and asked the state to take care of this landscape park. Did he remain private, or did he change his status? That's the first question. And the second question. There is a beautiful land called the Bouquet Guard in the South Bug River in Santa Claus. There are beautiful landscapes, beautiful nature, good monuments to history, and culture. Today, in connection with the design of Alexander’s watershed, it is planned to sink the land, and in the meantime it has been declared a natural park. What is the situation with this question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u103	Thank you. As far as Trachtemirov is concerned, I'll give you the information I have. The Tritemirirov Regional Landscape Park was established in the Kyiv and Cherkas regions on the basis of the relevant decisions of the two district councils. According to the provision of this reserve, the stockholders' association of the closed type "Agrarian Ecological Union of the Tritemirs" is carried out. In doing so, it should be noted that the land included in the park was not expelled to landowners and land users. The main beneficiaries are the Rzisztowsk State, the State Forest Farm "Kyivlis Union" and the Canow State. The Agrarian-Ecological Union of the Trotheimers is a user of hunting grounds in the area and is engaged in agricultural activities. That's the information I own right now. And if you agree, I'm willing to consider your request as a parliamentary request and provide you with more detailed information in the near future, to conduct a proper verification of compliance with the requirements of the natural-indictment fund. With regard to the construction of Alexander’s watershed, it was carried out within the framework of the construction of the Tashir’s GAES. Today, this is the case. A decision has been taken by the government to provide for the entry into force of the first, second, third, energy - cloud system. So, the first line of the Tastylist GAES goes into action without raising the water level, I want to emphasize this in particular. With regard to the fourth, fifth, sixth, power grids, according to the Cabinet of Ministers’ decision, the issue of their entry into service will be resolved separately and must be taken into account in environmental monitoring.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The time allocated for the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources’ report is exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u106	The minister of culture and art, Yuri Petrovich Bogicki, is invited to report on this issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u107	Minister of Culture and Arts of Ukraine. Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Distinguished People's Deputies! The most honored are the guests! First of all, let me, on behalf of the Government of Ukraine, thank you very much for your attention to one of the most important issues of the spiritual existence of our society, the problems of protecting and preserving our cultural heritage. This is evident from today’s Government Day, and the important legislative acts approved by the Supreme Council. According to the number of monuments and the availability of masterpieces of European and world importance, Ukraine belongs to one of the richest countries in the world. At the same time, it bears great responsibility to European and world society for the fate of these objects. Today, there are some 9 million museum monuments and nearly 130,000 fixed monuments in Ukraine. Last year alone, 659 cultural objects and complexes have been added by the government to the State Register of Real Estate Monuments. In all, there are about 500 museums in Ukraine, 61 public and municipal reserves. For nearly ten years, memory - protection agencies have worked on the basis of past experience and legislation of still Soviet times. The management of the cultural heritage was divided between the two branches of Minculture and the State. In June 2000, the Supreme Council adopted the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, and since then there has been a system of work in this area — the creation of a clear system, a network of memory - protection bodies of executive authorities, and the involvement of advisory and advisory bodies of public organizations and their representatives. Within two years, the relevant decrees of the President of Ukraine, 19 government regulations, have been adopted to ensure effective control of the state of storage. A list of all these documents are in the reference material that you have been given. Since January 1, this year, the salaries of employees of national reserves and museums have increased by 1.8 times. The government recently approved a comprehensive program for the passporting of cultural heritage objects for 2003-2010. The Mincultures have prepared a package of instruments for ratification by Ukraine of the Convention for the Protection of Undersea Cultural Heritage. To implement article 3 of the law, the government formed the State Cultural Heritage Ministry as a government authority in the form of a Minculture. More than 20 units have been allocated for her recently. Up until now, there were only five units in the state ministry. During the Minculture Days, the government was approved by the project "The Model Position for the Management of the Cultural Heritage of Regional, Kyiv and Sevastopol City Administrations". Thus, it can be noted that the first important step in the implementation of the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, namely, the organization of the State System of Remembrance Authorities, is being carried out. The implementation of State policy on protection of cultural heritage is carried out by the Ministry of Culture and Art in close cooperation with many ministries, departments, local executives and local governments, the National Academy of Sciences, social organizations such as the Ukrainian Association for the Protection of History and Culture Monuments, the All - Ukrainian Association of Foreigners, other social associations, funds of general interest and local importance. Taking this opportunity, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the employees of these organizations and institutions, as well as to the national deputies, especially from the committee of profile, for their indifference to the protection of national cultural acquisition. We hope for their continued support. Regrettably, there are numerous violations of existing legislation in addition to a positive moment in the memorial service. They are due primarily to imperfect legal documentation on the identification of storage sites, construction within security zones, destruction of memory owing to the lack of funds for their maintenance and restoration. In recent times, unauthorized construction works have been carried out even in the security zones of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska, the National Kyiv-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve, in the historic centres of the towns of Lviv, Chernigov and others. Since the entry into force of the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act, more than 600 prescriptions have been made by the relevant authorities on the scene, 58 have been brought to criminal liability, and some 20,000 fines have been reimbursed. A weak material base, a lack of funding for security services and museums, has led to numerous thefts. In the last three years, the thefts of 1,342 museum objects in Vinnitsky, IvanoFrankovsky, Kharkivsky, Sumskia, Zaporziski, Lvivsky, Poltavian. In Montenegro alone, during the past year, seven thefts resulted in the loss of 409 museum objects, accounting for 30 percent of the total loss. Low problems arise in the interaction of the Reserve Directorates with local self-government authorities in the issuance of land privatization acts. With reference to the Law on Local Self - Government, local authorities transfer to the private property of the land a historic cultural assignment or leave the right to dispose of it in violation of protective legislation. As a result, as of today, there is only one reserve in Ukraine that has a fully formed State Act on Earth. Regrettably, until now the records of the nonstate part of the Ukrainian Museum Fund, which are stored in private collections, churches, other religious buildings, and have no necessary protection, have not yet been taken into account. These problems also apply to the Hortic National Reserve, a situation around which needs to be discussed separately. The reserve area includes the island of Horticia, adjacent rocks and islands — just 2,000 acres [387 ha]. The Minculture and Zaporozhi District Administration approved the concept of the development of this reserve, and a master plan for its development is being developed. In the area of the reserve today, there are 35 land - use units, which include 44 facilities, including seven sanatoriums, two hotels, two educational establishments, three pump stations, three cemeteries, and a major challenge to the operation of this reserve on the island of ten villages, where there are about one and a half thousand inhabitants. With the support of the Zaporez Observatories, a conservation service and a nature conservation department have been established. A restricted Mesquikonom has decided to maintain the conservation regime in the reserve area. The process of reconciliation between the Reserve Administration and the Zaporozhye City Council of the Landowner’s Act is now under way. In July of this year, Ukraine’s National Hortica Reserve was audited for the purpose of using the funds of Ukraine’s national budget allocated to the Hortica National Reserve for the period 2000 - first half of 2002. No significant violations of current legislation have been detected in this regard. No documents have been found to support the privatization of the reserve land by other users. With the aim of creating the historical and cultural complex Zaporozka Sich, a package of documents has been drawn up to take away the land under its construction, agreed with the relevant services of Zaporozhya on the design of the project. On September 4 - 5, a traveling session was held in Zaporozhye, with the participation of national deputies, district and city leaders, scientists, representatives of local public organizations, the media, the Ministry of Culture. The meeting discussed projects for the construction of the historic cultural complex Zaporozka Sich, a bridge crossing, and made serious warnings about the preservation of the surrounding natural and historical cultural environment. As far as the concept of the development of the reserve is concerned, it is generally understood here. Dear National Deputies! Of course, my presentation today is merely a speculative description of the problems that arise in this important matter. They are an important factor in the formation of a united national patriotic idea of civil society. The government is continuing its work on improving current legislation from the organizational and financial provision of this area. These include the introduction of amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Criminal Code, the State Budget Act for 2003 in part of the increase in expenditure on the maintenance of reserves and museums, the provision of a separate code of expenditure for the economic classification of "security services", the introduction of a license for registration activities not only for organizations but also for individual professionals, the completion by the end of the year of the formation of the system of authorized cultural heritage authorities and their material and technical security, the resolution with local self-government bodies of issues concerning the acquisition of State acts for the permanent use of land. In general, the government aims to develop a national programme for the development and use of cultural heritage and to submit it to the Supreme Council in 2003. And the last. In doing so, we need to keep in mind that we have the same zeal for the material part of our inheritance, and the immaterial part of it. This has recently been rightly addressed by UNESCO by the development of a draft of an appropriate convention. I think this might be the subject of the next parliamentary hearings on culture. I believe that in cooperation with all who are concerned about the spiritual development of Ukrainian society, all the problems will be solved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the reporter. That's what we're taking 15 minutes to do. If there are written questions, please answer the first. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u109	The first written question is, "What steps are being taken by the government to prevent the spoiling of cultural values through illegal archaeological excavations? The People's Authority MP, Mr. Bespali's authorized group." The government’s decree approves the procedure for issuing permits, including archaeological excavations and other appropriate works. In order to prevent the theft of cultural values, the Ministry of Culture and the National Academy of Sciences at the Institute of Archaeology have developed and approved a joint order. Now this instruction is in the Ministry of Justice on registration and approval. So order is this: an institution that issues an open letter, already on the basis of this open letter, the Ministry of Culture gives permission. [[This is the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Sciences.]] In such close cooperation, we work, and there is also an advisory exchange. The most important thing is to monitor such excavations. Because often, they're not qualified, they're not being preserved properly. So we're with the Institute of Archaeology, and once a network of cultural heritage agencies is created, we're going to set up this work, along with local self-government agencies. Because often-hungry and other objects suffer from agricultural work. The problem is, but together with the National Academy of Sciences, we are trying to solve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u110	Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u111	Member of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Yuri Petrovich! I'd like to ask you this. We visited Horticia and saw that there was total disregard for those normative acts that were adopted in Horticia and in general in the security zones. Do you think the Cabinet of Ministers or your ministry has any importance in forcing the authorities to enforce the laws and regulations adopted in Horticia?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u112	Thank you for asking, Leukka Grigorovitch. Remember, during our visit to Zaporozhye, we exchanged thoughts on this subject. The fact is that there is no such open violation of existing legislation. No landowner, no building permit. But I agree with you, and then we discussed these issues as to what these actions are: someone built a garage in these villages, someone built a room for themselves. To all these facts, the Reserve Administration and the Ministry of Culture are responding, and regulations are given. But the Ministry of Culture and the Reserve don't have valid legal priorities. Many of the violations that have been revealed to us and to the security authorities have involved administrative matters that are handled by the public prosecutor’s office and the law and order, as it should be. But in my speech, I said that we should add to the Criminal Code to prevent such violations and severely punish them for every violation. We will take effective action from each fact revealed to you and by the Preservation Department. I promise you that because this is a direct matter of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u113	Yuri Petrovich, please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u114	"What violations of current legislation relating to cultural heritage are the most characteristic in Ukraine? Special Commission on Privatization, Head of Semenyuk Commission." An appropriate analysis of these violations is carried out by cultural and heritage authorities. The most characteristic of architecture and construction is the imperfect regulatory framework mentioned earlier, and the absence of approved sites of memory protection. For this reason, there is a government mandate, and we work with the relevant organizations. By September 30, a position on the definition of security zones around a specific reserve will be developed. There will be a manual and a position that will determine the principles of approach, but in each particular case, starting with the National Reserves, which the Ministry of Culture and other departments are subordinated to 12 will be determined as soon as possible, by September 30, these security zones. Unsanctioned construction within security zones, destruction of monuments as a result of the lack of funds for their maintenance and restoration, and, as has been said, unqualified restoration. Unsanctioned excavations are a monument to archaeology. These are excavations that are carried out without the permission of Minculture, the National Academy of Sciences, and looting. Failure to comply with the rules of conservation of the surveyed monument; privatization of lands where the monuments are located or where they are returned to certain farms or private structures. The destruction of the monuments from agricultural work, especially tractor oracles. Most of the monuments of archaeology are located outside populated areas that complicate their protection both by local law enforcement authorities and by local cultural authorities. For the monuments of history, memorial buildings, monumental art are the most characteristic flaws, the theft of fragments of monuments, and memory boards made of colored metals. Recently, two figures of lions were stolen from the Snakes Reserve. Fortunately, the originals made of marble are in the reserve funds and the plaster seals are stolen. But still, the fact of the theft remains a fact, and that leads to imperfect protection. These facts lead to criminal cases and cases of administrative misconduct. For example, 13 criminal cases have been committed in the Kyrovograd region, one person has been held liable, damages have been compensated; in the Mikolaiiv region, six persons have been prosecuted for criminal liability, one offender has been sentenced to two years in prison, and damages have been incurred for 30,000 dollars; in the Odessa region, five users have been removed in court, 534 claims have been issued regarding the removal of violations, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u115	Yuri Petrovich may not need to list these examples. This indicates that it is already a system. Clearly, systematic measures must be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u116	Thank you for your observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u117	Alexander Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u118	Your Honor Yuri Petrovich, do you know that I returned yesterday from Zaporozhye, and I can testify that the local authority of the commission that you led is making a mockery. Alex's closed-circuit television studio showed this: there are some underprivileged people, almost alcoholics, and they want something like that there. And the subtext is, unless we need someone to manage our wealth, we can decide for ourselves what we need. And they decide. I've been to Horticia, and I know where it's going. And these are all of the projects to get investors out of the area, they're going to do something. You can see why they need these areas and what it will be like to be a charity. This will result in the loss of Ukraine’s national heritage. So, of course, the money has to be spent on building a bridge or crossing, and Horticia has to be a Hortician. The system's not working today. Note that in the Sinaitic, Rahab National Reserves at Zakarpata, sawmills are shaped like wood after a barrel, and in fact, they cut fresh lines, melt, and tear down slopes. Trypilla is privatized, and this is the wealth of Ukraine, whose history spans about seven thousand years! Sophia Kyivska -- what's going on here, there's no words at all! We need a system. I think it's a reflection of our power, seek change, or else there will be trouble.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u119	Thank you. Questions as an instruction, Alexandre Alexandrovich. Indeed, there is a question on the part of the local authorities, and our structure is not yet sufficiently created. I told you that in the Ministry of Culture there was a government of five, which is still in operation. We're trying to fix this system. An additional 20 units have now been allocated. The funding will be open from January 1st of next year. We're trying to do all of this. In the last two years, a legal framework has been developed to create and operate this system.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u120	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u121	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[electoral district 79, Zaporezki region]] The fraction of the SDPO(s). Yuri Petrovich, everyone in Horticia, knows the state of affairs on the island. And one bitter insult is this, for probably there is no national reserve in any country. The first question is, did the Ministry of Culture, together with the Minecores, refer to government notes on financing the problems of the island of Hortica? And secondly, I couldn't give him Sergio Ivanovich. How could we have broken this vicious system of environmental payments when they're all 100 percent going downtown and then they're not coming back, we could have solved a lot of problems on our own -- both in Zaporozhye and in Donetsk. So I want to develop the opinion of Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz: we need to change the system of legislative approaches to these issues that cause such concern to us. So talk about financing the solution to the problems of the island of Hortica.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u122	Thank you for asking. There's a program for the development of the Hortic National Reserve by 2005, but funding is very unsatisfactory. To date, however, only 52 percent of the funds have been allocated for the implementation of this program. But I would like to emphasize that we need to work together with the national MPs, the Zaporozhye authorities and the area to speed up the adoption of the watershed as quickly as possible. During our meetings in Zaporozhye, we found full understanding between the district administration’s management and the city’s management. And as for the media comments on this, it's a shame if they were like Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich said. But the Ministry of Culture and Government is committed to ensuring that the land survey of the island of Hortica is fully carried out, according to the decree of the President of Ukraine. There are thoughts that, he said, let us give the objects that are now, delete, and give back to the reserve what is left. There can't be such a tight Hortician. Horticia has to be whole. And I, as a minister here, rely on your people's deputies to help you in the city council to think about the integrity of the reserve. Then the reserve for the support of the district government and the city council will be able to develop investment activities. Such activity cannot be started at this time because the earth is not ours, the objects are not ours. The commander will be able to make his own deal with a specific user, with a specific owner of the buildings. Then, when the system is built, investments can be involved. You can't talk about it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u123	One last question. National MP Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u124	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence. [[constituency 203, Cherniewec region]] I have a question for both the Cabinet of Ministers and the distinguished reporter Yuri Petrovich. Every year, hasids who come to worship the shrines of Umani, an element of the Ukrainian cultural heritage, visit Ukraine. This raises questions. Who of the officials of Mintransu Ukraine granted permission to fly hasids from Israel to Ukraine by Turkish aircraft under Ukrainian flag, while aircraft of the state airline "Ukrainian Airlines" and its employees are taking care of them, demanding wages and jobs. Plus, the boeings have planes from the International Airlines of Ukraine and the Aeroworld. Who received the money for such actions? I'd like to give you a specific answer, if you're not ready right now, so that the Cabinet of Ministers will give me a written answer on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u125	Thank you for asking. I'm the only one who can say that we're going to study this question, and I'm going to report it to you at the government's disposal, because it's not within our jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u126	Yuri Petrovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u127	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich and honourable deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u128	I think we're going to make an appropriate request for your question, Deputy Manchulenko, and we're going to send it to the Cabinet of Ministers, because I don't think it's within the competence of the Minister of Culture. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, John Alexanderovich the Rabbit. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, if you please, five minutes. Up to seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u129	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Mr. Head, I'm asking for a little more time, because today we're still demonstrating the residual principle of environmental problems. Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! As a result of the work done, the committee reached such conclusions on the implementation of State policy in part of the conservation and development of the natural reserve fund, as well as the enforcement of legislation in this area. The committee assessed the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as insufficient. The government's efforts were not enough to ensure the gradual development of the reserve business and to create an effective system of monitoring the enforcement of effective legislation by all natural conservation funds by structures. In recent times, not only has the solution to many of the chronic problems slowed down, but there have also been new and extremely disturbing trends in destructive character. This happened because the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the authorities on the scene, had sharply weakened attention to environmental issues. To this day, the government is operating without an approved program of its activities. The administrative reform is aimed at creating a full Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, which would regulate the entire natural resource complex of nadr, water, land, forests, in fact, is submerged. In fact, it can be said that the process of return started at the starting point when only inspection activity was the main function of the ministry. Another example that illustrates the government’s lack of attention to conservation activities is the systematic failure to carry out budgetary assignments in this area. The level of funding of the natural-intelligence fund does not exceed 50 percent of the need. Budget assignments are not being carried out. I'm just going to name a few figures that show the dynamics of financing the mineral resources at the expense of the state budget general fund. If budget allocations were made by 62 percent in 1999, 98 percent in 2000, but again in 2001 funding fell to 84 percent and in the current year to 83 percent. Failure to carry out budgetary assignments in itself is a failure to carry out the current legislation on the natural reserve. The committee therefore pays special attention to the government’s improper financing of this vital sector. The government needs to know that increasing funding is not just about implementing legislation, it's about creating conditions for natural equilibrium, it's about creating a lot of new jobs. There is also a very low level of implementation of state programmes approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the National Environmental Networking Programme 2000-2002, four new national natural parks were to be created. The deadlines are completed, and there are no appropriate decisions on these objects. The same is true of other government programs, such as the National Environmental Health Programme of the Dniper Basin and the Predictive Development Programme in Ukraine. A few more words about negative trends that do not have an adequate response from government and government in general. Here, first of all, you need to draw your attention, the distinguished people's deputies, to large-scale construction, especially individual housing. This construction extends to all new and new land areas, covering not only extremely valuable in the natural-regulatory plan of the land, but also the active areas of the natural-regulatory fund. The public beats the alarm that destroys the rudders of small and large rivers because of the overexploitation of sand from them for building purposes. The valleys of rivers, native meadows, beavers, and coastal protection strips are being destroyed, including in the Black Sea and in the Azova Seas. There are no specific examples to follow. It takes about 30 miles [30 km] down the Dnieper to see what is said. Visit Trachtemirov, Nikita Botanical Garden, Miss Martian Nature Reserve, Sinever National Natural Park and many others. When you see these disadvantages, you will feel that you cannot continue to live like this. Today, crazy money opens all the doors. Prior to their pressure, all the locks of existing environmental legislation are broken. So we need to step up the responsibility and the regulatory role of power, create new, tougher than we have now, restrictive legislative mechanisms, ensure truly reliable protection of natural-intelligence funds. It is hard to imagine what will be done with the unique natural landscapes, with the environment at large, when the building of new bases of recreation, sanatoriums, other recreational and healing facilities on the banks of rivers, lakes, seas, if we leave the present attitude of authority to all levels of conservation. What steps does the Committee propose to take to remedy the situation? First. The government must finally implement the ideaology of sustainable development, which foresees an equivalent weight of environmental, social, and economic imperatives. The other one. The government is obliged to continue administrative reform in order to create an adequate form of state management of natural resources, natural resources, and natural resources. In order to do so, it is necessary to transmit to the Minecores all regulatory functions in the area of conservation, use and reproduction of the entire natural resource package — land, water, forests, and nadr, which are now distributed between many ministries and departments. The Government and the Supreme Council have to solve the problem of unwarranted dispersion of natural resources among a large number of users as soon as possible. The Committee supports the proposals regarding the subordination of all biosphere and natural reserves, national natural parks, and so forth, of Minecores, such as the State Reserve Service. Third. In the 2003 State Budget, the government is expected to expand the funding of natural-intelligence objects and fully implement all budgetary assignments. The scope of funding should correspond to the status of natural reserve institutions, which is now practically out of the question. For example, let's take the Biosphere Reserve of Ascania Nova. On August 19, 2002, it was decided to grant the AscaniNova Zoo the status of national acquisition. But real funding does not strengthen this status. Four. The Minister’s office should be organized in such a way that the natural reserve cadastres are created in a year. All objects of the natural reserve are to be identified in a manner marked by appropriate security zones. The administrations of the natural reserve have the shortest time to obtain State acts on land ownership. This work takes a rudely long time from year to year. For its sake, some national MPs have proposed to change the legislative order for the reconciliation and removal of land and other natural objects for the purpose of carrying out the conservation work. Fifth. The government should make a reservation to the land for further reservation. The Committee believes that a new ideology should be produced in this activity, especially in view of the process of land privatization. Six. The government should increase its attention to the proper conduct of environmental experts in many industrial, transport and other projects. Inconsequential and incomprehensible is the government’s policy regarding the construction of the Tascis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u130	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u131	As a result, the natural-intelligence facility "Granite Steppe Pobrzeża" will be flooded. It causes concern and efforts to implement the project of the Ministry of Transport by building the DanubeDnipro canal through the protective core of the Danube Biosphere Reserve. I want to draw your attention to the Hortic National Reserve as well, to construction projects where the natural component is not included. I'll draw your attention to that. I also draw your attention to the need to look in the direction of the Canov Nature Reserve, especially at facilities related to the activities of the Bilachovsky Academy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u132	Ivan Alexandrovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u133	And the last. This is a reference to the draft decision. Mistakes took place there. Therefore, the bill on the National Environmental Fund should be submitted by 1 July 2002. I think we're going to be listening to these questions in December to really produce an effective programme of activities in this area. Support our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm pointing out that you're taking up time to discuss, and we don't have much time. The words for the report are given to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Les Stepanovich Tanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u135	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The national movement of Ukraine. Dear society, in the absence of time, because the five minutes spent on this issue are of course a mockery of solving the problem of cultural heritage, I ask that you attach my letter of appeal to all the deputies, to the transcript of our meeting. Journalists can get to know him. Similarly, I would ask journalists to study the legal, organizational, and financial security situation presented by the Court of Auditors and the two draft decrees prepared by our Committee of Environmental Affairs and the draft Suhogo and Pecklusenko rulings. These are all serious materials that need study. We went to Horticia and saw what was happening there today. A number of field meetings were held in Kachanovka and in Lutsk. In particular, on September 3 - 4, Horticia was visited by eight members of the Supreme Council. As a result of the work of our committee on the protection of cultural heritage objects, outgoing meetings, we can conclude that the state of state policy is unsatisfactory in this area, a state of disaster, unsatisfying, and all ten years of Ukraine has shrunk. You can't put up with this and say that it's the Ministry that's guilty, it's today's state policy, a policy of mancourism about its own history. There is an effort to privatize the land of historical and cultural preserves, and there is illegal construction in their territory, including even the Sofia of Kiev, Kiev, and illegal excavations, explorations, other land works, recorded cases of theft and sale of cultural and spiritual values for hundreds of millions of dollars. National heritage is irreparably damaged. Local government administrations and local authorities, usually referring to the lack of funds in the budget, have taken the stand of idle observers and often participants in the destruction and destruction of national shrines. But the problem isn't at cost. During the past ten years, nearly all highly qualified experts, capable and willing to do so, have been removed from memory protection. Instead, the people of today came -- the new Russians, the Ukrainians, where the one-minute benefit is above strategic priorities and tasks. Of course, it can't go on like this, we have to vote on all of our decisions and create a system of special authorized cultural heritage protection bodies, pass them on the Restoration Base of the State so that they can do something, create a system of cultural heritage protection. The committee proposes that the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine do so, not the Ministry of Culture. The cost of protecting cultural monuments must be taken to Minculture and transferred to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Now it's not going to be an hour's pay, but it's not going to be a restorative activity, it's not even going to be a matter of money. The necessary inventory of museum funds needs to be monitored for the destruction of monuments passed on to religious communities, and it is also a major problem today that we have handed over all the temples to religious communities, and they are creating a fine that is, there are very big problems. But what I'm saying is that there's a positive point in the public raising the voice, there's a Hortica defense committee that's turned into an all-Ukrainian committee. Of course, the city is needed, and Horticia is needed, and we need to unify these interests, but who would have the idea of running a central highway through Kyiv Sofia? Horticia is the only reserve, the only island in all of Europe, absolutely unique. He never got lucky: Catherine destroyed Sitch -- passed it on to the German mennonites, her countrymen. [[Remember Shevchenk, "German planted potatoes"?]] They took Horticia down. The Mennonite Germans cut off all the hortic oaks and emigrated to Canada. Then we hit Hortica with Dniproges, then we hit it during the war, when many valuable objects were blown up. Finally, they hit Horticia by neglecting it, allowing the opening of restaurants and private beaches. It's all a violation of the law. We want to support the Parisian authorities' request to allocate 7.2 million dollars to Horticia and 1.5 million dollars to save the Cossack Oak. But if we prolong 1.8 billion dollars per city, can this local enthusiasm not find the cost of building Horticia? When you see the destruction of Olvia, all of our cultural reserves, it becomes clear that we are mancures. Remember, an anecdote: Dad and his son walk past the monument of Bogdan the Hmelnick, and the little boy asks, "Daddy, what is this?" "Well, there used to be a Ukrainian tribe here, that's their leader." I would not like to be spoken of in this spirit by the MPs. I would very much like to be referred to in the word "The Hortician" as a good, silent word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u136	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the privatization of Seminouk Valentina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, let us consult. We need to finish this question. Maybe it would be your good will. We'd take 20 minutes to talk, take a little break, and then take a break? Thank you for your support. Please, Valentino Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u137	Dear voters, colleagues, representatives of the media! Prior to the approval of the government's day-to-day agenda, the Socialist Party, our committee asked about violations of legislation and the non-protection of reserves. We've talked about systemic violations, privatization that's not just happening in Horticia. At our request, the Chamber of Auditors, led by Valentin Konstantinovic Simonenko, conducted a financial review of the documents and the implementation of legislation on those who have the status of National, and gave us a detailed analysis of that. And I'm not going to repeat what's in the materials. I think that you, after examining them in detail, will make sure that in Ukraine the laws have become a system. This is a system of power that exists in Ukraine today. We are first captured by land, built, and, of course, all of this is done with the blessing of high officials or with appropriate patronage, and then they are looking for bypassing ways to legitimize this aberration and circumvent legislation. We have both the Attorney General's Office and a large number of power ministries, but as they say: "Vehicle and now there." That's why we see the territory of the National Hortician Reserve being built. This is a violation of article 85 of the earthly code. There's got to be an act of ownership that doesn't exist first. In 1993, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to remove the territory concerned, define the boundaries, and conduct an inventory of sociocultural objects. This was foreshadowed by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. What's done? Nothing's done yet. Instead, the Zaporozhye National Property Fund, by decision of 462 of May 3, 1995 and of 1199 of August 27, 1998, gives orders for the privatization of sociocultural objects. In particular, it's sanatoriums, VAT prophylaxis, VAT, Sputnik VAT, it's all done with violations of current legislation. I did not accidentally ask Sergey Ivanovich what the Ministry was doing, the Cabinet of Ministers. Did they not notice that? Sadly, all of this was silenced. Because there was a corresponding blessing and a suitable patronage. I'm not talking about individual individuals being violated. I'm surprised at all how can you conduct an unauthorized construction on the "Dinamo" Recreational Area of Internal Affairs? It is he who must exercise control over the territory concerned, protect, see what is happening there, and why construction is taking place without a decision and without permission even the direction of the reserve. I am no longer referring to the appropriate ministry that is scheduled to issue its visa, as provided for today by valid legislation and the Code of Earth. Among the memories of Ukrainian Cossacks, Horticians are not the only ones being destroyed. Repeatedly, the meeting of the Supreme Council, particularly today, referred to Trachtemires, which, in accordance with article 4 of the 1992 Land Code, could not be passed on to private or collective property. But it was done. I would like to quote the words of Mr. Bakay, who is now actually the master of this territory. He writes, "As evidenced by archaeological excavations, this area thanks to almost perfect natural conditions has attracted our ancestors from ancient times. The historical period from the Neolithic Age to the Cossack Times was almost all preserved here. ” I'm not going to quote any further, I'm just going to say that he's raising all of this as his own achievement. Look at the tracts on which there is no Ukrainian symbolism, but there is a picture of Mr. Bakay, who owns it. The same is true of the Sofia Dendropark, Ascania-Nova, where there is no fence, and not even a car and security. Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz was in Tacheva Zakarpatski district, so three and a half miles [three and a half kilometers] of fences were stolen on the border. I understand that's where smugglers go. And in Ascani, the New One walks animals. There is a need for protection! That's where we have to look! Don't they see this ministry, the Cabinet of Ministers? I think it's a matter that needs to be resolved. And the last one as an offer. We've studied in detail, I think, and you've done it, the application made by the House of Accounts. I think that the decision proposed by the committee today needs to be supported and must be passed on to the Attorney General's Office with the appropriate reference to report in March what has been done in Ascania-New and other socio-cultural subjects, separately in Hortica, because it is a problem that has been violated at Parliament's level. And I don't think we should be indifferent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u138	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given by the national deputy Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. He will be followed by national deputy Kuras Ivan Fedorovich. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to follow the rules. Please explain the lists of those who signed up for the talks from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u139	Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank all those who have welcomed me with 75 years of age. They are people of different political preferences, different positions. I think it would be wise for us to anticipate giving one minute to those to whom we welcome a round date, to express our gratitude. Because it's not very nice. And now for Hortica and our business. The minister spoke and said that most of the time there was no record of a violation of the law. This area is regulated by several legislative acts. This is the President's decree, the Cabinet of Ministers' decree and position. Meanwhile, these normative acts were violated at every turn. For example, the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of April 6, 1993, of 254. It undertook, inter alia, to conduct an inventory of objects located in the Hortical Reserve in 1993 and to resolve, in an orderly manner, the transfer of them to and removal from its territory by foreign organizations. Horticia was inhabited by an empire that wanted to destroy traces of the Ukrainian nation on this island for many years, decades, and centuries. The Communist authorities continued such destruction, so they settled there as if they had fallen, and now there are people living in contraband, and they have not been relocated. The decree obliged them to move out. It's not done. This must be done. Next. It was Presidential decree of 587 of October 11, 1994. It states that it is not a matter of privatization to establish a culture that is granted the status of nationals. As we drove down the streets of this island, we saw that beautiful fences, greens, blues, reds, and paint were not yet dry. So someone rich bought the fences from the owners, built the fence, and now there will be a real palace or a very good house behind it. It couldn't have been formed. But the notary was formed, and the authorities should have known. So this is a total violation of the National Hortician Reserve. I'm convinced that we should eventually change our attitude towards our cultural heritage, which we have inherited from the past. When Ukraine became a nation of its own, we cannot view it as we once did the occupying power of all values and spiritual values. Horticia is a real spiritual treasury, a center where Cossacks and our idea of fighting for independence were centered. Now Hortica reminds us of the abandoned area of the neglected city: they are building what has fallen, how it has fallen and where it has fallen. Where's the government? Why does it not carry out any decrees or regulations, nothing? How can such lawlessness continue to be tolerated?Oh, my God! Our indifference to the island and to those reserved places can be explained only by our indifference to our national destiny. I urge you to feel responsible for Ukraine and to put it in order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u140	People's Deputy Kuras Ivan Fedorovich of the faction "Ukraine" is invited to the floor. The next was the national deputy of Bastrig, but he readdressed his speech by Dolcek Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u141	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Remarkable members of the government! Dear colleagues! All matters of today’s order are organically linked. Indeed, poverty cannot be overcome by material, financial, or spiritual poverty, and the problem of preserving a cultural heritage is an important part of spiritual health, man’s spiritual wealth, and his historical memory. To avoid repeating what the reporters and co-reporters have already said very well, I would like to draw your attention to some of the suggestions. You might think that we have a good Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage. [[For the first time in years, such a law has been passed]] In a very short time after its adoption, a fairly detailed legal framework has been developed, but the organizational and especially financial arrangements for their implementation are clearly not in line with the acute issues that need to be addressed. These include the need for the establishment of local executives and local self - government units subordinated to the State Department of Cultural Heritage, which has recently been established within the Ministry of Culture and Art. I could remind you of the very long discussions that have taken place in previous years around this issue, and thank God that it has finally been resolved. Sadly, this service is virtually unfunded. In this regard, one of the causes of all the turmoil and ambiguity that is taking place with regard to history and culture is the crime of building under the walls of Sofia Kyivsky and in the territory of Kiev - Pecherské laureate, the total theft of archaeological monuments, the destruction of the historic center of Lviv, the decline of unique monuments in Kamyanca Podilski, the situation on the island of Horticica, the acts of vandalism on the memorial tombs, and so forth. This sad list can continue. And I'm personal, and our faction thinks that very imperfect is legislation in the area of privatization and land use. [[It's already been said, I'm not going to open this thesis.]] We consider it necessary to speed up work on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Undersea Cultural Heritage and the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Monuments That Are Not Privatized. In order to prevent the spread of vandalism, we propose to develop amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Code by increasing the penalties for the crimes involved. There is also a need to speed up the work of creating a single register of moving historical and cultural values and a state register of immovable cultural monuments. We consider it appropriate to do appropriate work to harmonise existing legislation. I would also like to draw attention to this question, Reverend Vladimir Petrovich and Oleg Viktorovich. We need the government to finally fund the publication of the "Cultural History Remembrance". This is the passport of our culture and history, and if the state is unable to issue such a unique edition, I don't understand what we're talking about here today. [[27 volumes]] I would also like to draw attention to these two other questions. Dear Yuri Petrovich, you said that our joint document was being considered at the Ministry of Justice, on the subject of open letters about excavations. We received an answer from the Academy of Sciences, and it is clear that we do not have the right to make such decisions. A paradox, the Institute of Archaeology, which is part of the National Academy of Sciences, is right, and that is true, and NANU does not have that right. We were assigned to cancel the decision in five days, so I would like to find out. Dear Sergey Ivanovich, we very much ask you on behalf of the National Academy of Sciences to pay attention to our argument on the Biosphere Danube Reserve. I have a lot of suggestions, I'll put them in writing. I think they're directly related to both cultural heritage and conservation and conservation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u142	Thank you, Ivan Fedorovich. That's it, Peter Petrovich. To prepare for the People's Deputy of Polishku, the People's Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u143	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I will not bury your souls with examples of mistreatment of cultural heritage; they have already been cited quite a bit from this rostrum. Sadly, this is the situation today, and it calls for dramatic changes. I would like to focus, first, on the reasons for this situation, and secondly, on how we can get out of this crisis. It seems to me that we have relatively good laws, but there is virtually no executive power in the area of preservation of cultural monuments, no clear vertical from the Ministry of Culture to the areas and areas that would specifically care for the preservation of the monuments. [[And it doesn't seem like it is, and the Minister of Culture agrees with it.]] [[Not all of them, though.]] In addition, the system of functions of this cultural body has not been developed. We've decided today that every area, and even from the Ministry of Culture, should create scientific research structures, expeditions and so on, and the matter of memory protection is somewhere on the edge. Yuri Petrovich, we talked to you about this: the inspector can't catch poachers and catch fish at the same time. At the Ministry of Culture and Art today, this is a system: the Ministry has to protect it, and the network of scientific research institutions -- the Institute of Archaeology, the appropriate colleges, the museums -- are doing research on your orders. I think we need to put order in this. We have some deformity in the idea of what memory protection is and how it needs to be done. You see how many recently we've rebuilt, rebuilt magnificent cathedrals -- this is also the Pyrogoschi Church on the Podola, this is the Mikhailian and Sperm Councils, today we're building the Church of Christmas in the Postal Square. I don't think we can put this thing on the industrial stream. Because while we're building new buildings, every year we have 50 authentic buildings that die in the 16th, 17th, 18th centuries. Thus, we will never get out of this vicious circle, we will see these unique buildings perish, and we will build new buildings. The new building, the building of a monument, is an artificial object that can be one national, and today we have put it on a stream, and we are investing in it a crazed cost, hundreds of millions of dollars. There are 13 million dollars planned for the restoration and renovation of the state budget, only 3 million are allocated, and we spent 100 million dollars on just one Mikhail Council, right? So there is some deformation. Dear colleagues, distinguished Yuri Petrovich and members of the government! I think we should add to the Cultural Heritage Protection Act today the Archaeological Heritage Protection Act, where we must clearly regulate responsibility for the prosperity of black archaeology. [[His first-reading project is already in place.]] You know, there are so many things that are depasported that are practically dead for science, that are left only with beautiful dots in our country's collectors and they're sailing abroad. Sometimes I'm told, well, there are people who have money and buy these things. But demand creates supply, and by doing so, it stimulates our black archaeology. It's both Ukrainian and global, I think it needs to be solved. So Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Yuri Petrovich, and all members of the government, the main problem is the system of cultural heritage protection. Laws are good, let's have the will to do them in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u144	National Deputy Poliscuk Kirilo Ananiyovich, MP of the People's Landing. Prepare the National Deputy of Shershun, "Agrarians of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u145	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[electoral district 98, Kyiv region]] Dear Head! Dear colleagues, members of the government, present! As you know, the National Ethnographic History Reserve of Pereyaslav, which is in the Preyyaslav Chmelnicka Kyiv region, is one of the leading reserves of Ukraine, not too much if I say that this is the pearl of the history of Ukraine. It has 381 archaeological, existential, and historical monuments of the Ukrainian people. The reserve includes 25 thematic museums, which hold 383,000 historical and cultural monuments, among which are unique collections of world significance. These are the great treasures of the Ukrainian people. In recent years, however, there has been no funding for the acquisition of exhibits and repairs. Moreover, in 2000, the military security of the reserve was removed because of a debt of 20,000 dollars to date. Unique monuments are at risk of destruction. Although the Pereaslav Reserve was granted national status by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on June 1, 1999, the issue of its subordination and financing has not yet been resolved. Since the President's decree does not explicitly define the conditions for funding from the district budget, it automatically enters into force the provisions on the national institutions of Ukraine, according to which such institutions are kept on the balance of the Ministry of Culture and Arts of Ukraine and are financed from the state budget rather than from the district budget. That is why I am now requesting the Prime Minister of Ukraine to issue a mandate to prepare and adopt a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to transfer the National Historical and Ethnographic Reserve "Prejaslav" from the balance sheet of the Kiev State Administration to the balance sheet of the Ministry of Culture and Arts and to take into account the budget of the Ministry for the following year the funding of the Reserve. [[Yuri Petrovich, there's an order from the President. Let's get this case to the end.]] By the way, in 1977, the construction of a historical museum began in Preyyaslav Chmelnicki. By the end of 1980, construction had been suspended and renewed only last year when the government had allocated 500,000 dollars from the state budget. Construction is planned to continue, especially in 2002, with 500,000 dollars to be recovered, but the cost has not yet come, even though it is necessary today, because every day the building is under construction, and millions of government funds already spent can go to the wind. That's why I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance directly to find an opportunity to allocate funds to continue the construction of the historical museum in Preyaslav-Hmelnick. There is another question about the military area of the Woznesen Monastery. I think we're going to decide on the transfer of the territory of this military to the National Historical and Ethnographic Reserve in the working order. This should be done as quickly as possible. This is where the 18th - century chapel was painted by Taras Grigorovich Shevchenko, a metropolis building, a complex of underground buildings. And to conclude, I would like to ask all the national structures on which the solution to the problems that have been affected in my speech depends, with understanding, to deal with them because the care and preservation of historical and cultural monuments contribute to the raising of respect for the historical heritage, culture and spirituality of the Ukrainian nation as a young generation, and to the raising of the international authority of our nation. Dear Head, please consider my statement to be a delegation assignment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u146	All right, I'm asking the secretariat to prepare an appropriate assignment for the Cabinet of Ministers. People's deputy Shershoun Mikola Haritonovich is invited to attend. To prepare for the national deputy of Baburin, who will speak instead of the national deputy of Frost Anatolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u147	Head of the committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[electoral district 157, Ravenna region]] Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! In the government's information, the speeches by Ukrainian national deputies have raised many pressing issues regarding the preservation of our people's natural and cultural acquisitions and highlighted important problems. I wanted to stop at some other aspects of activity in this area. First. As we know, the vast majority of natural-inventory areas and objects are located in forest areas. [[Over 75 per cent]] The current state of the reserve network is the result of many years of cooperation between public authorities in forestry, nature conservation, scientists, the public. There are promising areas that can be further reserved in the near future. All who depend on it need to work hard together. However, to my conviction, the prospects for the development of a conservation business in Ukraine at this stage need to be linked not only to the formal growth of areas of conservation that often exist only on paper, but also to ensuring the reliable conservation and effective use of already created objects for the development of science, education, recreation, patriotic and environmental education of young people, environmental monitoring. We need to accelerate the formation of a single ecological network that has to link the reserves and other areas that are particularly protected into a single system. The second thing I'd like to stop at. The development of conservation, environmental tasks must be more balanced with the economic, social, and other interests of society, the local population. The whole of Ukraine can be declared a reserve or a national park, and everything can be banned, but it must be remembered that life is multifaceted, and mankind has not yet invented an adequate replacement for traditional forest or agriculture. It would therefore be appropriate to entrust the Minecores, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine with appropriate research, inventory of existing natural-inventory areas and sites, and to decide on a forward-looking network of conservation areas, conservation standards in various natural areas. As for taking into account the interests of the local people in the development of the reserve, I must say that the commandment cannot be antagonistic to the needs of the people. Its development, in addition to achieving environmental and scientific goals, should serve to improve people’s living conditions by creating new jobs, supporting environmentally sound entrepreneurial activities. And this will also be a step towards overcoming poverty, which we discussed so hotly during the morning session. Next question. An important issue of conservation is the identification of a scientifically based regime for rehabilitation, sanitation, firefighting, and other conservation measures. Despite years of discussion, proper clarity in this area has never been achieved. Regrettably, not everyone realizes that the restoration of previously damaged ecosystems requires certain measures to be taken in order to preserve limited areas of natural, typical, and unique natural complexes, otherwise natural dynamics will cause such objects to lose their scientific and environmental value. In terms of funding, only one example — the Shevchenkov National Reserve in Canevi — is not funded enough. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the staffing of the state reserve service. Compulsory requirements for such professionals are the level of professionalism, knowledge of legislation, understanding of the role and place of conservation among other community tasks, the ability to cooperate with scientists, central and local executive authorities, local authorities, and the public. So I would like this to be reflected in our decision. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u148	The word is given to the national deputy Baburin, a faction of Communists. Prepare for the People's Deputy Widow. The national MP Mokchan insists, and we will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u149	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! First of all, a comment on the draft decree of the Supreme Council. I suggest in paragraph 6, that the options for building the bridge be reviewed, that the period should not be three months, but a month. That will be enough, as the options for building the bridge have been under discussion for 15 years, and we will not come up with anything new. Let me now focus on the acute problem of the one-and-a-half thousand Hortitsa inhabitants who have been outcasts in their own country. Nine years ago, a ban on the privatization of state housing had been imposed upon the Hortica Reserve. For most citizens, a privatized apartment is today the only major property that has earned over many years of work. This urbanized area is only a few hectares away in the northern part of the recreational and economic zone, next to the bridge called Prezorski, the railway station, the highway. The township has entered the Zaporozhye community housing fund and has all the engineering communications, the infrastructure, from shops, schools, kindergartens to municipal theatres. The scientific town is 8 kilometres from the southern part of the island, where there is indeed a natural-invoice zone. For example, there is no such problem in the famous Askaniya Nova Reserve, registered by UNESCO. In order to restore to our fellow citizens their legitimate rights, we can, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 36 of the Constitution, abolish the prohibition of the privatization of state housing in the reserve or, in our decision, provide for the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve the question of the withdrawal from the reserve of the scientific town where the state housing fund is located. [[In this regard, there are also the findings of the Constitutional Court]] The third is resettlement, but it is a ghost because housing is almost frozen in Ukraine. [[with the exception of the city of Kiev]] And is it appropriate to pull up over a thousand and a half people from occupied places where they have lived for tens of years? Finally, I would recommend to the members of the High Council's parliamentary commission not to deal with the delusional idea of the violent Ukrainianization of Zaporozhye, not to send a curse on the non-existent empire, not to fight dead leaders, but to think of living people who have delegated their powers to us, including to protect their vital interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u150	The word is given to the Widow of Gennady Josephovich, the faction of "Our Ukraine". Prepare the people's MP, also from the faction "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u151	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I was on the island of Hortica on Easter, and I looked at it. It's a terrible start! Nobody thinks about Ukraine's past, and the past is our future. I can't agree with my colleague Baburin here, but you can't forget your story, because history is our future. That's what state we're going to build-- here we can argue about that. The problem is, what do you do with the science town? But we don't have a comprehensive approach to solving it. What should we do with this sanctuary? Because it shouldn't be owned by Zaporozhye, owned by a scientific town, it's our national pride, it's our story. We'll forget about it -- there won't be any state. How will we raise young people? What's going on? During the time of the Soviet authorities, they built a resting - place for the Komsomol asset. Now it's packed up, it's running, it's running, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, An investor appeared, and the rest base was already privatized, and the land was privatized. There is only one law: that the governor will say that the city head will say yes. On Easter, Ukraine’s National Movement, a local district organization, celebrates a festival there, with some 5,000 people meeting each year. It was normal for them to celebrate peacefully, and they brought the shorts, and they took the half a liter with them, and they drank, and they sang the song, and they parted. What does the local authorities do? On that day, the buses were taken off the route! This is how we contribute to the restoration of statehood. And there came a group of deputies led by Tanyuk, eight men. They were also laid as soon as possible. What's going on in the state? Unfortunately, I deviated from my text, and I also wanted to express myself painfully. In this area, there are two positions: a geological order and a national reserve. [[These are the thresholds on Dniper.]] These positions are completely mutually exclusive. The Cabinet of Ministers initially adopted one, a few years later, another, but everyone forgets that the initiator of the preservation of this national heritage was former Prime Minister Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine, an appropriate legislative act was adopted in 1995. There's nothing going on! People good, how long before we destroy our rich history?Oh, my God! Academic Toloczko has already spoken of black archaeology, everything is being stolen, destroyed! Hundreds of millions of dollars the state loses, and we sit there and we say no, we don't have to do that. I'd like to encourage support for the draft decision that Tanjuk and his brigade have proposed, perhaps a little bit of modification, a little tightening, and finally at least starting to put order in his country.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u152	Thank you. National MP Mokchan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u153	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Dear members of the government! The issue that the Supreme Council deals with together with the government is part of the national problem of Ukrainian culture in its saddest historical period, when in an independent Ukraine the authorities come into the hands of those people who have their own understanding of history, culture and the future. In the 1980s, I had to participate in dialogues with the authorities about the sovereign development of Ukrainian culture. As the main arguments at the time, the authorities used two postulates -- "socialist culture" and "radian people" -- to counter any attempt at self-reliance. I'm not going to decipher these concepts, the content of them is well-known, according to Kerke Agor, it's "great nothing." But I didn't realize that later, at the end of the second millennium, there would be more "nothing" when cynicism and contempt, the spirit of profit and profit would form a new ideology in the country -- the ideology of irresponsibility, self-sustainment and moral discord -- which would, in turn, lead to the total destruction of all spiritual zones, including national historical and cultural commandments. A chain reaction began: destruction caused dehumanization, moral deformation, from deformation to destruction. It's not just morals and life, it's psychology that's deforming, it's the patterns of historical life. If a member of the all-powerful Cosa Nostras is being ordered in the reserve zones to change the movements of rivers and rivers, to lure islands and build palaces to entertain a limited caste of untouchables, if several-story holiday villas are being built in the National Botanical Garden of Crimea, yet a circle of all-involveds, when they create new sites under Kiev to release sea yachts from their hangars, when they privatize objects such as the Beer Island, then it makes sense that what kind of hearings or days of government can stop this process of deformation of the national organism? [[It doesn't matter if it's cultural or natural.]] The fundamental definition of this process is known to everyone, because everyone sees it, everyone understands it. Society’s energy builds up, not every day, but every hour. Our national history shows that this energy endured, destroyed everything to the ground. Thus, the first warning to those who build the Gospel on the sand is: Stop, make sure, for, according to our immortal Thessalonians, there is no pocket in the coffins, and the thousandth share of your wealth can help the stolen Ukraine to settle both the museum and the affairs of the national reserves. [[We know who]] Can't we just buy cars? Can't you build museums and rooms? Look what has been built around the great cities of Ukraine! And the second is not a warning, but a question. If you are building for yourself by changing the historical landscape, you probably intend to live here. If so, why change the standards of life and make devastating attacks on human life? In the distant and distant historical times, there were so many marginals that they declared themselves a new elite or aristocracy, standing above an absolute majority on clay legs. And you don't have to confuse two things: money and morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, we'll finish. Half a minute, Nikolainka. Please turn on the microphone. That's what burns and hurts people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u155	The faction of the Socialist Party. I'm asking 1 minute to say a few words about Ascania-Nova, the world-renowned biosphere reserve. I would like to ask the government today to draw attention to the fact that the "Property" program ended in 2000. We need a new program, because there is legislation, but we need to be strengthened by concrete measures. That's the first one. The other one. On behalf of the collective reserve, I would like to draw attention to the need for continuous, regular financing of biosphere reserves, including in Hersonian, two such reserves. Rare animals can’t starve for three months, but they can only eat at the end of the year when money is spent. Third. I'd like to say that you can't plan on getting special funds, making biosphere reserves earn, including these funds into the budget, because this unethical funding, and it could lead to the destruction of all national reserves. [[It's me turning to the financial block.]] Four. I ask the Government and the Committees of the Supreme Council to pay attention to such issues as the cost of water. We're not planning 200,000 dollars in the budget, let's say we're paying for the watershed, and they're taking these costs off the reserve regularly. And last of all, about updating animal collections. We gave Ascania Nova the status of nationals, but animals don't get updated, people from all over the world come and see where they are in a pitiful state. It's a disgrace! So I'd like to pay very great attention to the National Biosphere Reserve of Ascania Nova and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u156	Boris Oilynik, Communist faction, procedure. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u157	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! Absolutely right, there was still a residual principle of financing culture, but then there was something left, and now there's nothing. And it was all perfectly clear. By the way, I was one of the ones who stopped building a bridge across Horticia in the 1980s. I just don't know what they've been doing for ten years if a government that's only been working for a year and a half is considered unsatisfactory. Then let's name everyone who's been doing something or not for ten years, as our Precipitator once said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll finish. Good thing that there were many who wanted to speak is evidence that we care, that we are burning and hurting all that is happening in this area. Today, I think we have made a good impression on our wounds and expressions. Most importantly, we need to define with the government a system of work. National MP Cibenko said that today the problem of poverty is a national security issue. To my profound belief, you can add that this is also the problem of humanity of executive power, the problem of the moral face of the state and the meaning of its existence, if you want. I think that's the problem -- the problem of poverty -- we're drowning in words. I'm sorry for the use of this term, but it really is. We need to stop talking about poverty and strategies, and we need to move on to a specific day’s work. Enough programs, we need to provide a systematic approach to solve this problem step by step, which is not up to any state, including a state with a proud name, Ukraine. It's very good that we've discussed today the preservation of the natural-intelligence fund, the historical and cultural heritage of the Ukrainian people. [[And I'd like to emphasize -- not just saving, but also playing.]] We have to understand that this is a problem with the genetic code of Ukraine -- whether we keep this code, or if we lose it permanently. We need to realize that we are losing our historical memory, and so we are losing our present and, in fact, our future. They will not need economic achievements. Dear colleagues! Taking into account the suggestions that have been made, taking into account the pain that has been said today about the problems of poverty and our spiritual acquisition, I ask the relevant committees to work on draft regulations so that we can determine on Thursday. [[And they're interconnected.]] The main thing is not to write inconveniently, you have to accept the active documents that are going to be implemented. [[We've already learned that.]] The discussion is over. We'll decide on Thursday. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The evening session will begin at 4 p.m. Thank you for your patience and attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m0.u159	Member of the EOE of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for pensioners, veterans and disabled persons. [[Election District 175, Kharkiv Region]] Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The progressive spread of poverty in Ukraine has been described as a national disaster in recent years. This is the result of economic, political and social processes. In our society, where political power is unevenly divided and reflects the distribution of economic power, the poor are victims of corruption and state domination. Poverty is not just a lack of income or human development, it's also a humiliation and a lack of voice, power and representation. The poor live without freedom of speech and choice. According to the UN, 49 percent of the population of Ukraine is outside the poverty line. This is much more than, let's say, Romania, Pakistan. We often have poverty as a satellite, not just of educated and qualified people, but of people working in full-time employment. Young families are increasingly refusing to give birth not only to the third or second child but also to the only child. In 2001, birth rates were twice as low as those needed to reproduce the population. There is no clear and systematic state policy aimed at overcoming poverty. The government lacks understanding that overcoming poverty is not just support for disadvantaged people, it is a comprehensive approach that is geared both to poor people and to relatively secure populations. Poverty can be overcome through three ways: capacity-building, confidence-building, and security. The State’s efforts to raise the standard of living of all the population must be based on sustained economic growth and the fullest possible use of the country’s labour potential. In itself, however, economic growth has never solved social challenges. In addition to reforming the pay system, which is designed and approved by the President, economic inequality must be reduced through flexible tax policies, rational social transfers, the promotion of small and medium-sized businesses, the protection of the rights of small shareholders. The first priority is to implement a full-scale pension reform, taking into account that there is no alternative to increasing retirement age. We need to radically change the current system of benefits, which is a painful point in modern social policy. We have nine types of multiple and four types of disposable benefits, and over 70 percent of their recipients are fairly well - supplied. Among the users of the benefits of housing services, the proportion of the poor reaches 77 percent. The system of social support for disadvantaged populations should be oriented toward those who really need it. The warning of social conflicts caused by poverty takes time, trust in authority at all levels, and the concerted action of all social institutions. The achievement of global financial stability, the reduction of market barriers to goods and the services of poor countries, should form the basis of a strategy. If developing countries and the international community work together with financial opportunities, in the 21st century we will see tangible progress in the fight against poverty. Thank you for your attention.
