ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There were 397 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. What? Can't I hear you? More, huh? So it's more than that. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue our consideration of matters according to the schedule of our meetings. Yes. What, the procedure? National Deputy Stretovic, please. Turn on the microphone of the people's representative Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have had a pending question since November 29 about the report of the Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime, and due to the celebration of the professional day of the prosecutor's office in the hall there was no Reports by the Attorney-General on the status of the prosecution's supervision of this category of cases. I would ask you, my dear colleagues, and you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to include half an hour on Friday, 20 minutes to listen to the report and to ask questions and to make a draft decision next week and to close the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u3	Yes, we have a debt. Dear colleagues, I will now ask the Secretariat to prepare this matter. But I just want to focus on one thing -- not the report, but the information. Because according to the Public Prosecutor's Act, the Attorney General is reporting in a year, a month after the end of the year, when all the generalizations will be. So this is going to be information. Do we have a deal? Well, if there's no objection, then that's how we're going to do it. Friday. Dear colleagues, we would now like to consider two bills, which are made by the head of the State Property Fund, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar. They say he's stuck in traffic right now in traffic, so let's do it this way, maybe we'll now consider a bill that concerns the National Bank. Is it from the National Bank? You don't? I'm asking you to take care of this. I fully agree with you, with this assessment, let the Secretariat take care of it and inform us. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Participation of Citizens in Public Order and the State Border on the Elimination of Article 17 on the Insurance of Members of the Civil Forces. Reporter is Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior Hapon Alexander Andriyovich. The profile committee suggests that we look at it very quickly, and they've written 10 minutes for the whole question. Is there no objection? Please, Alexander Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On June 22, 2000, the Ukrainian Act on the Participation of Citizens in the Protection of Public Order and the State Border was adopted. Article 17 of the Law provides that the order and terms of the insurance of members of public formation from the protection of public order and the state border are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, this rule started to run counter to the new edition of the Ukrainian Insurance Act, adopted on 4 October 2001, in particular article 41, which prevents any centralised regulation of the size of insurance payments and insurance charges, the terms of insurance contracts, insurance relations and insurance undertakings except compulsory insurance. In doing so, part 7 of article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on Citizens' Participation in Public Order and State Border stipulates that members of public formations can be insured at the expense of the appropriate local budgets. That is, the standard does not require compulsory insurance for a defined category of persons. In this connection, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine has developed a bill for the execution of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which provides for the deletion of part 8 of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the involvement of citizens in the protection of public order and the state border, in order to bring it into line with the Insurance Act. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u5	Thank you. Is there a question? Please sign up, we'll take five minutes if you have any questions. Please sign up. Light up on the board. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u6	There always is, there will be, and there will be! Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Dear reporter, please tell me your opinion, someone from the U.S.S.A. Wants to, won't wait. I'm telling everyone. Well, I fully support it, but please tell me, your point is whether the budget sequester took place by order of Minfin, the 97.5 million dollars are reduced by the militia, including negative 30 million to protect the public order, which means that people will be completely unsecured. This is now, by the end of the year, the New Year. How it's going to affect all of this, if we're going to treat the public somewhere else.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u7	Well, that's what you are. Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich. I don't think that's gonna work. To date, there are about 674,000 members of public formations working for the protection of public order and the state border in general. If we rule it out. Today it's about bringing legislation into line -- and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u8	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u9	Quickly, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Tell me, I'm interested in your personal opinion, and if there's not enough money in the local budget, what never happens? So why don't you express your personal opinion: is it correct that this is translated into local budgets, or would it still have to be saved by the state, by the state budget, and by the Cabinet of Ministers? Your personal opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u10	Well, there is a law that we must act under today. And so we made a proposal to bring the law into line with the last law that was passed in 2002. So they didn't make that offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u11	Did you complete your answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u13	Thank you. Have a seat. The person who signed up asked a question. Please, from the committee. Alexander Markovich Bandurka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u14	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The Committee on Law Enforcement dealt with this earlier issue, and the proposals of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which we support in the form of a bill through the Cabinet of Ministers. Indeed, this rule of law, which is enshrined in the Law on Public Participation in the Protection of Public Order and the State Border, is dead. We refer there to only one, well, kind of citizen help. If you take insurance, then you have to either spread it to everyone: and those on the DAI route help, and those who help the security, or who act loudly, the law has to be the same for everyone. Second, that no bracelet was ever planned under this law. There is a general Insurance Act, and it is used by citizens. And this law in this part didn't work at all. So it would be appropriate if we could get him to fit in, make him just effective, freeing him from unwary records there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, is there a question? Yes, yes. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u16	Thanks, Communist faction, Gurenko. Alexander Markovich, well, this is what I was sitting on while you were speaking so meaningfully in the rostrum, divided 600,000 with a hook into 25 admins. And it turns out that in every area, including the city of Kiev, 25,000 men protect public order on the grounds of public order, so to speak. And I wanted to ask you how is this from your experience, from your, so to speak, knowledge of this case, where did this figure come from? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u17	Stanisław Ivanovich, you have already answered your question with the sarcasm with which you asked that question. Well, there's statistics that are being evaluated. What the public is doing today is in new forms, there are groups of self-security, there are groups of patrols, there are no employees. But really, 600,000 leads to reflection, because that's three times as much as the police.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u18	Thank you. Who else has the question? None. Thank you, Alexander Markovich. Do we need to discuss this bill? Who signed up, let's see. Recorded, one minute, Puzakov National Deputy, Communist faction. Will you be performing? Please. This time Carmazin is second.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u19	Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The main disadvantage of this law is that internal affairs agencies, local self - government bodies, foreign forces, executive authorities are deprived of the possibility of accepting public formations from the protection of public order and the state border. They are not their founders, they have no right to actually control their activities, to hold them responsible for their violations, to demand employment reports, to encourage them to work at their own expense. They're also deprived of the ability to solve personnel issues. All of these issues are resolved by civil formation on their own, since they are, according to their statute, independent organizations, directly unsubordinate bodies to which they help. Thus, as a result of civil formation, there is an opportunity to draw one conclusion: civil formations are created on their own, and the organs to promote the activities they create work on their own. In order to address this problem, it is necessary to change the status of civil formations by changing them, not separately, but in the bodies to which they should help. In order for civil formations to work effectively, it is necessary to write out more clearly the sources of their funding. Under market conditions in Ukraine, incentives in the form of a valuable gift and an additional paid vacation in mass unemployment and a low level of employment will not stimulate the active work of members of public order. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that under a difficult criminal situation in the country, few people would agree to risk health, life for the sake of a valuable gift or literacy. A person’s consciousness has changed dramatically and has been stimulated by a low standard of living. In order to attract the funds of entrepreneurial structures to address public order issues, tax law needs to include tools to encourage entrepreneurs to finance public formations. It could be tax benefits, rent-free payments, community payments. At the same time, it is necessary to provide in pension legislation for the promotion of the participation of citizens in social formations: pension benefits, partial payment of health - care travel, extra-secondary housing, relief from municipal payments, free treatment, telephone payments, benefits in colleges. The law should not only declare a citizen’s right to protect public order but also encourage both the citizen and the enterprise in which he works. This is especially true when the number of law enforcement personnel is reduced and the gravity of the internal affairs system is transferred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u20	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u21	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! The proposed change comes out of the law on citizens' participation in public order and the State border, and we need to adopt this rule, and we can adopt it in the first and second readings at the same time. I absolutely agree with the National MP of the 5th call by Alexander Bandurka, who said that this standard is actually dead. But to say that there are no questions here means not to say anything. So, in discussing this issue, I would like to emphasise that article 41 of the Insurance Act does not allow, except for compulsory types of insurance, life insurance, citizens' property under State guarantee and insurance intermediaries' activities, any centralised regulation, unification, restrictions. etc., the size of insurance payments. That is, the order and terms of the insurance of members of the public order of the State border do not require the approval of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, since the law I spoke of does not provide for the introduction of compulsory insurance. But is it necessary for him to predict it or not? Obviously, this law needs to be amended, but this is for the future, which would provide guarantees for people who will take part in the protection of public order, because the situation of public order will unfortunately be even worse. And I emphasize that the anti-constitutional order for the official use of the Minister of Finance of the former Yusko, as of 19 August, has been reduced by funding, in fact by your function, by national deputies, to ensure the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, society and the state from unlawful violations and public order by 30 million dollars. Imagine how much more dangerous it was to walk in the streets. And using the presence of the Secretary of State, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I'm drawing attention to the saviour that continues to be carried out by the departments of the U.S. Last night, I was approached by a group of citizens about the violations that are being committed in Winnice with regard to the citizen of Nikituk, who, despite what is in the hospital after the micro-infarct where she was led by these workers, is actually under what? Under the protection of the Special Branch of the Falcon. Your Honor, where do we spend the government's money? What are we doing? Little did the minister from this rostrum say that it was necessary to change the situation. We can't reach Cherkasov. We can't reach Cherkasov. Please find Cherkasov, make sure he's in order. Gigi's gone, there's nobody left to throw at. But let's put it in order! This law should be adopted in two readings at the same time. And I'm waiting for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to react to what is illegal outside the constitutional way that people are deprived of their will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u22	24 seconds. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, as far as this law is concerned, I don't think there should be two thoughts, it should still be accepted, whether someone likes it or not, and the reason here is completely simple and simple. We've got too many things regulated by the rulings, the Cabinet of Ministers' rulings, and we already have problems in a whole range of social spheres, problems that have been brought to a deep deadlock, those issues that relate to socially painful problems should be adopted at the level of law. We have the right legislative framework, which provides for the Citizens Insurance Act, which provides for a very clear definition of cases where there can be central regulation on insurance forms. In this case, this is not subject to this law, and if you introduce a central regulation, and I think it will still be necessary, it should be introduced by special rules of law, changes to the Insurance Act and changes to more specific paragraphs of the preceding article, and then you can consider it. The points that are so far about the fact that Kabdin can take that position or that it's not acceptable to me. Let's move on. We should not forget that there are needs and problems of local self - government, they are a separate branch of government, and we cannot impose on them Kabmin’s decrees that they should spend any money on insurance payments. This is a violation of the rights of local self-government, and the Supreme Council should be the one that will not allow it, because from the first two paragraphs we see that it is the authorities of local self-government that can import, create those insurance funds and directly provide those insurance payments. So I think that's definitely what we need to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll decide when we vote. Ivan Mihovich from the procedure, please. Turn on the microphone. Mighovich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u25	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the members of the committee in this bill to pay attention and find a possible legal norm to overcome such a very negative phenomenon that is observed everywhere in Zakartat and elsewhere. It's a massive robbery of collective gardening, of dowry. This is carried out by organized groups on a large scale with repetition, and it becomes a fact of vandalism. Moreover, this is done in our borders, and references to internal affairs do not give us anything. They refer to the need for self - defense, self - defense, and so forth. This phenomenon is related to poverty, but it takes on such scales and forms as may require more active intervention not only by the public but also by law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, I am introducing a draft law amending article 255 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning the powers of the National Environmental Protection Service. The profile committee is offering 12 minutes to answer that question. Reporter up to three minutes. If there's any questions, two minutes, report three and two respectively, and two minutes to discuss. No objections? Please, Vasil Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u27	The honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished people's deputies, the essence of the bill is the following. In accordance with the Ukrainian law on the natural reserve, the protection of natural reserves, national natural parks, botanical gardens, public zoos, and public value parks, Ukraine is relying on the service of the national conservation of the natural reserve. However, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences does not define the powers of officials of the natural-intelligence fund to draw up administrative records within the framework of the Ukrainian natural-indictment fund. The mandate of these officials is already defined by article 61 of the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Command Fund, which is a simple addition to the two laws of Ukraine. This will not require additional budget spending, and vice versa, it may only increase a little. I'd like to point out that today more than 4 percent of Ukraine's territory is a natural-intelligence fund, and these are especially valuable areas that belong to all people and future generations. Clearly, they need to be safeguarded. This law is a small step, but in the right direction, and I am asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand? The question is the need to ask? Well, if they insist, please sign in. I'm just asking, there's two minutes to ask, that's one question. Yes, Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u29	Vasil Yakovic, you have experience in your previous activity in this direction. I have this question: Is there enough of this change and what it would take to get the relevant services to look at the situation that has taken place over the past few years and to make more adequate conclusions. I mean, there's a lot of privatization of the nature conservation fund going on. People just, I met in Cherkaskie, Poltava County with forestry, well, they're just taking people away. And what's interesting, lately, is that it's not just entrepreneurs or businessmen, they're saying that this is the general line of government management, there, Mr. Daghayev, that we have to normally secure forestry, there, fishing for serious Kiev people. And not only do people get paid today, they won't be able to enter the forest soon enough, they won't be able to get in. Already in the Poltava region, grasshoppers are being persecuted because they can't be planted. What do you think you should do to make sure that people living in rural areas know that forest and ponds are where they can go?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u30	I thank you for asking. Of course, I'm going to analyze all the suggestions you've made, and I'm going to be willing to tell you more widely. Clearly, the adoption of this little law alone is not a sufficient step. We should consistently pursue our conservation policy as it is written in software documents in all but the parties and blocks that went to the Supreme Council of this call. And I promise you that I will be active in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u31	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u32	Dear reporter. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Of course, ministers change very often, as the glove may be more often, but that's not the point. I wish you'd been in this position for many years. This is about something else that my colleague has just talked about -- not only is it being destroyed, it's being stolen and, please tell us, our wealth is our nature. Please tell me, how long are we going to take such small steps in legislation? The authorities are taking large and powerful steps on the ground, destroying the acquisition of the people of Ukraine. On this point, will we support the bill, please say your steps in this regard? The Carpathians are destroyed, and not only the forests are cut out, but also in the conservation zones, and no one is said to be involved. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u33	I wouldn't want to answer your question emotionally. I thank you for wishing, although believe me, this is a very and very difficult load. The answer to your question is that today the local authorities are responsible for the state of compliance, for the state, for the conservation status of the territories, and the ministry is responsible for the regulatory, control functions. Here we need to strengthen the ministry and strengthen its position. Then I can do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u34	Thank you. Please have a seat, Vasil Jakovitch. From the committee, please, Sergey Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u35	Honorable deputies. A committee on law enforcement was discussed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the draft Ukrainian Law on the introduction of the 255th Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations of the Powers of Officials of the Protection Service, an institution of the natural resources fund. I won't waste any time, because Mr. Secretary has just reported everything. I'll just say what the committee supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u36	Thank you. Is there a question? Please, People's Deputy Melniczuk. Oh, excuse me, Kirilczuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u37	Thank you. So, anyway, maybe the committee should make some decisions or changes to the bill to stop the identity created by the local authorities? For example, for six months, the heads of the board will put to the vote, "Who's in charge of a district council session to approve all the orders of the head of the administration?" The buttons -- and the bets, and the woods, and even the areas that don't fall under the law -- that are given to entrepreneurs, that are leased, and they don't let people in. What should we do about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u38	I would like to tell you that your question does not exactly apply to the subject of this bill. Let me just say that what you're saying is really happening in the country. But for that, we have prosecutorial supervision. Therefore, there are competent authorities who are required to carry out their tasks so as not to do so. And if we say we can't do that, of course, there's no legal change to solve the problem. There is a need for proper prosecutorial control over the use of our forest holdings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u39	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u40	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", the Party of Fatherland Defenders, yes, Odessa is still a hero city like Kiev, but so far the whole country is occupied. Dear friends, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that by amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences, we will not move on. Because today the forests there are talking about the Cherkas region in the Kyiv region are hard to get into. The forests are allocated, advertised, look, and are now being distributed, distributed, distributed. See what the governor of the Kyiv region is doing today, and it is now set apart by hectares. Look what Kynach did the last time: The Desert Waters donated 22 hectares of Dynamo, 22 hectares of sanatorium. [[Kiev]] It's a crime. I don't know why the Attorney General of Piscoon hasn't filed a criminal case yet. And that would be the answer to questions about the employment of former Prime Minister Kinah, let him come now, write some papers for the Attorney General's Office. Thus, the solution to the issue of the adoption of this law is not the only solution. By the way, I'm drawing your attention to a much broader question. The question was that the President’s protection office would be there, and so on. What will be left for the people? The administration of the President's affairs, that was the question, of making protocols for the administrative breach in this area. That's what I'm reading to you from the committee. As pointed out, it is proposed to empower authorized and appointed persons, as well as the President's Office, to draw up protocols on administrative misconduct in this area. [[and recalculated]] So, if it's there or if it's the President's Office, I'll be absolutely against this law. If it does not appear, then this law can be passed in two readings at a time, for it is very small. Thank you, I owe you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u41	National Deputy Solomonine, Communist faction. Prepare the rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u42	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region In my opinion, this bill should be adopted, it would at least make things a little bit better for the conservation of the natural-intelligence fund. But I agree with my other colleagues that radically this issue is not resolved by such small improvements. And I just want to give you one example. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I was approached by a group of voters from the city of Obukhiv district of Kyiv. In this charming place, the beautiful corner was a district - based water sports base located on a large forest area. People were always resting and using this place to relax, it was a local resting place for the entire city’s population. What happened next? It's like a city council session is about handing over the entire area to 12 people in private. People claim that this issue was not considered in fact in the City Council session; it was only recorded in the minutes. Thereafter, 12 people sell these parts to three individuals who are well - known in our Ukraine. People beg, say, "Come and figure out what's going on here. We've already built a huge concrete fence and we can't even get to the places where we've always rested" and so on and so forth. What do I want to say about that? Just one. There's some distaste for the local authorities, and if someone sometimes thinks that when we pass laws on local self-government, we'll somehow get rid of the central dictatorship, we'll create tens and hundreds of thousands of new piles in places that do whatever they want. So to conclude, I want to say just this, a small step with the adoption of this law we will take, but we need to take more decisive steps to improve the entire political system in Ukraine and socio-economic relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u43	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u44	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Movement, "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I listened to questions and listened to the speeches of some of the national deputies and mentioned such a saying. He says, "Silence the deaf, it will be less sin." The problem is that this bill is not about protecting the entire forest or land or other things, but it is about the state. State security service for the natural-intelligence fund. We know that there are many such objects, reserves, biosphere reserves, national parks, botanical gardens, and so forth. And in order to ensure the protection of such objects and the creation of a public service for the conservation of the natural reserve. And the point is to empower this service to draw up protocols in order to detect wrongdoing by individuals or others. And when it comes to the state of protection of these objects, they are really unhappy today. In the summer, I observed what is happening on Lake World in Volinsk, where it is strictly forbidden to use motorboats, please, as you wish, such boats ride. Where construction is strictly prohibited, please do so at the expense of the funds. That's why today. And the nets, they put up nets of 400, 500 meters long to catch fish in this national park. That's why language works. And when I turned to the management of this park, they said to me, you know, we don't have authority, and there's no authority, and there's no authority. This is why it is now a matter of empowering the ministry to make protocols in the course of wrongdoings that have been discovered. I think that this bill is needed today, and I agree with those people's deputies that we need to look at the conservation of natural resources more broadly than we are doing today. And you know, on December 25, we're going to have parliamentary hearings on compliance with environmental legislation, and it's during these parliamentary hearings that we have to discuss all these issues of protection, of reproduction of natural resources. We need to get into the governance system in our country, because today we have the name of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, but we don't have the Ministry of Natural Resources to implement integrated management of all natural resources. So, honourable national MPs, I support this bill and I point out that it only solves the local problem is the problem of the activities of the State Protection Service of the natural-intelligence fund. For there is a ministry, and there is no authority. That's what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, consider the draft Act amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences. The decision will be decided on the day of the vote. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the harmonization of the rules of the basic laws on privatization with those of the Ukrainian Act on the State Privatisation Program. The reporter is head of the State Property Fund Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to what we're looking at. We're looking at partial changes to the laws, so let's talk about the dry room, not the things that hurt our soul. We need to consider all the issues of the meeting schedule today. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich, briefly, if possible, about the essence of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are looking at changes caused by the need to provide the National Privatisation Programme with more effective regulation of privatization processes and to address the current issues of property rights, to improve the preparation process, to conduct competitions, to open trades and to sell enterprises that are strategic for the economy and security of the state. The project is intended to amend Ukraine's laws on privatization of state property and on privatization of small state-owned enterprises (small privatization) in order to harmonize the rules of basic privatization laws with those of the State Privatization Programme Act. The proposed project provides for a few other approaches to privatization methods that will allow for a substantial expansion of potential buyers, and sets out the characteristics of changes in the terms and conditions of sale of the privatisation object as part of a reduction in its initial price in the event of a reopening of an open-trade auction. [[contest]] The proposals of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee for the identification and compilation of lists of enterprises that hold monopoly positions in certain markets and that are privatized in agreement with the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine have been taken into account, and the standards for the publication of information on the terms and conditions of the sale and the results of the privatisation of the object have been clarified. In addition, new rules have been proposed regarding competitions and open trades when one participant participates in open-trade competitions. The transfer of ownership functions of state-owned enterprises from the authority that managed the property of such an enterprise to the public privatization bodies is scheduled to take place on a monthly basis after publication in the public authorities of the privatisation list of sites subject to privatization, which will enable public privatization bodies to make decisions that are effectively linked to the process of privatization of state property. The adoption of Ukraine's draft law on amending and supplementing certain Ukrainian laws will contribute to improving the ways of privatization, enhancing the effectiveness of the sale of enterprises that are strategically important to the economy and security of the State or have a monopoly on the public market of the goods and services concerned, ensuring the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act and the State Privatisation Programme in part of the coming costs of privatization. I'm short.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, if there is a question, please sign in. Five minutes to ask. Light up on the board. National MP Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u48	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Alexander Mikolaiovich, if you believe the explanatory note of the Cabinet of Ministers, the author of the bill, is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers and the bill you report provides for appropriate changes to be made in order to ensure the implementation of the State's privatisation programme for 2000-2002. I mean, what am I leading to? Should we adopt a law on a program that ends literally in 20 days? We can't even physically accept it, because today it's just being discussed, Thursday on the first reading, then the second reading, then it's going to be signed by the President, and the State Privatization Program 2002 is over in 15-20 days. Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u49	Thank you for asking. The fact is that the State privatization programme for 2000-2002 is in place until the adoption of a new privatization programme. So it doesn't end this year. If the Supreme Council adopts a new program, then the previous one loses action. In addition, all of these laws are regulated by a new privatization programme developed by the Fund and submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why there'll be no problems. There won't be any colossals.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u50	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u51	Alexander Mikhailovich, do these changes provide for laws that warn him of artificial bankruptcy, which is being implemented in some businesses today, leads him to the fact that he is at a loss for small money?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u52	These rules address some of the questions of privatization, they don't apply to the question you ask. But they will be settled in the new privatization programme, which is prepared by the fund. There is a special chapter on prevention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u53	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u54	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, you propose to include, on behalf of the government, a few standards for making changes. In particular, you would like to make changes to article 16 - “Sales of objects at an open - auction auction. ” You know what's going on right now, actually, the auction and your position, and this very hour and this very day. The auction between the majority. But I do have a question before, is it going to lead to what you're suggesting about the change in the direction of the downsizing of the original price, the abuse and under-receiving of the State budget's projected assets? How can we prevent this from being misused in privatization? What should we do? That's given that, of course, your position at the auction isn't going to be sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u55	These laws, like the previous ones relating to legal privatization, cannot be sold at no cost. First of all, the price decrease applies only to reselling at the auction. Secondly, there's all equal to the lower price limit below which the fund has no right to sell. I want to assure you that the fund hasn't sold at low prices in the last few years. Now the problem is quite different: at the prices offered by the fund to sell its objects, there is no desire to buy them. In other alienation procedures, which are almost non-legally privatized, there are such cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u56	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u57	Thank you. Kirilchuk, Volin, block of Yulia Timoshenko Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, the privatization process has already taken on enormous momentum, sold very much state property, and the great, great losses that have been caused to the state. And it is because the sales do not later meet the conditions required by the law. And it's in the budget every year billions of losses, non-refundables, even from the fate that remains. How can we put order in these matters?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u58	Well, thank you for asking, but it's about a wider circle of problems than what I'm reporting today. I will try to report on all these questions on Friday at the fund’s report. And I want to assure you that there are no major losses in the privatization process, and vice versa. But where the contests are held, there are the terms of the contracts, or they are executed, or they are sued by the courts. And it is only today that we are procedurally returning 90 objects to state property through a judicial decision. That's why there's no big deal. There's a problem with other sales options: through certification auctions and stock markets, where there were no contracts and there were no terms. There, indeed, businesses are in a pitiful state. But to do that, we have prepared the Law on Reprivatization, which we will soon take to the Supreme Council, where all these issues will be settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u59	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Households, Property, and Investments, Oleg Anatoliyovich Krylov. Please, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u60	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Economic Policy and Management considered the bill, concluded that the comments and clarifications, the changes made by the Holding Fund were correct and that the first reading could be adopted so that it could be finalized and adopted mainly. So the findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office have the same view that the bill should be adopted. There is nothing revolutionary about the bill, there are little time-limits, privatization procedures, and they are normal. The view was expressed that no cost-cutting restrictions were necessary. Other comments were made, but they could all be changed, and all those changes could be made on second reading. So the Committee supports and requests adoption as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, you asked our friend a question. Please sign up, five minutes. On the board, please explain. National MP Matvienkov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u62	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Oleg Anatolyevich, I have two questions for you. Question one. What is the Committee's attitude towards changing the way monopolies are privatized? What used to be tracked, so to speak, and there was some kind of structure, so far it's moving on to the agreement between the Antimonopoly Committee and the Property Fund. What is the degree of participation in this process, which enterprises are considered to be subject to this, so to speak, agreement between the two units? That's question number one. And question two. Please tell me this is the mechanism for lowering the start price, provided that one participant is the contest. The competition did not take place - 50 per cent lower starting price. Your attitude on this matter, and how was the committee's attitude? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u63	With regard to the participation of the Antimonopoly Committee in the privatization process. I think it's the right thing to do. The Committee believes that this is the right thing to do, too. As far as the price goes down. In the bill, you see a 30 per cent limit, that is, no more than 30 per cent on monopolies and 50 on strategic terms. Yeah? I believe that this restriction can be discussed. In the case of coal mines, if they are enterprises where huge debts are accumulated, what limitations may be placed. We must sell these enterprises in order to find effective owners. We all see that the State is an inefficient owner. And the longer the enterprise is managed by an inefficient owner, the less money we can raise. Therefore, the number one task is to privatize such enterprises as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u64	People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u65	Thank you. You know, now that there's a lot of, really, monopolists, clans that are very subtle in their business, the organization of their debt, artificial bankruptcy, and then they're privatizing, say, maybe this law is adopted in the first reading, and by the second reading, just predict the blocking of that artificial bankruptcy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u66	The fact that the bill has to be finalized for second reading is without a doubt. And there's already a point to be made. I don't want to just stop at first reading in detail. As far as restrictions are concerned. With regard to artificial bankruptcy, we now have about 10 amendments to the bankruptcy law. And they'll all listen. And unfortunately, there is a situation that is mutually exclusive. There are provisions that are normal, there are provisions that are not very good, there are provisions that have positives and negatives in them. And all of this will be discussed because my view is that the bankruptcy law that we now have in Ukraine is one of the best in the CIS. And it needs to be changed very carefully because the courts just started working with him, they just learned how to work. And by suspending privatization in every way possible, we can get a negative result.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u67	Mikola Budagyanz, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u68	Budagyans, People's Choice Group. Dear Oleg Anatolyovich, please tell me. I'm asking for your attention! Please tell me the answer to 2 questions. The first question is this. What is the point of privatizing successful enterprises? The schematics are known, you know. 90 per cent of the enterprises privatized have been lost. If there's profit in the business, why privatize it? And the second question. Why does the law not take into account the will of the labour force? The labour community stands aside, unable even to purchase anything, virtually under our law, which we have. Please answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u69	Well, with regard to the privatization of profitable enterprises, I believe that they should be privatized as long as they are profitable without waiting for them to be lost. As far as you are concerned, there are mechanisms for collective participation in this bill, as is done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u70	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. I think you are now. You two will have the opportunity to discuss this. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Let's move on to the discussion. If there is a wish, you can speak in the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, as always, the faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u71	For those who can't see, Carmazin is in front of you. "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear friends, the new six-year privatization programme, which is based on the principles of failed, failed privatisation experience in 2000-2002 and the approaches that have been, I mean, today we have as many as three laws that have a bearing on privatization, it certainly needs to be reviewed at a stage of approach at all. Because the sale of such systems, which ultimately provide the energy security of the state, is like a skynergo, and now you've all seen what this leads to, the sale of the skynergo. That's what I'm telling those who are now finishing up the sale of four more skynergos. Surrender! It's going to go to state anyway. Military objects of the oil and gas sector I'm talking to Leonid Danilovich. Leonide Danilovich, you've seen Putin eight times since the beginning of the year. Eight times! For the eighth time, taxpayers ’ money was spent on shipping there. Let's stop about privatizing the gas industry and the oil industry. Such defense objects, which will undoubtedly be privatized for foreign money directly or through our country’s so - called intermediaries, we have experience in the Donetsk region, which raises money into offshore areas and then returns in the form of foreign investment. This will lose control of important areas of national security if these objects are not sold out and destroyed at all. Because we need today to stop what's going on in the state when we're discussing these bills, and I'm talking to all the profiling committees that have something to do with it. I'm only quoting one letter. AOO Odescentralit is one of the largest factories in Odessa, and the OOO employees are now requesting your participation in urgent wage payments. Debt - 2 million 411,000." And it is said that “our property and property of the State, whose share was 69.91 per cent, was unlawfully transferred by the decision of the Odessa Regional Economic Court, Judge Prodajevich, Baharev, the Arbitral Governor of Grib, to private hands. After the end of the world agreement, the Geneva Recreational Base was sold by a Supreme Court decision of 27 May 2002, but the money from its sale was not directed towards payment of salary arrears.” And I have this kind of appeal, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, Hennady Andriyovich, to the crowd today, Alexander Mikolaiovich, from such privatization. Do we have to do something or not? Let us decide here and stop the sale of objects through the household courts, with which cooperation at the Fund is very well established today. I beg Pritika, if you don't resign, stop. Dmitri Mikitovich, stop your men.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u72	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u73	from the mass destruction of state property. We need to change our approach to privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u74	Yuri Anatolyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u75	I'm done. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u76	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u77	That's it, I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u78	The word is given to Cherniak. Vladimir Kirilovich. Black word, next one is Pavlovsky. Please follow the time limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u79	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The State Privatization Programme 2000-2002, with budget revenues, has not been implemented. Reasons: Imperfect ways of privatizing and acquiring significant amounts of government property outside the privatization process. My predecessor, Deputy Carmazin, has already pointed out that much of the property is owned by the courts of commerce, that is, there is a problem with the court of commerce, and through Easter, a structure created by the Ministry of Justice. And really, these processes need to be stopped, because the budget is not coming in. A new privatization programme for 2003-2008 is under preparation. But until we accept it, today's privatization program will be in place. So the task of the Supreme Council is to legislatively ensure privatization and to continuously improve ways of privatization. And from this point of view, I think we have reason to accept the proposed amendments to the bills. These changes are mature and are right. So I think that in the first reading we can accept and work on it further to the second reading. Now it's about the pain points. I've already called this property acquisition outside the privatization process. This is a property assessment problem that has not yet been solved. And objects are often sold at no cost. And there's, I think, some laziness. Where there is a price drop for an object, although there is a certain limit, it is still a problem that we should be careful to keep an eye on. Next, it's a problem of artificial bankruptcy, it's a novelty not of this law, it's other laws, but still, we have to think about it, because it's processes that have a lot of volume. And this is a problem of preprivatization of objects that have not been solved and that the State Property and Ministry Foundation has been working very badly on. And to sell the benefits, it takes minimal effort to prepare the enterprise for privatization. These questions, however, come to some extent to be the subject of the bill that is being proposed today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u80	Thank you. Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, members of the government! I want to turn to my colleague, King Oleg Anatolyovich, and correct that he agreed that he was making a strategic mistake, and that the young man might be able to correct himself. The problem is that they're not privatizing those that are profitable. The main goal of privatization, like Tetcher used to do in England, is to increase efficiency and create jobs. Give me some examples that you've privatized, and you've increased the efficiency of your work and the jobs you've created? Today, high technology has been discussed. Well, maybe one for all of Ukraine. So today, high technology was being talked about, the Biocerkow firm was privatizing, it had a piezoceramic technology, changed the profile, and now no business in Ukraine has this technology anymore, and Ukraine was the only one with the technology to complete the piezoceramics. So what do we get from this? Nothing. So there is. On the other hand, there is a lack of leadership in the state. And we have to learn in developed countries, and it says: there has to be leadership in the economy, in politics, in culture. He's not here. I mean, whose benefit are we working for? We are now coming to the point that imported goods have displaced the population of Ukraine, have already pushed 10 million abroad. And that's how we're going to get to zero. So here we are, we want to fight in this law against unscrupulous buyers, those who have privatized and shown that they are unhappy, and there is nothing we can do. Therefore, the Law on Reprivatization should be adopted immediately. He does not fulfill the conditions he took, take him back, not wait for him to go any further. So, Your Honor, we need to take privatization seriously, it's not a game, it's either self-disposal, or development. And to do that, it takes a lot more than privatization to be able to do that. And when the money disappears, we see it. Nothing. No country in the world has developed because of privatization. Because these costs should not go to food, but to development. And we don't know where, we don't know, off-shore. Therefore, it is necessary to add to this law immediately as the government's protocol commission: to immediately submit a law on reprivatisation in order to place privatization within a civilized framework and not to rush. Because Tetcher in England privatized 20 businesses in 10 years, not thousands in one year. That's why we have to go, stop. We, by the way, are now leaders in Europe at the level of the private sector. Where else can we go? So we need to pause and put privatization into place so that it can work for the state, not against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u82	The question is closed. Let's move on to the next one. The vote will take place on Thursday. Replica, Kings, please. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u83	As for what you say: few enterprises have proved their effectiveness since privatization. I was the head of the company, the Dnepropetrov paper factory. After privatization, after I became its leader, the number of workers increased by one and a half times and the number of products produced increased by five times. With regard to competition between public enterprises and private enterprises, shareholders, I do not object to that. We just went this way if we went through the Chinese version when we started structural. First a small business, then a medium business, then a big business privatization, then it made sense. And now we're going to have a public enterprise competing with a private enterprise the same. And I don't think public enterprises will stand for competition. Therefore, the sooner we privatize under these conditions, the more money we will receive in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u84	Here we go to the next question of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the principle of the selection of privatisation buyers. Reported the head of the State Property Fund, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich. I would like to remind you that we are looking at a reduced procedure, that is, no questions are asked to the reporters. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, you are being reviewed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. The project is based on the need to resolve the problems that arise in privatizing the most attractive objects. Imperfection of legislation limits the power of the Ukrainian State Property Fund to make decisions in the area of privatization that are most economically advantageous to the State. In this way, the Ukrainian State Property Fund is carrying out work to analyse the performance of contracts for the sale of privatization objects. The main purpose of such work is to apply to buyers who do not comply with the terms of contracts for the sale of sanctions in accordance with the privatisation legislation, including the dissolution or recognition of such contracts with the return of privatised property to the property of the State. Today, due to verifications of the performance of contracts, more than 90 privatisations are subject to a return to state ownership. Failure to meet the terms of the sales contracts in part of the fees for the acquisition of privatization, investment and other financial obligations does not give the foundation the basis for avoiding the further privatisation of buyers who have repeatedly failed to fulfil their obligations to the State. As a result, there are numerous court cases. Such a situation has led to a slowdown in the process of selling state property and receiving funds in a timely manner to the State Budget. With a view to avoiding similar situations, the State Property Fund, as a public policy body in the area of privatization of state property, proposes, at the legislative level, to establish restrictive rules for buyers of privatization objects regarding the non-participation of unsavory buyers who do not perform financial obligations under the contracts for the sale of privatization objects and the establishment of qualified requirements for industrial investors. I'm short. I'm asking you to support these legislative changes, these are the very questions that have been raised today in the questions of the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u86	Okay. We don't ask questions. This is a reduced procedure, we do not specify according to the Rules. Have a seat, please. Corresponding to King Oleg Antonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u87	Dear Gennady Andreevich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Economic Policy Committee has considered the bill. And the Cabinet of Ministers in this bill proposes to set a limit when the second and third times the same organization that has failed to fulfil its obligations has participated. We did not agree that the Cabinet of Ministers had proposed that this should be used for all enterprises. We all know that, in privatizing small facilities, enterprises that participate in privatization are very often approached by mediation organizations. An organization that has experience in the purchase of facilities at the holdmain Foundation. Thus, if the ultimate enterprise then abandons the facilities, the enterprise or the bank will then never be able to participate in the competition. And that's wrong. We'll get a chain of responsibility. If the entity that orders these services to the intermediary only meets the material requirements, the intermediary will already meet its licence and its legal personality. That's wrong, he'll have to reorganize a legal entity named after him, with a new charter to participate in the trade. Therefore, we believe that the bill can generally be adopted but limited to enterprises of strategic importance in the market and to monopolies. In general, a similar conclusion is similar to the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Scientific and Expert Apparatus. We believe that the bill can be adopted on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u88	Have a seat, please. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna. You don't? Vasil Yakovich, are you going to say something about this? Please. Turn on the loudspeaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u89	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to warn the deputies. When such a law is passed, we may be in such a situation. We now have so - called state enterprises that are handed over to someone in charge. I can give these examples. For example, a strategically important object has been transferred to the administration, as was highlighted here today as the Petrovsky plant in Dnipropetrovsk, or the Dryzhinsky plant in Dniprodjyrdynsk. They are passed on to some unknown people in the administration and to this day there are appointed directors, who have no bearing on who this enterprise belongs to, they have no responsibility whatsoever. And it's a state enterprise, but it's not fulfilling its obligations to pay the land tax on the city council. I've given these examples and I'm telling them, knowing that this is true, for example, in Dniprodjerk and Dnipropetrovsk. I mean, I want to warn you that we can adopt these laws, but we can all get into this situation where there's no state-owned enterprise, like there's no private property on this or any other enterprise, but they don't do the government's obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u90	Karmazin, please, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u91	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. The honourable national MPs, of course, have proposed amendments to the bill aimed at avoiding the privatization of unreliable buyers who will not be able to meet the privatisation conditions. Of course, the adoption of this bill will contribute to a more effective privatisation if it is effective at all, unless the approaches discussed here today are changed and the people's deputies are crying and shouting from place to place. I probably can't wait for justice, so I am. about privatization and otherwise because of the bankruptcy decision, I'm going to give you the people's pain from here, from the rostrum. So here I am facing the citizens' turnout with signatures, various signatures on the privatisation-banking of the ZAO "Ribzavod Wilkovo" by order of Judge Prodajvic. Arbitral director Charmonov has been appointed, who has a license to speak on behalf of Mr. Woodut. And that's what he's asking people to do. In cash: 10,000,600 grevens - for payment of his services, 16 200 - for payment of court services, 40,000 grevens - for payment to the security firm that was issued, that is, money was issued. However, when he received the money, he informed me that about $7 or $8,000 he would hand over to a judge of that kind because he demanded them for a successful settlement in the case and so forth." And today, as a national MP, more and more, only people are afraid to sign. People say, but change the approach system and, Mr. President, look who you're assigning as judges! But look what you're offered at the office. Why am I suggesting, let's pass the law on the President's office. And we're in charge of Medvedchuk's office as a subject. Whether there is a head of the Medvedchuk office or not, as long as there are such questions in the judicial system today, as long as there is such a judicial system, as long as it is wide. This is going to be a big deal, Bondar is going to be like this, and privatization is going to be done like this, because of bankruptcy, and it's not going to prove anything, it's not going to be able to sell anything unless there's an "incomplete". So, Your Honor, I propose this law as a whole, but it will not bring about any change. We need to change the system, both judicial and political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u92	Thank you. Have a seat. Black Vladimir Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u93	Dear National Deputies! The privatisation process in Ukraine is distorted, criminalized, we know many examples of scandalous privatization, so this bill needs to be adopted. I also share that view. Of course, we understand very well that he does not solve all the problems, that he is a palatifist, but this is a step in the right direction, the essence of which is to apply sanctions against unconscionable buyers. Privatization takes place under the conditions of privatization, and often after privatization the buyer does not fulfil these conditions. So he needs to know he's going to get sanctions. True, I wonder why the bill was so late. Alexander Mikolaiovich, where there was a fund, was clear. We have many examples that the buyer does not meet the conditions of privatization. And it's only now that we're looking at this question for some reason. Well, it's better late. I think that even more severe sanctions are needed, not just foreclosures, but fines are appropriate, material responsibility, financial responsibility in order not to be willing to participate in privatization and try to distort this process. I don't share the opinion of the committee that I belong to, as expressed by the MP of the Kings, that the law should apply only to strategic and monopolistic entities. I think to any enterprise, if there's a breach of conditions, this law should work. Although, of course, first of all, I agree with you about such enterprises. So I propose a bill to be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u94	Thank you. Semenuk Valentina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u95	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Hennady Andriyovich, first of all I want to ask: What gave rise to this problem? First of all, the adoption of the privatisation law in 2002-2003 showed that it was adopted not only with violations, but first of all, it established a legal coalition. It's a so-called strategic investor that no one knows about. And even the legal entity didn't write it down. But today there is a result of the birth of such a problem, many buyers who, after buying one object without fulfilling their investment obligations and failing to meet the terms of the contract, go over, buy another and without any responsibility. And of course, this law needs to be passed, to improve control of such unethical controllers. I think the State Property Fund in this part is right. But we have to write it out like our science department did today. It is more legal, accurate and appropriate today to bind both with the Civil Code and with the appropriate terminology provided for in this document. Secondly, what I would like to say is that today this problem has been brought about by the privatization program? First of all, because privatization was massively eliminated, and the number of objects was too large, and so they caught what they said could be captured without thinking about whether or not they would fulfil their obligations. That's two. And what I'm saying is, Hennaday Andriyovich, we're not gonna do anything with these exact lashes. Until it is accepted, once again, I have spoken here to the tenth of this rostrum, the law on the administration of public property objects, and what Deputy Shibko has said here, my colleague, and what the deputy representatives of the majority have said here, until the Cabinet of Ministers is responsible for one or the other subject, for its effectiveness in managing that the Cabinet of Ministers will be the manager or will select the managers for the administration of public property or shares in stock companies, until there is no such thing. As long as there is no law on the Cabinet of Ministers, where the Cabinet of Ministers will be clearly responsible for those enterprises that are in its treasury property, that is, without these documents, we will not do anything about it. Third, it's the adoption of a law on municipal property. The Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council held its meeting with the representatives of the deputy district councils. There was no representative in the area who would say, "Today self-government can't develop without a law on municipal property." Today we see that privatization has taken place, both district and district councils don't know who owns one or other object, who privatized it, who is responsible for those people who have been thrown out on the street, where the social sphere has been operating, why hasn't it been transferred so far? That's all we need. Not by touching holes, but by adopting a law on the administration of public property, the State Property Fund, the Cabinet of Ministers, municipal property, and, in particular, the law on reprivatization, from the first day of work. We'll never give order unless there's a smooth transfer of ownership unless there's investor control, unless there's control over that property on the part of the Supreme Council, on the part of the representative bodies, it's meant for the people's deputies. And the stretch will go on. That's why we, as representatives of the Socialist Party, are talking about changing the power system. Without a change of power, there will be no further step. Stretching will continue accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u96	Thank you. Rudzkowski Mikolaiovich. Out of the way. You don't? Okay. Consider this question. Well, please, please. Turn on the Rudkov microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u97	I'm going to propose a reduced procedure if we go: 2 in, 2 in. If all 4 goes, you don't have to waste time. If you don't mind, you have to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u98	That's right. Okay. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u99	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. However, I would like to draw the attention of my esteemed colleagues once again to the fact that we are becoming a system of infringement when we discuss matters, even more faithful in organizing the consideration. And such uncomplicated questions are about privatization, which is what we're talking about. We have clearly defined the Rules in Article 3.4. 1 that discussion of issues at the Supreme Council meeting includes: a report, a report, a co-report, a speech by the initiators and so forth, and presentations by representatives from each of the registered parliamentary groups and factions and so forth. So if there's no such speakers, the self-room cancels the discussion. However, such important issues cannot be discussed by means of a so - called, more faithful, abbreviated procedure. Because of article 3.4. 2 says that the decision on amendments, I stress, amendments to procedural matters and other directly mentioned in the Rules, after a brief discussion which includes. and it reads: statements by the initiators, a speech by the head or a representative of the main commission, statements by representatives of two MP factions to support or oppose support, clarification and announcement by the chairman of the discussion. This is going to be a shortened procedure. Let us, Hennadija Andriyovich and our distinguished colleagues, renounce such approaches and follow what is set forth in our Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u100	Thank you. So let's, first of all, the meetings, if there's a question, we've discussed them, we've made decisions here in the hall and we've moved on. Moreover, I can remind you, the Supreme Council decision of 08.02.2000, at the suggestion of the Ukrainian national deputies, that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that inclusion in the agenda can be taken without a report on them, questions and discussions. So these decisions are made by the MPs in the hall. Let us take a decision before we discuss these matters. If it's a reduced procedure, let's define. If it's full, let's think about it in full. And that's what we're talking about. So what's the problem here, Your Honor? We decide with you how we're going to look at it. There are no violations. If the decision is made differently in the room, we will act on this decision. Let's move on to the next question, 1303. Draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. Reported the deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Senich Pavel Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft Act amending the Law on Privatization of State Property in section 2 of Article 21 of this Act. What's the point of change? The existing law provides for a mechanism for payment in engagement or privatization with nonresidents, which provides that payments are made in the national currency. Next. The current State Budget Act 2002 provides for changes to this article in part that is paid in foreign currency for nonresidents. The year is over, and the State Budget Act will end. The National Bank has introduced amendments to the Law on State Privatisation, where we ask you to accept the changes that are in force today, i.e. payments by non-residents for foreign currency privatizations, or nationals, if this is done by reinvestment, i.e. repatriation of foreign investment revenues. What will it give us? First. There is a clear regulation for the privatisation of nonresident objects, and the investment accounts in the currency will receive funds from open privatization agencies. In turn, the Ministry of Finance will use them as debt repayments or current expenses for investments that will, in turn, exacerbate the burden, that is, the pressure of sudden currency yields to the currency market. To get a better understanding of this question, let me give you an example. Last year we had the privatisation of the Zaporozium Aluminum Combine, where suddenly 70 million dollars were thrown into the interbank market. This, in turn, resulted in an additional emission of more than 350 million dollars. You all know very well that these sudden discards of bracelets are not caused by the release of one product or another, and this is paid for objects of privatization. So we're proposing a mechanism that works today under the State Budget Act to transpose it into a profile law and use it further. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u102	Thank you. Are we on schedule, or are we on a full schedule? Okay. Rudzkowski, please. Answer the questions. Next Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u103	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. If you're the deputy head of the National Bank, you're saying that it affects the course when you throw it out on the interbank exchange, where the National Bank works and controls the situation, it affects the course, well that's funny for people in the hall. So you have to change jobs to say that. But I'm drawing your attention. Explain why you're proposing this law when we know that the interbank stock conversion is everyone who goes out to pay for the State Pension Fund 1 percent. If a foreigner who has invested money in Ukraine wants to buy an object, let him convert and pay in foreign currency. We should give priority to a Ukrainian buyer, an investor in this form at least to have the advantage of privatizing objects. We have to protect Ukrainians and Ukrainian businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u104	Thank you for asking. We have discussed this issue for a long time. The answer will be as follows. The retirement congregation you care about pays the buyer. Otherwise, if the privatization authorities, and then the Ministry of Finance, will use the currency they receive, that is to say, sell it, the pension assembly here will receive a total of 1 percent. He is not lost here, except if payments are made to the Ministry of Finance outside Ukraine. Otherwise, it is preserved. It's the interbank market, not the stock market. You know, if $70 million or $100 million goes out, this market isn't balanced, in which case the National Bank needs to get involved and buy into the reserve. But you have to understand very well that this waste of national currency is what it is? By producing products or previously created objects? Now it's not reinforced, and then other tools are included the next day going to sterilize money from the market, and it needs to be balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u105	We need a consultant to get Mikolayovich, because he's already telling the deputy to look for another job. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u106	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. In its time, the National Bank was the initiator of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on monetary regulation and monetary control, according to which the only means of payment in Ukraine is the currency of Ukraine. Why do you make the law, not the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, but this law, after all, you were the initiator in this regard. And the second question. Did you not calculate and calculate the total losses for the Pension Fund as a result of what the currency is going to go down? Have you calculated this option? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u107	I'm about to repeat myself and I'm going to say that this currency that doesn't go beyond Ukraine, and here it is injecting itself into the internal investment, it's all going to be implemented, and the income in the retirement congregation is going to be earned. Regarding changes to the law or the decree on monetary regulation, you know very well how it is being considered and we want to change it too.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u108	All right, Carmazine, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u109	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. The Honourable Reporter, introducing this project, Mr. Stelma, wrote that the draft bill would be presented by the Supreme Council of the Head of the National Bank of the Ukraine of Stelma. It's not on yet. For some reason he does not represent him today. You remember that a bill under number 7438 had already been introduced in the past, a similar project that had been rejected because, according to John Stepanovich Plush, there was no reason to push it. That's my question. Tell me, please, that's all that's bothering the National Bank today, that's the question -- what's the amount of money to count, what currency? Are there still serious issues in privatization that the National Bank has excited as a subject of the legislative initiative? Do you not see the problems and failures of privatization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u110	Thank you for asking, you have found it quite large and large. I want to do it in turn. First of all, I want to say that this is not a new norm that we're introducing right now, the norm is working, so today it's introduced by the State Budget Act for the current year. A similar norm has been corrected, put in place, and adopted in a second reading of the State Budget Act 2003. It's about the National Bank's excitement. Of course, the currency market is constantly needed and the levers of the impact on the closing of the daily currency market are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u111	Where's Carmazin? Please. Have a seat, please. You had a question, didn't you, Yuri Anatolyovich? All of it. Kings. Kings, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u112	Dear Gennady Andreevich! Deputies! Indeed, the draft does not matter significantly to the economy of the country, to privatization and to the policies of Natzbank. So the committee has considered the bill. We found nothing wrong with the fact that the currency, the investor that will come to Ukraine, and now imagine the situation, if ten of these investors, they all have to make a contribution to participate in the competition, to unconvent the currency, to pay all the necessary fees, and then only one of them will win. The rest of you will come back to the convention by losing the money that's gone. I mean, from the investor's point of view, we're improving the situation. And it's hard not to accept that. From another point of view, I have another position to understand that we used to make all of the foreign investors buy just for a bracelet. The bill proposes to force purchases only for dollars. So I think our committee's position is right to make a choice so that the investor can buy either by the bracelets or by the dollars. So that's the position of the committee. It's either the bracelets or the dollars. If an investor has set up a bracelet in Ukraine, if he has earned it here, if he has declared the money, let him buy the bracelets, if you have to pay for the dollars. Thus, the position of the Analytical Authority is the same as that of the scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council, as well as the committee that the bill can be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u113	You all have it, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u114	Please accept with the reservation of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u115	Karmazin Yuri Anatolyevich has no questions? Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u116	Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear national MPs, distinguished bankers, respected our poor citizens, I appeal to you: Who will benefit from this law? I thank the King for saying on behalf of the committee that he does not see much benefit. He just said that the bill doesn't matter. If it does not, why do we kill the order of the day with it? We have two governments in our country. One of the chiefs is the President's Administration. We don't put this in the agenda, and here we put this little thing. So, dear friends, I'm asking a broader question: Who is not interested in the country in getting the dollar expelled from the state? Let it lie in the National Bank, but the free movement of it across the state has to be limited, it's clear that if we're experiencing, we're in pain for this economy. Does this bill contribute to this or not? Here's a question, a big question. Therefore, from the perspective of the law, it is not appropriate to restrict the use by buyers, foreign investors on the payment of the state currency of Ukraine only on the condition of reinvestment, since these buyers may own either the freely converted currency or the currency of Ukraine, which they do not receive as incomes from investment activities in Ukraine. But it is important for us to ensure the interests of the State. So I think it's inappropriate to make a recalculation into a foreign currency of the value acquired in the process of privatizing state property on a foreign currency day. And they need to be able to pay both in foreign currency and in Ukraine’s currency. The recalculation into a foreign currency of the value acquired in the privatisation process, I think, should be made at the rate of the date of the contract of sale, because if we do it on the day of actual payment, the course can change significantly, and it should be stamped on the day of the contract of sale. Well, the question to the National Bank is, please, any of you give an answer when we provide the free convertibility of the Ukrainian currency of the bracelet, how much is it going to be in that surrogate currency, and how much are we going to have that kind of "half"? And that's why we have half a surrogate state, half a surrogate leadership, and instead of a government, we have a similar state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u117	Follow the rules. Please, Black Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, the bill doesn't matter, so it needs to be accepted. Legislation that is essential is generally not necessary because it can cause great harm. Regarding the substance of the bill. Which currency should account for privatization costs. In that currency they're paying for privatization. There's no question. Why throw yourself from one extreme to another? So it's written that only in nationals, now let's write what's in foreign. It's an artificial problem. I propose to adopt a bill in the first reading because, in fact, the issue of currency exists, but in the process of preparing for the second reading, write: both in national currency, in bracelets, and in free convertible currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u119	Thank you. Please turn on Bondar's microphone, head of the holding fund. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give some explanation for the law that is being passed by the National Bank. We have repeatedly explained to the National Bank that in this way the problem is not solved by the National Bank. Why? Well, first of all, the fund has always acted in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers decree, which provided for the only means of paying the bracelet, and that's why we only accepted the bracelets. We have technical problems opening currency accounts, getting Nazbank's licenses, and everything else that makes it difficult to work. But the problem is quite different. We haven't had cases in Ukraine where non-residents bought privatization objects -- that's the main thing. The example that Nazbank brought to ZALK, Autowaz Invest, registered a legal person in Ukraine, used it to buy objects and accounts. So he was not subject to these changes. And after ZALCO, there was another situation that Natzbank insisted that the conversion take place through Nazbank. So you have to write that all of the currency spending is in the calculation. The conversion through Natzbank is done regardless of this resident, a non-resident. In other cases, when nonresidents directly purchased state property, there was little. What does this have to do with anything? This has to do with the fact that a nonresident’s participation in privatization requires a license from a Russian bank, a tax payment, and an increase in the cost of the object’s fees.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u121	Okay. Thank you. The question is closed. The vote will take place on Thursday. We turn to the next issue of 1266, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers' Liabilities to Budgets and State Trust Funds. National deputy Leonid Mikhailovich Černovecki, reported. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u122	Honourable Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies. Czernovetskie Leonid Mihajlović, 212 constituency, Kharkovsky and Darnicki regions of the city of Kiev. First of all, I want to tell you that all of my bills, all of them without exception, because I am a representative of the part of the population of Ukraine that creates jobs, are aimed only at making such jobs more and thus at filling the budget of Ukraine and paying pensions, salaries and not at the level of poverty in which they are paid today. And in this sense, I have absolutely nothing to discuss, because in this case, I would like to draw your attention to the bill to see about payment systems and the transfer of Ukraine's money, which has been plagued by a tedious misunderstanding. In the past Parliament, we have finally decided that the unacceptable write-off of money is a major harm to the Ukrainian economy, because an unacceptable magazine, which is nowhere in the world, can destroy any enterprise. And I assure you that thousands of enterprises have died and millions of workers have lost their jobs since the last Parliament passed the bill. In this case, I merely propose that one of the rules of this law be brought into line with the laws adopted in the past Parliament and that it is final and irreversible to say once again that there is no unacceptable write-off in Ukraine of money from those who feed Ukraine today, because it is indeed those people that we could applaud every day. They work and create jobs, pay for pension funds and so on. I don't have any other bills. In general, I do not know what to discuss here, because there is really no question in my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u123	Is there a question for Leonid Mikhailovich? No questions asked. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u124	Leonide Mikhailovich, I'm following up on your titanium legislative work, you've submitted several, in my opinion, very relevant bills for which I personally voted. But the Supreme Council didn't support you. I think the fate of this bill will support it. But still, why do you think you're not going to get support in the session room, and what do you have to do to get support?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u125	I did not hesitate to support you in your actions, Mr. Cherniak of the city of Kiev, I do respect you, even though we did not meet after that. That's the coolest question you could ask. I am horrified that we have not voted in favour of the Amnesty of Capital Bill. And there are two parts of Parliament that generally perceive everything I say as, you know, a part Communist is like Lenin on a bourgeoisie -- a view of each other. I mean, there are MPs who have a problem dividing deputies into enemies of the people and friends of the people. But I still love communists terribly, even though they vote cattle and there's nothing I can do about it. They overturned the bill like many others. I'm the second on the list of MPs to submit the largest number of drafts. And since I have time now, I want to tell you the amazing thing, especially the part that is voting against my bills. I served them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u126	Leonid Mikhailovich, that's not necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u127	I'm already a member of the 3rd Parliament. They laughed in the past Parliament, didn't they? They laughed after we got here. 18 people voted in favour of the law where it was proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u128	That's what they're crying about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u129	cancel the value added tax. In the past Parliament, there were only 18 votes to support Brodsky's law. In this House, I passed this bill if you don't vote for it. I have more than one bill. Vote! And the people of Ukraine will live well! And communists and everyone else!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u130	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u131	Because I have no special interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u132	The questions and answers were very concise. There's no time left.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u133	Leonid Mikhailovich! I wasn't your confidant. I won't praise you. Please don't praise me. I have a specific question about this bill. Now, there's a paradox in the districts where court fees don't go into effect because it comes into force, so-called, tax evasion. You know this confrontation: on the one hand, people seem to have money on their hands, they have to pay for it, on the other hand, tax administration goes into action, and money doesn't go into the budget, and money doesn't go in and people go in and people go in and ask people to figure it out. I'm asking you about your Bill 1266. Does it unlock this legal nonsense?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u134	I was against this legal nonsense seven years ago. So tomorrow my tax bill will be registered. Support him. This bill does not provide for a tax guarantee, which is also a nonsensus. I completely agree with you. But the problem is how I'm perceived. I'm not lobbying anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u135	Right, right. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u136	Yes, it's not the subject of this law. Well, that's important, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u137	Turn on Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u138	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter Leonid Mikhailovich, you know that I was in charge of eliminating VAT as a class and it needs to be eliminated. Does this law have anything to do with your appointment to Yuri Fedorovich Kravchenk as chief tax collector of the country? Don't you think it's possible for two readings to adopt this law -- first and second, as a law? And won't that bring about an increase in the corruption of the courts, which is already at a rather serious level, instead of controlling authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u139	Well, this law is against corruption, it's obvious, there's no problem here. As far as courts and corruption are concerned in courts and other organs and public authorities and, including in parament and everywhere, it is also obvious. Well, I don't know how to answer that. My laws kick the ground out of corruption. No unacceptable write-offs, no corruption, no bribes, go to court, fight in court and solve the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u140	Right, right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u141	What about the bribes in court? My bill should be given to them next.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u142	Okay, okay. Thank you. Please sit down, Leonid Mikhailovich. From the Puzakov Committee, please. Short cut, short cut.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u143	Dear national deputies, from the committee. At a meeting of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking, a draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act "to order the payment of taxpayers' obligations to budgets and State trust funds" introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Leonid Mikhajlovich. The committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u144	Thank you. No questions? Have a seat, please. Who insists? Carmazine. Jury Anatolyovich, obviously, may not have to discuss the matter. Carmazine's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u145	Thank you, I signed up. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u146	We continue our work for 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u147	"Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked in vain a question, but I have not received an answer to that question, whether this bill is related to the appointment of Yuri Fedorovich Kravchenka as the country’s chief tax collector. And I'm addressing all the businessmen in this country, don't be afraid, they're afraid of you. There's no need to be afraid. It's okay. We need to adopt the bill they've just proposed, and everything will be fine. And then through trial, you can restore your rights. And this bill will certainly be in the interests of society, absolutely in the interests of society. It will help prevent the tax authorities from withdrawing money from taxpayers ’ accounts to the court’s consideration of the matter in fact and the decision to make. Because the tax liability will be deemed to be inconsistent. Now, when a tax payer is brought before a court for an invalid decision of the supervisory authorities, this tax obligation is considered to be agreed upon, thus allowing for the collection of charges for the movement of taxpayers prior to the conclusion of the court’s case. And that means you're going to make it up to them. And I'm going to tell you that today, three years of government structure, it won't. Perhaps we should be fooled by the public, the minister of justice, that the government structures cannot decide, and how can we compensate for the damage caused by illegal acts? Three years when decisions are made with the name of Ukraine, decisions are made by the government? Is that a decision to be made? Smart faces are made, face - to - face, eyeglasses are put on, and they say: Can Ukraine’s decision be made or not? But we need to transplant everyone already because they don't. For three years, decisions with the name of Ukraine have not been implemented, and today, when considering the budget, we need to anticipate and protect our businesses. For this adoption of this law immediately in two readings, the proposal I ask to take into account my committee, immediately in two readings as a law, and for the government to order compensation to citizens and legal persons for the damage that has been and for which there is a decision taken by the courts on behalf of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u148	Have a seat, please. Final word to the initiator of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u149	Thanks to Chernewsky for making such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u150	The initiator of the draft law, Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u151	I'm just suggesting not on the first reading is provocation. What's the reading? You've eliminated this problem in the past Parliament. Take it right away, and all of a sudden, there's one word that changes. Vote, yes. Yeah, and say what I did right, except that I'm the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u152	The question is closed, and the vote will take place on Thursday. Here's the question: a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with amendments to Ukraine's Criminal Procedure Code. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Aleksandar Volodymyrovich will report. We continue our work for 15 minutes, Your Honor. Yeah, we'll get there, let's see. That's the last question of the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs! This bill is designed to eliminate the conflicts that today are between the various laws of Ukraine and other legislative acts after the entry into force of the amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which was adopted in this Chamber on June 21, 2001, when the first step of the small judicial reform was carried out. And today, the Criminal Procedure Code provides for a number of substantial changes to other legislative acts, such as custody, detention, detention of persons suspected of committing a crime, residence permits or other possession of a person, review, search, arrest for correspondence, and the transition to the imposition of an appeal and case-related complaint, since there has been an order of review in order that, after the adoption of the Judicial Act, we have been eliminated in Ukraine. Ukraine’s draft Law consists of two parts. The first section provides for amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, as well as to Ukraine's laws on the prosecution, on the lawyer's office, on the previous imprisonment, on the operational and search activities, on the procedure for compensation for damages caused by the citizen's illegal activities by the authorities of knowledge, prior investigation, the prosecutor's office and the court, as well as on the law on measures to combat the illicit circulation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors. And the second chapter provides for the order of validity of this bill. The bill amends chapter 2, paragraph 21, of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, because it was approved earlier. And it was predicted that the ruling of the court on matters provided for under the circumstances that I had made the list was not an accusation, but could be challenged on general grounds. Since there is no judicial supervision at present, there is a situation where this resolution cannot be in any way accused or altered. It is therefore proposed that we anticipate, as is the case today in the Criminal Procedure Code of Accusation of Judgments, Judgments and Resolutions in the Appeals and Constitutional Order. With a view to bringing the criminal procedure code of Ukraine into line with the first part of article 277 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which confers the right of the prosecutor to amend the person indicted before the completion of the trial, article 36 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act proposes to supplement part 3 of the corresponding right of the prosecutor in view of the fact that the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code was amended to the 48th article that gave the defence attorney the right to question citizens when collecting information about the facts that could be used as evidence in the case, there was a need to amend the relevant articles on the lawyer, which defined the professional rights and duties of the lawyer. In view of the repeal of the Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of the Public Prosecutor's Institute, which is now not provided for in the Code of Procedure, the draft also amends the 7th article of the Law on Lawyers. In addition, the draft law also changes part of the Law on Lawyers, which refers to the definition of circumstances that exclude participation in the defence case. In view of the adoption of the new Criminal Code on 5 April 2001, which, unlike the previous edition of 1961, clearly defines crimes depending on the degree of severity of which particular serious crimes have been identified by a species and makes appropriate changes to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, there is a need to make the changes noted also before the 8th, 9th article of the Operational Investigation Act. The proposed draft also proposes to amend article 20 of the Pre-Prisonment Act by bringing it into line with article 156 of the Criminal Procedure Code, section 7 and article 8 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which, if the term of custody is terminated as a precautionary measure provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, if the term is not continued in the established Code of Conduct, the authority of inquiry, investigator or prosecutor is obliged to immediately release the person from custody. We suggest that this should also be introduced into this law. In addition, Ukraine's Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code has introduced an appeal and cassational indictment of sentences, regulations and approval in accordance with all the other legislative acts that we have adopted in Ukraine with the reform of the judicial system. Therefore, we also propose this to be foreseen in the Law on the Treatment of Damage Caused to Citizens by the Illegal Activities of the Intelligence, Previous Investigation, Prosecutor's Office and Court, as well as in the Act on Measures against the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors, which contains a shipment of old order that worked before it. Furthermore, the bill does not require any additional cost or other structural action, it simply brings Ukraine's laws into line with the new Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which was approved in this Hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u154	Is there a question for Alexander Volodymyrovich? Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u155	Alexander Volodymyrovich! Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I have a question for you in the form of this bill. Please tell me if two people can be convicted of damage to the household at 85 dollars for six years of imprisonment on condition. That one month's stay at his convict's facilities costs the state 120 dollars? [[Today, the director of the enforcement service here spoke.]] And they're both 85. And for each of these 85 bracelets, he got six years of strong and strict regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u156	Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u157	You tell me, you're a smart man, you're a smart minister, so you can have a criminal code like that?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u158	Sergei Ivanovich, in this case, I think it's not about the Criminal Code, it's about the judge who named the Ukrainian State. And what we have today is a real problem with a body that has a very large mandate to decide human fate and not always, let us put it mildly, responsibly and qualifiedly to carry out its duties. So what you are stating is exactly how critical it is to be of those whom the State trusts in doing human destiny on its behalf.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u159	Alexander Volodymyrovich, let's solve this question in this way. If it's a specific question and it's a specific person or people in charge of the matter, let's make your request, come to me, let's find out. If there's a verdict for six years for these 85 bucks, well. Okay. Come on, let's find out. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u160	School Andrew, Yulia Timoshenko block, UNA UNSO political party I'd like to go back to this bill that we're looking at right now. Here this bill is passed, later when it becomes law, the right of the prosecutor to change the measure of precautionary action to involve the trial. When it comes to mitigation, that is one thing, the law permits the prosecutor to change the measure of precaution to the person who is on the sign. Yes or no, do you know that this law provides for your own view of it, because in principle it should not be?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u161	I didn't know where you found the deterioration of the situation, because it's where the amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Act are going, it's about the prosecutor's right to go before the trial is concluded to change the person's mind, not the precautionary action. A precaution is taken by a court of law. No, no, it's completely separate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u162	Thank you, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u164	A member of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Alexiyuk, reports. Please, Sergey Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u165	Sergei Alexiyuk, Block "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Movement. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement has considered the bill and recommends that the Supreme Council consider the bill in the first reading and accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u166	Thank you. No questions? Have a seat, please. Yes, Zebravski. After Carmazin, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u167	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. The honourable national MPs who are in this room, I understand that this is the most intellectual potential of the state that remains in this room. At the head of the chairman. I don't want to say anything about those who share positions right now. It's totally normal, but I just said that intellectual potential is sitting right here in the hall. Today is actually a very serious step proposed by the minister of justice, a very serious one. Making changes to the Ukrainian Law on Lawyers, which gives a lawyer the right to question citizens and then use them as evidence, and it wanted to be used as evidence, and it would be an extraordinary approach to Europe and to the civilized world. But unfortunately, the first part is, and, well, about the evidence, we don't write anything in the Criminal Procedure Code. [[It's a change in the article in article 6 on surveying, on surveying citizens.]] Yeah, maybe we'll do it on the second reading and we'll add this because it's got to be evidence, or it's losing all meaning. In the end, it must be a very serious matter to bring about the fact that the Prosecutor’s Law imposes the right of the Prosecutor to change the person accused during the trial. But maybe we should also specify which way to change, the side of decrease, or the side of increase. It's probably just to the side of the decrease. Probably. And that comes out of the Constitution, article 22 of the Constitution. Such warnings should be recorded in this law, and therefore this law should definitely go beyond the honorable committee that has now been reported on issues of legislative security and law enforcement. Of course, this bill is to be passed through the Committee on Legal Policy. But in general, the changes that are being proposed, including the charges and the approval of the court, must be accepted, so that there is not what the judge of the district court says: "And my approval is final, the charge is not admissible." And this nonsense is still being written today. What's the final? But let them read the direct standard of the Constitution. All decisions can be appealed, and appeals can be made. Yes or no? Yes. Once there is such a right under the Constitution, it must be implemented. And today we are talking about a massive violation of the rights of citizens by the judges of the district courts, the local courts. Massive disorder. I'm addressing the new Supreme Court head, so let's get this process fixed immediately so that the constitutional standards are implemented here. And I'm going to the Minister of Justice, I'm asking you to help with the legislation, help with that, because it's actually de jure so the Constitution, and de facto so. Thank you for your attention. But I had to express these expectations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u168	It's all clear. Are you insisting on school Andry Volodymyrovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u169	Dear colleagues! You know, I get the impression that our entire Supreme Council is a little intruding on Mr. Carmazin's work, so active we have a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u170	There is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u171	And what I'm saying is that eventually its activity is productive because the actual observations were absolutely right and I'm going to tell you what the prosecutor's office allows even now without amending the Prosecutor's Office Act I'm setting an example for everyone on the well-known case on March 9th. He stands up as the attorney general in the capacity of the Lieutenant Colonel of Justice and says that this case is automatically from the code of the 1960s, this charge in the 71 car case is automatically translated into the case, according to article 294. Automatic. He had been persuading the judge for a long time, listening to him and wanting to believe him, but here, as the then national deputy Shishkin was present, he failed to do so. I mean, what kind of automatism? If we now give the prosecutor the right not to soften her work, but to work so that she can in the power of the court change the charges in any form, in any form, in any form, in any form, in any form, in terms of reinforcement, and in order to soften her, believe me, the prosecutor will stand up and say, you know, here we're wrong, we have to give 15 years and that's it. I mean, it's going to work very hard, so I was only talking about the first reading on the committee. Gentlemen, just the first reading. A clear explanation, a clear set of regulations, should be made, since the prosecutor’s office today is very often not as competent as you would like to see it. When, again, I bring up this example when the prosecutor rises up and says, you know, the prosecution has shown that there is no second part of article 71, but the prosecution has investigated that there are other signs of the second part. Question: "What are the other signs?" It is clearly regulated by the Supreme Court Plenary that these other signs simply do not exist. He says they exist, and that's why we have to judge people for the second part of article 71 from 3 to 10 years, although before that he clearly argued that others did. What can happen is severe material damage and trauma of average gravity is no less than two. To a court that had no trauma of average gravity, no property losses were incurred, property damage was also proved, since no normal expertise was carried out, what remained? If we give the prosecution that opportunity, we don't have a clear framework, believe me, we're going to have all of the sentences with an indictment. And that's 12 years total for 80 dollars -- that's going to be a normal thing to do. And there's no such thing. Of course, there's not much left, but the asset, we don't have the right to miss this law for second reading without these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m1.u172	Question completed. The decision will take place on the day of the vote. Today we've exhausted the entire agenda. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. The meetings will be scheduled for tomorrow. Happy birthday.
