ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. 365 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy Chelombite Igor Vasilovich. Let us greet him, wish him happiness, health, and success. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u2	I'm following the Rules. First of all, it is suggested that the request be made by the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, please turn on the mic of Matthew Valentin Grigorovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u3	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Gennady Andryovich! Dear colleagues! Taking into account that tens of thousands of our electorate gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council's house today, there is a request to sound the area. That's the first one. The other one. On behalf of our faction, I would like to ask: Is the agreement reached earlier today on direct broadcasting of plenary sessions being implemented? Is there a broadcast now, especially on Ukrainian radio, on the first program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u4	As far as the broadcast is concerned, everything is going on according to the Order on the Order of Enlightenment of the Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fourth Call, which we have adopted. It's all there is. As far as the area is concerned. No objections to MPs? Okay. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Mikoli Bagraeva is the prime minister of Ukraine for the financing of the boiler building in the city of Tsurupinsk Herson. Please vote for the direction. "To" - 125. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine: About the unsatisfactory implementation by the authorities of the executive branch of the Kirovograd of the Law on Metallurgy. I'd like to vote on the orientation. Please make up your mind. "To" - 169. Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the halting of the drilling of artesian wells in the village of the Ružin region of Žitomir. Please make up your mind. "For" - 139. Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Integrated Programme for the Conservation and Reproduction of the Historical Architectural Environment of Zovkvi. Please vote. "For" - 148. Decision taken. Catherine Samuelk, Anatolia Orzhachowski, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the boiler building in the city of Tsurupinsk Herson. Vote. "For" - 162. Decision taken. Mikoli Noshchenka and Gregory Dasutin -- to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine -- on the formation of prices for arable crops and bringing them into line with the purchase prices for grain. Please vote. "For" - 219. Decision taken. Leonidas Czernovetskow - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of compliance with current legislation in the activities of the Kiivenergo Energy Share Company. Turn on the system. I'd like to vote on the orientation. Please make up your mind. "To" - 103. Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on gross violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine on the part of the Cherka District Attorney's Office. Please enable the system. "To" - 171. Decision taken. Jurya Solomatina - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of a consultant to the National Deputy of Ukraine to report his detention by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev. Turn on the system. "For" - 157. Decision taken. Romana Zvarič is with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the massive illegal logging in the Carpathians. Please vote. "For" - 254. Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine: on the improper conduct by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the verification of the facts referred to in the parliamentary request of 15 January this year regarding violations of the constitutional rights of the Ukrainian National Deputy for the first time called by Vladimir Slednev. Please vote. "To" - 160. Decision taken. Anatolia Moroz - to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction of the parliamentary request regarding the violation of the constitutional right of the resident of Tokmak Sibulatova to a fair trial. Please vote. "For" - 162. Decision taken. Jury Solomatina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the physical assault on the National Deputy of Ukraine of an unknown person during the extermination of a tent town on the streets of Bankov and Institutional on September 17th. Please make up your mind. "For" - 182. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakova, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on the critical environmental situation at the Heivoron Water Refuge. Please vote. "For" - 204. Decision taken. Several announcements, distinguished national MPs. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Karatumanov Oleg Juriovich from the National Election and his membership in the Democratic Initiatives. The European Election Group is also authorized to represent the national deputies of the Ukraine of Pehoto Volodymyr Yuliyovich and Samofal Gennadija Grigorovovich. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Attorney General of Ukraine be heard about compliance with current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u5	Let's talk about it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't turn the hall into a playground, you don't have to do that. I propose to take the time, listen to the minister, the attorney general, and then use 45 minutes to speak from the factions. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] . We're following the Rules. Faction shows are 45 minutes. From the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko has the word Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u6	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] Dear friends! Today is not just a session, today's first plenary session after the action "Rise, Ukraine!"which aims to change the system of power, to carry out a fundamental political and economic reform in Ukraine and, as a first step, to remove Leonid Kuchma from power. Today's first plenary session, where you and I have to consider the first and foremost issue of the political situation in Ukraine -- the political situation that is being defined by the world as a crisis. And there is no need for the Presidential part of Parliament to pretend that nothing is happening. The main thing is that the minority, the absolute political minority, which has been completely ignored by society, has artificially created the majority and continues to govern Ukraine under the roof of President Kuchma. That is why we need to consider today not only the question of how things are today in Ukraine but also the question of how we can move forward. And it is in the draft decree that we are proposing that we consider the issue of the President's early elections and the removal of the President in the order of the impeachment, and also consider the situation in the force structures that, despite the citizens' peaceful conduct, they have virtually abandoned all the police forces against their citizens and, from September 16th to September 17 they have destroyed people who, without a weapon, peacefully wanted to wait for their so-called President. And so from the faction that I lead, from the party that I lead, from the parties that go to the bloc that I lead, I want to say that we will definitely not take part in any consideration of the draft laws, in any of the activities of the Supreme Council, because in the Supreme Council today the presidential majority and not the laws for the benefit of society will be adopted, and no budget will be adopted, which will really be for the benefit of society. All the laws that will be passed are lobbyist. Therefore, blocking the work of this Supreme Council is not at all a fear, but a need for society. So we need to consider the first question of the political situation in Ukraine with regard to the President's impeachment, the presidential election, the responsibility of the ministers for what happened from 16 to 17 September, the draft law on proportional elections, and until that happens, there can be no work of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u7	The word is given to the national deputy Kravchuk Leonid Makarovich. Please, Leonid Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u8	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs (Balgato-mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Dear National Deputies! Of course, we can agree with the opposition that the socio-economic and political situation in Ukraine is complex. And the use of epithets is already a matter for everyone. The height of words depends on the height of the culture. But that's not the point. The important thing is to change the situation for the better. In opposition, the only recipe is the President's fault, and he has to resign. (Cheering in the hall, applause.) Part of the hall says, "Get the fuck out of here!").
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u9	I beg of you, calm down, respectable! Don't turn the hall into a playground! What are you doing?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! It's so serious that you don't have to turn it into a show. If there's a show everywhere, we can't solve anything. I emphasize that you cannot attribute all problems and all the flaws to just one person. Just one example. Budget and tax laws. Is it not the main fault of Parliament that it has been unable to accept reasonable tax legislation for ten years? This task was decided by virtually all countries in the territory of the former Soviet Union, except us. This is where the main causes of budget failure and investment problems, including foreign ones, are also found. [[and so the low salaries of budget workers]] Of course, if the task is to find an extreme, why not blame the President for, say, growing up, as doctors say, male impotence and female frivolity say? I can see it's coming. A man with a mind to think. And when the issue is difficult, we need to think and decide, not all, and we need to blame everything. I say that before everyone has to be responsible, then the analysis of the situation will be more thorough and easier to determine what to do and who to do. It is not necessary to protect the President, it is protected by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, and they must also be observed by all, including opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u11	People don't want to, you say. I can't talk about the whole nation, and you can't talk about the whole nation. Let's really evaluate the situation. There is no need to sign up for the love of authority, but we need to make a real assessment of the situation. The main problem of power is in the socio-economic state of Ukraine. Has the situation worsened relatively since 1998 or not? I have to say, I didn't get any worse. Why is the question of the resignation of the President being so acute right now, about the early parliamentary elections? The answer is clear: You want to take power as soon as possible! Although this task is problematic, the authorities will choose, and whoever comes to the Olympics will say the Ukrainian people, they will say the Ukrainian elections. Wait, wait, wait, 2004 will come, you'll go to the polls. You can win, we'll respect you. If you can't win, we'll respect whoever wins. Therefore, there is no need to rush. I call on the opposition, all the national MPs: the Ukrainian people we have one, the Supreme Council is one, we have different opinions, but let's really evaluate the situation. I truly regret your efforts. I'm turning to the opposition. The president won't resign! There will be no early elections! [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, to live normally, to work until 2004, it is necessary to work together, to begin to form a parliamentary majority. Whoever wants to go, who doesn't want to go, it's his business. We need to start constitutional reform, we need to start solving the problems facing the people: adopting the budget, adopting tax legislation, and going to the elections in peace and harmony. I urge you to do so. Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't stop each other from speaking, then everyone will follow the rules. The word from the Company is given by Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u13	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! Dear voters gathered under the walls of the House of the Supreme Council today! On behalf of the Communist MP faction, on behalf of you, millions of our voters, I claim that Kuchma and his team no longer have a political basis, because today both the left forces and the centre and right forces have declared their firm, decisive disagreement with the existing criminal oligarchic regime. The government doesn't have a social base, it doesn't have the support of the people -- that's the main conclusion of the start of the All-Ukrainian campaign: Rise, Ukraine! [[Applause]] . But, figuratively speaking, at the height of the words of Mr. Kravczuk, the authorities have what they have stolen. And he keeps saying that -- that we're going to protect what we stole from our people. And let the people remain completely devastated by Ukraine and poverty! In our view, Ukraine's current power is being held only on a repressive apparatus, and in a society where tens of millions of people are destitute, people's anger has reached a critical point, and at any moment there may be social shock. The people demand that this cynical, anti-national, anti-democracy regime, built by Leonid Kuchma and his agents, resign! This is the main requirement of today's political moment in Ukraine. [[Applause]] September 16th, the All-Ukrainian protest "Rise, Ukraine!" against the ruling criminal oligarchic regime shuddered and united the whole country. Hundreds of thousands of men and women, young men, veterans of war and labor came out to the square of Ukraine’s cities, and the terrified authorities who did not expect such mass, such a combination of different political forces, people of different political views and religions, today are simply terrified. The basic requirement of the protestors of the Kuchma must repent of the deluded people and immediately resign from the post of head of state as the chief culprit of all the suffering of the people of Ukraine! [[Applause]] By the way, I'd like to go to the Attorney General's office. Yesterday, the meeting held by President Kuchma indicated that he was deliberately pursuing a policy to destroy Ukraine’s economic potential. He admitted yesterday that during the last two years under his patronage, Ukraine has been looting against the illegal privatization of Ukraine's main potentials. But instead of a dialogue with the people, there was a dirty, vile operation by the police force under cover of night, organized by the police and the authorities, which indicated that it was organized terror, aggression and repression against their own people. And this bloody slaughter is no longer just another illegal act of law enforcement, but a gross violation of the laws that we have enacted in the Supreme Council. Thus, the gang-criminal regime's actions in these days have fully exposed its criminal nature, finally turned into a fascist dictatorial junta. The people will certainly give a legal assessment of the criminal acts of the criminal regime and its satraps, and we are deeply convinced of this. And the people present at the Supreme Council’s house today are testifying that all of this is certain to happen. However, the temporarily ruling regime failed to instill fear in Ukraine. Moreover, by its actions, the regime has consolidated the nation, the people, and intensified the protest moods and actions. That is the testimony of today’s multi-million - dollar demonstration at the Supreme Council. For our part, we claim that our actions will continue to be adequate to the developments that are taking place, within the framework of the Constitution and the laws, which will be in the interests of the people of Ukraine. First of all, the parliamentary faction of the Ukrainian Company requires an immediate review of the critical, acute, extremely dangerous political situation in the country, and requires legislative regulation and compliance with the requirements contained in the decisions of the national assemblies of all countries. This is about determining the date of the presidential election for the term, considering the question of the President's impeachment procedure, making the necessary changes to the Constitution with regard to the transition from the Presidential-Parliamentary to the parliamentary-Presidential system of power and adopting a new law on the election of national MPs and deputies of councils of all levels on a proportionate basis. It is by addressing these very important and fundamental issues that will depend on our further action. We Communists, along with our people, the people of Ukraine, and we assure those who have come here today and those who have not been able to come but listen to us all over Ukraine: we will surely win, we must unite and be organized against this criminal authority! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I invite every speaker to follow the rules. The word is given to the national deputy of Saligin from the group "Democratic Initiatives". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u15	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[Election District 172, Kharkiv Region]] Dear colleagues! You and I, the legislators, are enacting laws, not to violate them, but to be enforced by all, and we are with you. When I think about it, it's hard for me to understand the exact part of the session room that makes our citizens ignore and violate the law. In the event of a misunderstanding between the different polar political forces, there is only one way -- the path of dialogue. Serious political, legal, economic problems are solved, not in areas, not in tent towns, but in parliaments. We can resolve pressing problems through the discussion, according to the Rules that we have accepted for ourselves. Everyone has the right to vote and vote. There's no other way. Have we used our opportunities to the full? Of course not. What does a part of the MP Corps do instead? Inciting people to clash with the police, to a bold failure to execute judgment. Who is being punished as a result? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Of course, the archers, these deluded average citizens, who our colleagues with the national MP's badges pushed to break the law. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u16	Please, calm down, please! What's going on?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u17	Where are some of the developed countries that have been repeatedly called upon to equalize themselves, to block traffic, and to paralyze the work of government and other government agencies? All the organizers of such an action would have been punished if the same had happened in any European country. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Constitution of Ukraine clearly states in article 15: "The State guarantees freedom of political activity not prohibited by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine." What happened on the night of September 16th to September 17th near the buildings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President's Administration, and the day before, has nothing to do with the rule of law. [[cancelled the evening edition of "Novin" on Ukrainian TV-1]] Therefore, the Democratic Initiative MP condemns such acts of opposition and sees nothing illegal in the actions of the police to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens, their security and their tranquillity. We would like to remind you that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has people who are bound by the current legislation to stand on the watch for civil peace and order. And they do it with honor. Enough to involve the power structures in political opposition. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Ministry of Internal Affairs is out of politics! Underlining: The Ministry of Internal Affairs is out of politics. Thank you for your attention. [[Part of the hall is chanting, "Damn!"]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? It's not a playground! You can't do that. The word is given by the Socialist Party’s Moroz Alexandre Alexandrovitch. Alexandre Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u19	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. I want to express my satisfaction at Saligh’s appearance here, and we finally saw his face, five years from now on in the rostrum. He knows how it is done abroad, but he needs to see what is done in Ukraine. The Socialist faction suggests that in the near future, a closed meeting of the Supreme Council, with the participation of the government and the President, should it not be able to impose its mandate until then to consider the issue of illicit arms trade from Ukraine. As in many other cases, the authorities try to deceive themselves by substituting the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the authority of Ukraine. But you can't hide your neck in a bag. Yesterday, British Prime Minister Tony Blair spoke in an interview about the deadly concern of Ukraine’s cooperation with some Middle Eastern countries. That's what the British weekly Observer writes about. The U.S. Department of State declares the same thing, and Congress will soon review the matter. We have no right to bury our heads in the sand because we are talking about the catastrophic consequences of sanctions violations, because this is a policy that our parliament cannot be apart from. An expert in the President's office's records confirmed that he agreed to the banned sale of the Colchug. Were there special technologies and materials involved? It's not secondary, because it's important who's responsible for the violation of UN sanctions, whether they're individual officials or the state is responsible? It's a special question for us because it's not about trade, it's about stealing weapons. Because of the famous 100 million who received the Rings, there's nothing in the budget, just like the nuclear warheads that were devoted to Russia. More than $3 billion was placed in the pockets of specific people. Some are now in foreign prisons, while others are on Bank Street. And that amount is an annual pension for all pensioners in Ukraine. And nothing to say: there's no money. You don't have to steal. Money is for everything. That's why the opposition is seeking a change of power starting with the President's early reelection. Society should not be held accountable for the sins of rulers. This was the subject of all the multi-tousal meetings with the citizens of the Rise, Ukraine campaign! This is required by thousands of citizens now standing under the walls of the Supreme Council. They're afraid to hear from the regime's servants. That is why the opposition was denied the constitutional right to inform people on television yesterday. In doing so, authority, not us, provokes people to oppose. But she will not be helped by her vests and shields, nor by her lies and silences! Good surely will prevail! In view of what has been said and taking into account hundreds of other arguments, the faction insists on hearing the very first question of the political situation in Ukraine, not to overwhelm the problem that it is facing today. We have prepared and registered the necessary documents. They should be considered and voted on today. Parliament must not allow the junta position to be established in Ukraine! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u20	The word is given to the national deputy of Kaletnik from the European Election Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u21	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[constituency 15, Viennese Region]] Dear colleagues! Dear TV and radio listeners! Dear voters! We are all alone in the estimates that the most painful thing for our people today is a standard of living that is not worthy of our hardworking, talented and suffering people. Not to see how corruption has pierced a large part of the official brotherhood; not to see that the shadow economy is growing at a much faster pace, and its financial flows are much more important than legal ones; not to see the problems of power and its construction at all levels in the state and not to want to solve all these problems -- it would mean not having a soul, heart and God. But to solve these issues by civil disobedience, by revolting -- that would mean, I don't think that's a good idea. Despite the economic difficulties, you and I, like most Ukrainian citizens, understand that the current established authorities, and Parliament, are constitutional, and we need a constitutional way to solve all the problems that we now have. The artificial destabilization of the political situation in real life usually leads to a decline in the pace of production, a deterioration in the socio-economic situation in the country, and then a deterioration in people's lives. We MEPs, members of the European Choice Group, urge our colleagues not to involve Parliament in lengthy political discussions. At the time of drafting really strategically important bills - overcoming poverty in Ukraine, on the 2003 budget, on the State Economic and Social Development Programme, on amending the Ukrainian Money Income Index Act and others - because there is a need for urgent legislative intervention and in such vital areas as health care, education, pension insurance. Let us begin this work today, so that when we report to our electorate, we do not have to count the number of political statements, actions and intentions, but we can sum up the laws and specific decisions that we will not be ashamed of in front of our electorate, before the people, and which in fact would significantly improve the lives of people in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u22	The word is given to the national deputy to Gapoczka. Get ready for Zubanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u23	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[electoral district 113, Lugansk Region]] The People's Choice MP group has repeatedly stated that it is time to put an end to ideological creeps in the walls of the Supreme Council, to renounce political opposition, to engage in constructive debate on issues, to create a majority and to start a normal work on legislative acts. With regard to the intentions of some political forces to destabilize the situation, both in Parliament and in Ukraine as a whole, events on September 16, 2002 confirmed the fairness of the conclusions on the incomparability of the organization of such demarches. The rallies held in Kiev were clearly not based on the scenario that was envisaged by the leadership of the opposition forces. Although the participants were specially taken to the capital from different regions, they did not become truly massive. As for the protests in the regions, we, the national MPs, are members of the People's Choice Group. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u24	Please don't disturb the speaker. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u25	We, members of the People's Choice Group, have analyzed how these actions took place in our regions, claim that they were small and did not have political resonance. All of this once again shows that there is only one way to resolve the issue: the path of political dialogue. In this context, we believe that the members of the faction "Our Ukraine" have demonstrated real wisdom and a desire for constructive, fair cooperation with other factions and groups by refusing to participate in today's action. With regard to the legal assessment of the actions of both the shareholders of last week and the representatives of the power structures, we believe that the right to do so is reserved for the judiciary. As for the Supreme Council, it has to carry out its constitutional responsibility for drafting and enacting laws. We, members of the People's Choice Group, are once again calling on opposition representatives to abandon further attempts to destabilize the situation in the country, using political ultimatum tactics. We urge representatives of all political forces in the Supreme Council to reject political ambitions, sit down at the negotiating table, create a parliamentary majority, start working properly. This is what our voters, citizens of all Ukraine, expect of us, not brought to Kiev. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u26	Thank you. The word is Zubanov. He'll be followed by Kirilenko. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u27	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[60 constituency, Donetsk Region]] Deputies! Respectable radio audiences! Respectable voters! All of us are learning democracy, and it is clear to all the deputies present in this room, even those elected for the first time, that the issues put up by the opposition must be resolved through the adoption of laws. Indeed, we see that all laws can be enacted by creating either a simple or a constitutional majority. But it is only here that these issues must be addressed, because all powerful solutions will not be recognized by the people of Ukraine or by the world community. For the first time in years of Ukraine's independence, a unique situation has arisen in the State when MPs have come to Parliament who, in their opinion, can create a constitutional majority on the basis of a course towards deepening market reforms, moving Ukraine towards democratic reforms. We also had a unique situation in Ukraine because the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilović Kuchma, first proposed such political reforms. [[B in m in s a l in]] That is why we need to agree between ourselves and create a majority in this room. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction stands ready to engage in a dialogue with any MP, with any faction, with all members who profess the principles of democracy, favour the movement of Ukraine on the path of democratic, social and market reforms. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u28	The word is given to the People’s Deputy, Kirilenko. To prepare the Desert Lady Valery Pavlovich. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u29	Member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on European Integration. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, a constituency for Ukraine's One!]] It's a faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Dear colleagues! Thousands of times from this highest in the country’s rostrum, we emphasized our respectful calling ourselves colleagues. And did we become 11 years of independence in this narrow compartment under the dome really colleagues or at least partners in the parliamentary trade? Over the years, this rostrum has known many performances and has shuddered from violent emotions, accusations, and compromises. Unfortunately, we did not become a whole collective body of the highest independent branch of government. For decades, we have not responded so much, and we do not answer today, even though we have adopted dozens of weak laws, unaccounted for decisions, played with the resignation of half a dozen governments, lobbyed some and others’ business or regional interests, and set the political passions of ambition on fire. Over a number of years in a row, we criticize and charm anyone but ourselves. The third call in a row wants more power and more authority. So why didn't we do this with you on June 27-28, 1996? A good third of the hall remembers the constitutional night: 320-340 votes each. The main controversy is around the problem of Crimea, Russian and the Black Sea fleet, and the issue of organization and distribution of power took place almost in hurrah. [[almost to the knife and to the morning]] Even though it was not already proposed by the developers to solve the problem of objections by creating a bicameral parliament, civilizing the legislative body for the majority and the opposition to the formation of a government? All these suggestions from intelligent people are, unfortunately, on the sidelines of our political life, and we have been at war in the hall for six years. When arguments are lacking in the rostrum, emotions are turned to the street. And the box wasn't locked, as they say, and they're confusing themselves, and they're confusing themselves. How we did not then praise our Constitution, and life proved to be a very wise teacher. Amendments to the Basic Law are ripe. First of all, the state needs a strong parliament. He will be like that only when he is responsible. Responsible for both the laws he adopts and the branch of authority that brings them into life, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers. So, what's up, guys? On Thursday, let's vote on the composition of the Constitutional Commission -- and immediately to work. And there's a lot of it. And let's also say that six years ago, in the Transitional Positions of the Constitution, we recorded so many warnings and safeguards that we now have to follow the procedure for amending the whole year. We wrote it ourselves, and we're going to fix it. Today, some find it hard to have everything now. There's a recipe here. Suggestion: there's a draft agreement, let's sign a draft agreement, and then we can form a government today and get to work immediately. What do we have instead? Instead, there are about ten draft electoral bills in the hall. We don't do anything for people, we're already thinking about elections. Look in that bill: 450 districts, 150 parties, and each party is delegating to the district of its candidate. It's going to get back into each other's throats, biting our throats, smashing ourselves, people, Ukraine. Dear friends, we have a month. A month! In a month we should create a parliamentary majority. We can't do this in the fall, because in the spring already the "hot horses" will be thrown into the pre-election race, it won't be before the laws, it won't be about social issues, it won't be about any other problems. Sadly, four years from the biography of Ukraine will be erased. There will be a cross in this Parliament. Dear friends, let's not let this happen. We have a lot of work to do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u30	Thank you. The word is given to the Desertstone Valery Pavlovich by the People's Authority and the faction of the NDP. Six minutes. He'll be followed by Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u31	Aolo's Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, a constituency for Ukraine's One!]] Dear colleagues! I remember the events that took place in the Ukrainian Parliament in the 1990s and 1994s. There was also a destabilization of the Supreme Council's work, a requirement to hold presidential elections early, a change of government. And what did we get in the meantime? We haven't been able to agree in both our parliament and our society. So let me brief you on the position of the faction of the People's Democratic Party. Our party has been and remains the leader of united processes in a democratic environment. The fact that the NDP was involved in this year's elections as part of the Democratic Party for Ukraine's One! Our position was and remains constructive, dialogue-oriented and cooperative. Of course, we are also pleased that today the need to unite democratic forces in the parliamentary majority speaks of virtually all the parties and associations represented in the Supreme Council, including both our associates, who were part of the "One Ukraine" faction and "Our Ukraine". But me and my one-party colleagues are very concerned about the fact that, by making the same lines of cooperation, we still haven't moved away. What is more, there have been massive protests that increase the already high political tension in our relationship. We are halfway through a political divide that can lead to unforeseeable political and social consequences. So three short questions that I'm going to try to answer; what's going on today, how can the situation go on, and classical -- what can I do to restore a constructive political dialogue? First. We're experiencing a real social conflict, the reason why there's a discrepancy between civil society's demands, which are dynamically evolving and requires new standards of political and economic democracy, and a conservative model of power based on essentially bureaucratic and fiscally strong governance. So the bottom line: everyone understands that there will be no winners in this fight, because even temporary political success will quickly turn to a reaction, revenge, and a new economic redistribution. The other one. What can happen next if you leave it as it is. Unfortunately, our Ukraine, the originators of the majority by the nine plus one formula, and even the president are offering illegal options to most organizations. The NDP supports the political agreements on coalition, the coalition government, but we need to realize that all of this is beyond the limits of the existing Constitution, the current legislation, and the risk of unbalanced decisions and even political provocations is very high, and the boundary between the agreement and the political game is too thin. I'm behind this offer. On the other hand, I strongly believe that trying to create a large majority of parliaments, based only on the number of participants, is a completely wrong path. Such a majority will be objectively unstable, and there will be a real danger that if a coalition government is formed, it can quickly discredit itself. Moreover, I do not rule out that if such a fragile majority fails, there will be a threat that some forces will try to implement in Ukraine the Russian option of adopting the Constitution through a referendum around Parliament and the public. You can see the negatives of a similar development, because the perspective looks quite contradictory. Third. I am deeply convinced that there is a real way to remedy the situation, to get the country out of a political situation. Here are five steps that I propose: political coalition is the majority of parliament; a coalition government and a politically strong prime minister; New legislation for local self-government, increasing the economic autonomy of local self-government bodies, creating executive structures of representative bodies in all regions; the adoption by Parliament of a constitutional law on the foundations of foreign and domestic policy that regulates the orientations and ways of implementing the reform of the political system; carrying out constitutional reform through the organization of a broad civil dialogue, and to that end, the convening of a constitutional assembly. If we refuse political opposition, we should take these five steps from this day forward. So the first and the main step. The stability of the domestic political situation now depends on whether the situation in Parliament is stable. This requires more than just a majority, but a strong parliamentary coalition is a political majority. We are now conscious of the temporary illegal status of such a majority, but our goal is not only to stabilize the work of Parliament and to end social unrest, but also to influence the redeployment of power in favour of representative democracy. But we do not need to continue to rejoice in the illusion that coalition and coalition government will solve everything. Convinced that authority should become more transparent and close to everyone, not only in Kiev but also in every area, district, city, village, village. Therefore, it is not necessary to deceive citizens, to limit ourselves to Parliament and to the government. Regrettably, legislation that regulates the activities of local governments and governments inhibits the development of regions. In my view, it would be appropriate to review existing legislation on local self-government and expedite the adoption of new laws that would allow for the removal of existing bi-governments in places. The next steps are the adoption of the law on the basis of the foreign and domestic policy of our state and the new constitutional process. I propose to all representatives of the parties to support the proposal of the People's Democratic Party to create a constitutional assembly, a legitimate body whose purpose is to publicly agree on the principles of the new constitutional system and to draft a new constitution that is to become a real social treaty, not a product of the agreement of the Ivan, Petr and Sidorov. Dear fellow national MPs! Once again, I am addressing all parliamentarians, factions and parties -- support our party's initiative to create a constitutional assembly. In conclusion, no one but us national MPs is going to be able to bring order to our parliament, to our state. I urge everyone to work together! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u32	The word is given to Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich. He will be followed by Tigipko Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u33	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Your Honor is presiding! Dear National Deputies! Before I begin my talk, I would like to make one request to you. Dear friends! What is happening today in Ukraine is characterized by two words: disorder and lawlessness. We must, honourable deputies, learn to listen to one another in these walls, for man is wiser only when he listens. She learns something from others. I would like to begin by understanding the emotions and feelings that are surging in this room, and I realize that many forces are already becoming polar. We get to the limit when we're driven by emotions, not common sense. To the profound conviction of our faction, the political forces of Parliament are still capable of acting, still capable of conducting a dialogue. That's my belief, too. We have to admit something else. Every day in Ukraine, the confrontation between power and society, between power and political power, is intensifying. We're going into a rather complex, deep, unprecedented political crisis in 11 years, so we need to realize that it's the core of our contradictions, why this is happening in Ukraine, not talking nonsense about some laws, about some budget. Dear people's deputies, but wake up! What law are you talking about? Until you overcome the ruby of the political crisis, no law will be passed here, will you not understand? Be honest! So, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want to say to you is that there has to be an understanding of what is the essence of the Ukrainian political crisis. And the point is, people vote for each other, authorities belong to others. And do not torture yourself by looking for other answers. This is the essence of the Ukrainian crisis, the Ukrainian problem. The other one. How can we get out of this political crisis, the metastases of which have already hit parliament? This is a crisis that is already fiscal in nature, which could turn into a deep financial crisis in a few months, and there is good reason for that. How can we get out of this situation? If we are Ukrainian and serve Ukraine, the best gift to Ukraine is to preserve stability. This calls for wise heads. The biggest gift you have to make to Ukraine right now is to find that construct, get out of this incredibly difficult situation. Dear friends, so I would like to highlight the fat line: now we should not be driven by emotion, but by living with our minds and looking for the answer in a constructive model. Third. Dear friends, the shortest way to normalize the situation, first of all in the Ukrainian Parliament, is not to personally participate in the lie that is happening today in Ukraine. [[Pay attention to this point]] Let each one find his own position. Friends, be politically responsible and morally honest! This is the first step towards creating a political majority in these walls. Believe me, this road starts with you, not with the Bank, from each and every one of you. May you wake up to both human dignity and political responsibility. Four. Dear friends, until Parliament is a parliament, and the branch of the Bank, we will not get out of the political crisis. This is the law. [[Applause]] Either parliament will solve the crisis, or it will be the street and the playground -- and every day it gets louder and stronger. Let us be clear, dear friends: either we have our wisdom and political ability to solve these problems, or let the street really solve them. And the last. On September 15, we were shown a dialogue, and we remain in that position. The forum declaration was signed by 50 political forces. September 16, friends, was dedicated to only one. We know that this authority has never demonstrated a transparent, honest, sequential dialogue, and on September 16 is the motivation for finally having such a dialogue in Ukraine, and I ask you otherwise not to understand this situation. Let the Inter Channel only comment in a different way as for a market toy, but we have to be wiser. [[Applause]] And speaking of dialogue, what we want. Your Honor, let me be very honest with you. Political colleagues in the left-hand sector liked to repeat this famous quote that taught many Ukrainians: when we say "Lenin," we understand "party," when we say "party," we understand "Lenin." [[And today, I think they're repeating]] Right? That's right. When we say "government" today, we understand "President," when we say "President," we understand "government." The authorities in Ukraine, respected friends, are in one hand. Or we're either starting negotiations and we're finding the answer in a constructive model, or, dear friends, we're signing up for the fact that parliament and the political forces in Ukraine are not able to solve this issue and we need to hold a presidential election. [[He said, "He has made the wise."]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u34	The word is given to the national deputy Tihypek Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u35	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Your Honor is presiding! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the political situation is getting worse, but the economic situation is worsening. In the last ten days, we see demonstrators in the streets of Kiev for the second time. We've been working in Parliament for six months, and we're talking about most and six months, we can't take any effective steps towards this majority. Today we have an unstructured parliament that cannot make effective economic and political decisions that are needed by the country today. We have a worsening economic situation. Four percent of the growth we have is not going to be able to solve the problems that exist in Ukraine today. We have a tightening of the budget situation, and today the budget figures are not up to date. We're going to move on to budget implementation, and we're going to see that we can't raise salaries to teachers, doctors, we can't provide our pensioners. That is, such a situation shows that we today have a serious challenge that we all need to answer together. All together! Only in these walls can we improve the situation. What should be the way to do this? The opposition offers one way, quite confrontational, they see a way out. There's another way out of this is evolutionary. I think it's more efficient, more needed today by the country. We all agree with the political reforms that we must undertake in our country. And all of us are convinced that this is the way we are going, and that brings us together. In my opinion, today we could adopt the Opposition Act and form the widest possible coalition that could create the majority. In doing so, I have consistently advocated that this majority be as broad as possible. I'm addressing the representatives of our Ukraine. I'm sure they should be in this majority. I'm sure we should be involved with this majority and the Social Democrats, because that allows us to move. [[United]] [[B in m in s a l in]] As soon as I listened attentively to Victor Andryovich Yashchenk, he urged his mind, not his emotions. If we want constitutional changes, if we want rapid changes in Ukraine, I think we need to do so. At the same time, no matter what, we have to create a constitutional commission and deal with the questions that today lead to people coming out of the street, that we can't answer our pensioners, doctors and teachers. We could quickly, literally in a week, form a coalition government that would share a shared responsibility with us. If we had succeeded in doing so, we would have had an effective relationship with the government. If we do not learn to listen to each other, if we do not help each other, there will be no peace in this country. I propose that after the return of the Chief of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litwin, because I believe that the figure in question is the most appropriate right now, we begin political consultations with the leaders of the factions. If we even start to get together, talk, I think it will be in Ukraine's best interest. Dear friends! I'm sure without understanding each other, without dialogue, without concrete steps to creating a majority, we don't have a coalition government. Today, the evolutionary path will be more efficient and faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! As decided by the Conciliation Council, we invited the Minister of Interior and the Attorney General to provide information on the events of September 16th. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? Please sign in. Light up, please. Winsky, the faction of Soccer. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u37	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Please give the floor to the head of the Socialist Party of Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Dear Hennady Andriyovich! I draw your attention and all the deputies to the fact that last week's Conciliation Council was discussing the first issue of the political situation in Ukraine. In fact, the heads of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenk and other deputies, were also present. Sergei Tihypco was just talking about the same thing. Therefore, hiding in a bush, hiding your head under a wing, that there is no conflict, cannot be done. We have to accept the documents that assess this situation and anticipate the steps that must be taken in Ukraine to really be the consolidation of society and to make positive changes. Therefore, it is not necessary to pretend that the officials were invited and that they would make information. We know how this can be done. We need to consider the matter in substance rather than listening to information. I insist. There are all the documents that have been prepared, and they are distributed to the deputies according to the Rules. The issue of the political situation in Ukraine needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u39	Migovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u40	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Stabbing. Please give the word to the leader of the faction Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u41	Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u42	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I would like to ask you to support the proposal to consider the political situation in Ukraine, to draw your attention to the fact that we cannot be outside the processes that are taking place in Ukraine. Those of you who were in the areas of mass action there have witnessed how the people demanded of us, national deputies, to approach objectively all the processes that are taking place in Ukraine, to consider them in terms of their impact on the standard of life, to ensure the rights and freedoms of citizens, such as the right to work, to rest, to be able to teach children, to be treated, and to all the other things that concern people. Today the situation is threatening because local authorities are raising tariffs on utilities and rents. This does not apply only to events in Kiev, its legality, or its illegality. We have a situation on the verge of a national disaster. Will Ukraine determine the path that will enable it to develop normally and protect the rights of all citizens, or will we today witness that criminal groups will finally take power. Therefore, we suggest that we consider the political situation in the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u43	Kirilchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u44	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u45	A Turk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u46	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! We're not interested in "bone" in the form of Smyrnov's lie, which, by the way, ours and other factions require that we be removed from office for a lie, for provocations, including September 16-17. We and the people who came to Parliament are interested in considering the political crisis that took place in the country. That is what we demand, and without that question, we will not consider other questions. We require, within the scope of the draft Political Situation Order in Ukraine, to vote on the resignation of President Kuchma and the initiation of impeachment procedures, presidential presidential elections, Smyrnov's resignation and other liars and provocators, who are guilty of what is happening in the country that is responsible for the bloodshed of people. We demand that we consider this issue urgently and not start considering other matters without taking a decision on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u47	You may demand, but do not insult each other, be more tolerant. The word is given to Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u48	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[Election District 174, Kharkiv Region]] "Democratic Initiatives." I think that if we believe that we are living in a democratic, civilized state, we cannot be unjustifiably insulted in front of the cameras. I believe that we should be able to speak to the Attorney-General and the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u49	Zarubinsky. Please. And we're done, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u50	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Please give the floor to the National Deputy Alexander Karpov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u51	Karpov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u52	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! Those who appeal to the need to comply with the laws, the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council and claim from the Supreme Council's rostrum that all must act in such a way without exception, I would like to remind them that, in accordance with the Rules, the issue of information is brought into the agenda and is being considered on the basis of agreement by the Conciliation Council. All other issues, since the agenda of the Supreme Council has been approved, should be initiated, incorporated into the agenda and considered only after that. As we know, we are deciding to include the issue in the agenda and the vote on Thursday. The proposals are made, on Thursday we have to go back to this issue, include it, or not include it in the agenda, and act in accordance with the Constitution, laws, and Rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u53	Adam Ivanovich, please. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u54	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. I am very grateful for explaining the Rules to the distinguished coordinator of the majority, who does not yet exist. But I want to ask him and all the national deputies: please take the agenda for today and see what it says. There's no word for "information." Don't misinformation! It says "Report." They're not informing, they're reporting. So there can be no inclusion without the agreement of the session room. That's the first one. The other one. Alexander Mikolaiovich, you know very well how many times we have crossed out your national-Ukrainian rule that we vote only every Thursday. Parliament has the right at any time to decide that it does not have to vote on Thursday alone. Today, we can make decisions based on the exceptionality of the situation, vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of the matter. So we're not breaking any regulations, but you're deliberately misinformationing us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich! With regard to the schedule of meetings, everything is set here correctly. We agreed, we made a decision at the Conciliation Council meeting that today the information of the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General would be heard. With regard to inclusion in the agenda, this question is voted on by the Rules on Thursday. You can vote, you can vote. If we are to consider today, we should vote on the procedure of ad hos — a derogation from the Rules. Do you insist on voting? You insist. Therefore, according to the Rules, if today we put the issue of the political situation under consideration, we should vote in favour of the derogation from the Rules and then vote in favour of the inclusion of the issue in the agenda and consideration today or tomorrow, as decided by the Chamber. [[i.e. the ad hos procedure - 226 votes]] So we're voting? [[B in m in s a l in]] . From the procedure? So it's endless. Frost Alexander Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u56	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Remember, the Conciliation Council has created an interfractional commission that you lead to prepare for the political situation in Ukraine. This was decided last week at a meeting of the Conciliation Council. The information commission is not being created, so you will need to take the floor for the report. And we need to include that question. And you don't have to vote on procedural issues -- to put into the agenda this is the issue that was decided at the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u57	This was not the case. Alexandre Alexandrovich, there was only one decision taken at the Conciliation Council - the information of the heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General's Office. I know everything, I know what this is about, and I know the rules, and I know what it says. So if you insist on voting, we vote on the ad hoc procedure. Please turn on the "Race" system and the MPs will be identified. "For" - 163. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. For information, please contact Interior Minister Yuri Alexanderovich Smyrnov. Please. Up to 10 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you insist on? Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the European Choice and People's Choice groups, there is a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u58	Dear National Deputies! Please take up jobs. Dear National Deputies! The individual faction leaders expressed this view about the procedure for dealing with the issue: the intervention of the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, by 10 minutes, the answers to questions, by 10 minutes. And then come out of the factions. Let's put it to a vote. The hall has to be determined. By the rules, this is a procedure that needs to be voted on. If the hall is determined, it'll be a procedure. Please turn on the "Race" system. Everybody sit down, please. Let's be clear about the procedure I'm talking about. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down, please. No speeches from the procedure! We've spent so much time talking about the procedure! Turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. "For" - 199. The decision is not taken. At the request of individual national deputies, I am revoting. Pay attention! Calm down, please! Is everyone ready to vote? Vote. Turn on the "Race" system. "For" - 203. The factions. I repeat, at a meeting that has just been held, individual faction leaders have expressed this idea: the interior minister's information is 10 minutes, the answers are 10 minutes, the Attorney-General's information is 10 minutes, the answers are 10 minutes, and then you give the floor to the factions. Is that clear? Vote. "For" - 251. Decision taken. For information, please contact the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Alexandrovich Smyrnov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u59	Minister of Interior of Ukraine. Your Honor is presiding! Dear National Deputies! On September 16, a number of parties and blocs organized mass efforts to draw attention to their political demands. The campaigners announced their intentions in the summer and immediately launched a broad campaign, urging thousands of people to leave the streets of Kiev and other locations. In this connection, according to the Ukrainian Police Act, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has focused its internal affairs on ensuring public order, the safety of citizens, and the constitutional requirements for these actions. The main events, according to the organizers, should have unfolded in Kiev. On September 6, the shareholders informed the Kyiv City State Administration of their intention to gather several hundred thousand citizens in the European capital. A number of state institutions, military units, train stations, and even bridges were also planned. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is such a document signed by Mr. Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u60	Please calm down, questions later.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u61	The Kiev City Administration, after examining the possible consequences of these actions, appealed to the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev to restrict the right to mass congregations in the central part of the city, to ban the farming of the estates, the setting of tents, and so forth. This was due to the fact that the presence of a large number of people in central areas of the capital would pose a threat to the normal pace of life of the city, the movement of transport, the functioning of public institutions, public order and the security of citizens. On September 12, the court found these arguments to be convincing and prohibited the holding of shares in the central areas of Kiev. This has been widely publicized in the media. In turn, the Department of State Executive Services of the Shevchenkow District Office of Justice in Kiev informed interested parties. The relevant report requiring the enforcement of the rule of law in the execution of the court’s decision was also sent to the internal courts. In order to prevent illegal action, to ensure the safety of citizens, internal affairs authorities have taken preventive measures, including meetings with action coordinators, press conferences, media interventions, information stands to clarify the rules of law, responsibility for violations. However, immediately after the court’s decision was announced, shareholders publicly stated their intention to ignore the verdict. In violation of article 39 of the Ukrainian Constitution, they urged citizens to come to the European square. On September 16, 11 a.m., stockholders began to gather in various parts of the city. After forming the columns, they headed for the European square. The colonies, which led the Ukrainian national deputies, moved from the Arsenal, Contact Square and Sofia Square stations, blocking traffic for several hours along the streets of Gruszewski, Mikhail, Sagaidak and Volodymyr. The police were forced to block traffic on the streets to decide whether to take transport on secondary highways. According to the fact that transport communications have been blocked in the areas of Gruszewski, Mikhailivska, Sagaidak, Vladimirski, and in the European square, four criminal cases have been violated by the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev under article 279 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code - the blocking of transport communications. In the face of a 15 - to 17 - hour restraining order, a rally took place in the European Square, attended by some 15,000 citizens. [[Illumination in the Hall, Laughing]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u62	Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u63	I'd like you to name the number more. In the face of a 15 - to 17 - hour restraining order, such a rally took place. After the end, at the invitation of the organizers of the stock, his participants were divided into two columns. One blocked traffic along the streets of Gruszewski and Šovkovicki, reached the corner of the Institute’s street and began to mount tents on the roadside. Another column, turning the movement on the streets of Khrestyk, the Institute, Šovkovicka and Lutheranska, went to the Presidential Administration and, with the appeal of the national deputy, Alexander Turchinov, began to set up tents on Lutheran Street. The operations with which the tents were set are evidence of early preparation for this action, that is, intentional disregard of the court’s decision. The 126 tents blocked the central streets of Kiev for 12 hours, creating not only obstacles to the normal functioning of a number of state institutions, but also restricting constitutional rights, civil liberties, paralyzing the vitality of the crime scene. According to the report, Kyiv’s prosecutor’s office violated a criminal case under article 279 of the Criminal Code — the blocking of transport communications. In line with articles 1 and 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Police to Stop Crime, immediate intervention by law enforcement agencies was needed. I would like to point out that, starting on September 18th, September 16, more than 10 times, the police have warned members of the campaign about the inadmissibility of violating public order and blocking transport communications. They were asked to rent tents voluntarily by 4 p.m. on September 17 to allow municipal services to maintain order in the historic part of the city. Imagine how much garbage and waste was rolling around here, let alone the basic hygiene conditions. However, the legal requirements of police officers were explicitly ignored by organizers and shareholders. Personally, I am not surprised to learn that some take part in similar activities just for the sake of money. They did not respond to the demands of the State Executive Service, who, along with the police, arrived at the tent location at four o’clock in the morning. Action organizers, including national MPs, were actively opposed to legal requirements. Yulia Timoshenko, leader of the All-Ukrainian Union, even allowed himself to be struck on the face of the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Alexander Savchenka. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u64	Please, calm down! Don't hold back from reporting!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u65	Acting on a crime scene in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Police Act, the militia units pushed away those who prevented the conduct of investigations. Then they removed tents that were attached as evidence of the crime. Helped the executives to unlock the streets. These actions were carried out in the presence of a deputy prosecutor in the Pecher district. Two clips of hunting rifles and grenades were found on the scene. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two criminal cases have been reported under article 263 of the Criminal Code — the illegal treatment of weapons, ammunition, or explosives. From the scene of the crime, 64 persons were taken to the local authorities of the city of Kiev. To nine persons suspected of committing a crime under part three of article 279 of the Criminal Code, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Attorney -General of Ukraine decided not to apply extreme precautionary measures, but to choose a more humane subscription to nondepartment. This is because they committed a crime for the first time and were misled by the organizers of actions that are covered in parliamentary integrity. Other district courts in Kiev have been subject to administrative penalties for violations of the organization and conduct of assemblies, rallyings, street raids, and demonstrations. By the way, some detainees called action one of the ways of unburdened earnings. In the media, there have been many rumors and even deliberate insinuations of police personnel, large numbers of victims, and detainees. How can this be said if the police even closed their eyes to petty offences, to appear in public places in the unsettling condition of some chickens? It is documented that none of the health care providers in the capital and other regions have applied for medical care. [[B in m in s a l in]] Moreover, the police tried to help citizens who were in difficult situations. For example, on Lutheran Street, for about 21 hours passersby reported to the police about an elderly woman who became ill in the crowd. At the request of a retired woman, the police took her home. And these cases are not alone. A preliminary criminal investigation found that the leaders of well - known political organizations and associations, who called on citizens to commit disobedience to the authorities, tried to have an illegal impact on the President of Ukraine by putting obstacles on his way to work. The actions of the persons in question show the signs of the crime provided for in article 344 of the Criminal Code. Since there is a criminal case in the conduct of the Attorney General’s Office, the criminal case under article 344 is directed to unification. I would like to emphasize once again that during mass action, the police acted exclusively in the right field. In a statement by the Attorney General’s Office, members of the police are declared legitimate. In these days, we have come to appreciate once again the need for the speedy adoption of the Law of Peace. This law awaits both the citizens of Ukraine and the authorities of the interior. And the last. You know, today mass stock is going on and we can't avoid it either. In this regard, I would like to address all national MPs and especially party and block leaders: set an example of respect for the law, take a step towards building a legal democratic state. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Ministry of Internal Affairs stands ready to propose the creation of an observational body, which includes representatives of various political forces, media officials, police officers, and the objective reporting of internal affairs in carrying out such large-scale measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u66	Thank you, Yuri Alexanderovich. Please sign up for the question. Let me explain. The word is given by Oneichuku Mikoli Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u67	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's a faction of the political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and Labour Ukraine. Dear Mr. Minister! I'd like to ask you to stop in more detail in the court proceedings that dealt with this issue, because the media reported that there was a decision by the Shevchenkov District Court, but it's not known whether it was in the appeal. If the complaint was filed, has the complaint been heard? What information do you have about the court’s decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u68	The court’s decision was not challenged in an appeal. I don't have any other information.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u69	The word is given to Bandur to Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u70	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[Election District 176, Kharkiv Region]] Dear Mr. Minister! How many investigative, operational and other internal affairs officials have been removed from their direct responsibilities, which they have to perform daily in the fight against crime, to secure political actions that took place from 16 to 17 September?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u71	Thank you. Our people were in second gear, and so was the ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u72	"From the back door," I apologize, no one touched you. 500 people were involved in this bank action. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u73	The word is given by Matthew’s Sergey Anatolyevich. Behind him is the Cloud. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u74	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Dear Yuri Alexandrovich! Please tell me, have you been approached either during or after this campaign by journalists that they have not been allowed to perform their duties, have they prevented the shooting, interviewing and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u75	I would like to stress once again that we have not been addressed by journalists in this regard, either orally or in writing. Once again, I would like to clarify the one thing: none of the citizens in the treatment facilities of the city of Kiev or the other regions have addressed the injury. No statements from detainees, from other persons who were in the Bank's perimeter, were made to the internal affairs authorities. The only thing that came to us was Deputy Nikolaenko about nine people I think we've been holding back. Yeah, he listed nine people on his list. Started looking, four of them didn't, four of them were actually arrested. Have you had any questions about your detention, or are you injured? No questions asked. Two people from this list don't exist in nature at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u76	The word is given to the Cloud of Stéphane Ilkovich. The next one is the Oilman.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u77	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u78	Turn on Timoshenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u79	First. I want to state on behalf of our faction and all the deputies who were present in this massacre that everything from the first to the last word that this minister has just declared is a lie. And I can give such a witness. We've got about ten people officially getting beat up, we've got medical records, we've got competent authorities for criminal offences. I can tell you as a person who was present, not just beating people, but beating them violently. And we have all the photos, and today I'm going to show you that the beating of people was so strong that you can even see these injuries with your eye. And the questions I'd like to ask you. Please tell me, who gave you orders from peaceful people who did not touch, beat, crush, and ruin their lives? That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u80	Follow the rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u81	The second question. You're lying from the rostrum about someone getting the money to take part in the stock. Please tell me, do you have any official confirmation that as a high-level minister you're saying someone was paying someone money? And the third question. Tell me, how can you take up this position if you work against the people and lie in secret from the high court? [[Applause]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u82	Thank you. I understand that your question sounds a little emotional, but I'm a lawyer, maybe you think, and bad, from the facts. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me answer the question, please. I come from the facts that there are no organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u84	I come from facts, not emotions. I've been asked all the questions in Russian, and I'm answering them in Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u85	Yuri Alexanderovich, I beg your pardon. According to the Rules that we have in force, only the chairman of the national language should hold meetings. We will consider the Law on the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't tear down the hall, calm down! Yuri Alexandrovich, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u86	If you give me a chance, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u87	He reported in the national language
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u88	There is no record of any beatings by police officers of any of the officers detained at either the Ministry of Justice or the Attorney General's Office. Please, come on. And one more thing. The testimony is that those who participated.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u89	Don't interrupt, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u90	What's your last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u91	The answer was given to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u92	Now I'm going to answer the question. The fact that the participants in these shares received money, we have official "show them." And I'd like to answer the deputy. We have been approached by the distinguished Deputy Grázev, who was pushed to the back twice when the tents were seized and the suspects were detained. There's no bodily harm to Deputy Grozeva, no "who pushed him," "he hasn't seen him." We interrogated all the militia officers who were there, and they denied the incident. We have referred these materials to the Attorney-General's Office for prosecution and in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u93	Calm down, please. What's going on? The word is given to Olive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u94	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[electoral district 125, Lviv region]] Please give the floor to Mr. Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u95	I'd like to ask the people's deputies to understand. There are duties of the police. A crime has been committed and criminal proceedings have been instituted. We have an obligation to act at the crime scene. This is in accordance with the laws you have enacted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u96	Yuri Alexanderovich, enough. Please give the word to Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u97	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine," the National Movement of Ukraine. Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u98	No one gives orders to the police, she has an obligation to act in accordance with the circumstances. [[B in m in s a l in]] You want, I've given the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u99	Yuri Alexanderovich! Please look over here. You took my minute. I'm asking you to give me a new rule. On the eve of September 16th and the days before the National Forum or not, all the television channels showed a very interesting story about how police officers were pursuing a foreign trade somewhere on the battlefield or on some other route. Finally, at a speed of about 140 kilometers, it fell into some tree, and in the living room there were many boxes of bottles, where it was called "Mix of Molotov." This was all about the kind of provocations that were being prepared. Please tell me, how is this such a remarkable phenomenon: a 140 - km - long vehicle crashed into a tree — no bottle has been broken? [[The Sound in the Hall]] . And did the driver who fled and was wanted by the police find him? That's the first question. The second question. Why did you act so illogically as a minister and a police officer? When the court of Shevchenkov ruled against the shares, the 16th police and you, as head of the department, did not intervene. It would be logical to act on the night of the 16th to the 17th. You waited for the darkness and made this action -- you started executing the court's decision in the morning by 17. [[And in the dark, you know who usually likes to act]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u100	Thank you. As for the vehicle found with the Molotov mix. Yeah, this car was found. Criminal proceedings have been initiated and investigations are under way. Next. As for the fact that we were in court at four o’clock in the morning. This decision was taken by the “executive” bodies. Plus, criminal communications lockup was initiated. That is, a crime to which we must respond has been committed. It could have been both at 3:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u101	Thank you. Yuri Alexandrovich, time's up. Have a seat, please. The word for information is given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Svetoslav Mikhailovich Piscoun. [[They're chanting in the hall, "Damn!"]] Calm down! Holy Michaelovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u102	U.S. Attorney General. Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's recent September political events cannot help but cause concern not only for the general public but also for the leadership of the state, the prosecutor's office, because they have legal and socio-economic consequences alongside the political aspects. Already in preparation for the rebellion of the people, leaders of the three political fronts -- the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine -- have committed violations of the law in their individual actions. Along with this were leaflets, proclamations, Internet materials that called on citizens to block the work of state institutions, including the Presidential Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to paralyze life in Ukraine until the goal of the President's resignation and the change of the political system in the country was reached. [[It's literally]] [[Applause]] Thank you. I know that the left side always supports me, I speak calmly. The main slogan of the actions being prepared by the so-called political forces is to destabilize the work of the state institutions and authorities responsible for ensuring respect for the rule of law, the constitutional rights of all citizens of the state who may have suffered as a result of the planned protest, to damage the normal functioning of public transport, the work of enterprises and organizations in places of action, the free movement of citizens, in the end, to threaten the normal functioning of the economy, civil peace in Ukraine, the observance of the constitutional rights of citizens, the national security of the state, which must be guaranteed by the President of Ukraine as a guarantor. All measures taken to implement the identified threat of resignation, chosen in accordance with the Ukrainian President’s Constitution, are illegal interference with the activities of a public official and prevent him from performing his duties. In this connection, as a result of the examination of these facts by the Attorney General on September 11, this year, a criminal case was committed under article 344 of the Criminal Code — interference with the activities of a public official, which was adopted before the investigating authorities of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The following actions are aimed at fully clarifying all the conditions of the organization and carrying out the action "Rise, Ukraine!"and its organizers and managers, caused by citizens, organizations, businesses and institutions of harm. The 1,200 persons questioned by the prosecutor’s office explained that they did not know about the illegality of their actions, the proposed actions, and the illegality of the action. Most of these people refused to participate and did not go to the city of Kiev. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u103	Don't bother! Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u104	All known circumstances that may have affected the state of public order, the normal functioning of the institutions, businesses and transportation of the capital, prompted the local administration to appeal to the court for restrictions on the right to mass meetings during the holding of the "Resurrection, Ukraine!" in the city of Kiev. You know about the decision of the court in Shevchenkow district, it was forbidden, but allowed to enter the European square. In view of the fact that people came, there was no point in hindering any disturbance or confrontation with the police. The court’s decision by the State Executive Service was carried out by means of a communication from all interested persons, stockholders, and the head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev. By ignoring it, however, the leaders of the bloc of Timoshenko, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and the Communist Party grouped together and brought out the participants in the central square and the street. In particular, a rally was held in the European Square, during which normal transportation was disrupted. We also have a statement from the city administration. To warn and warn law enforcement officials to stop the illegal activities of the leaders of the opposition forces and their instigators did not respond, it indicated that they did not want to voluntarily resume the normal activities of the institutions, businesses, transportation, and so forth. This means that they covered the road with tents. The point is that criminal responsibility is foreseen for blocking transport communications according to article 279. According to this article, blocking transport communication can have significant, severe consequences. In this connection, they were unlocked. [[B in m in s a l in]] But place your tents wherever you want. Why is it necessary to put them on the road? I'm saying what's installed. During the action "Rise, Ukraine!" Nine persons were detained. When it came to the arrest of these people, you know that I didn't sign the application, and these people were released because there were no serious consequences. I told the press that we are refusing to grant authorization for arrest because there are no serious consequences. With regard to the detainees, the court ruled on them. A number of criminal cases have been violated by law enforcement officials, and today, three days later, we have no possibility. I have heard today that many people have turned to their injuries. The Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office was approached by Deputy Grzezhev on the grounds that he was injured. We immediately met with Deputy Grozaev, and we took him along.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u105	Calm down, please! You don't have to get into a relationship right now, sit down!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u106	You were at the Attorney General's office?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u107	Then I'll take care of it, because I've been giving you an assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u108	You don't have to argue, Holy Michaelovich, go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u109	I say that the honourable national deputies, according to the Ukrainian law, have ten days each law enforcement body has to consider allegations and reports of crimes. Dear National Deputies! All applications and messages are currently being checked. In ten days, you will receive an official response from the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u110	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Let me explain. Ten minutes, please. The word is given to Zarubinsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u111	Please give the word to Alexander Markovich Bandur.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u112	Please turn on Bandurka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u113	Dear Attorney General! I know how many undiscovered serious crimes there are. So I ask, how many investigators are involved in the investigation teams investigating the crimes committed on September 16-17?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u114	Dear Alexander Markovich! I don't know how many investigators are involved, I didn't count them. But I know that we're distracting them from their work at a time when every day hundreds of crimes are committed in Ukraine, people are suffering, people are taking lives, someone is stealing property. The following, instead of dealing with these matters, are really distracting to investigate matters of political colour. It would be very good for politicians to deal with these issues without the help of law enforcement agencies and to resolve them here in the hall. But a lot of investigators work. I want to say that there is the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which has been voted in this room, with amendments and additions since September 1, 1999. [[Lawyers, as well as MPs, who are not lawyers, will understand me]] If there is a claim by the appropriate people that other persons commit crimes, and the actions of those persons fall within the rules of the Criminal Code, the Attorney General’s Office has no right not to react. Let's make a statement. Let's draw, the law is the same for everyone. But there are no applications!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u115	Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u116	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u117	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u118	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Mr. Prosecutor! Please tell me, how many criminal cases have you committed against President Kuchma of Ukraine, the heads of his Medvedczuk Administration, other officials of the Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers who are obstructing the movement of transportation across Bank Street on Lutheran Street? [[Applause]] . How many criminal cases have been committed to prevent traffic in Crimea and in all other areas of Ukraine? On what basis do you act under one law with respect to ordinary citizens and with regard to state officials under other laws? Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I want to remind you that there was a request in this room two weeks ago, including to you, from the Tomenka People's Deputy, who was supported by the Supreme Council, to prevent traffic. It's been 14 days, but unfortunately, there's no answer from your office or from the Ministry of Internal Affairs until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u119	Well, that's your request I consider a statement and a report of a crime, isn't it? Please take off a copy of the transcript, and from now on we're starting to deal with this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u120	The word is given to roadside Alexander Viktorovich. Behind him is Baburin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u121	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[electoral district 213, Kiev]] Thank you. Dear Stanislav Mikhailovich! I have questions that are simple and somewhat formal, but they're coming out of the constitutional competence of the Attorney General's Office. First. Please tell me, what time was the request for the rally? The other one. Were the streets of Bankow and Gruszewski indicated in the application? Here are the simple questions, and if you can answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u122	I know that there is a decision by the Shevchenkov District Court to prohibit a rally on these streets.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u123	Baburin. Behind him is Melnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u124	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Replica to the Minister of the Interior. You acted like a fascist on June 22, 1941, at exactly four o'clock in the morning. I now give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u125	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u126	The Communist faction. First of all, I would like to inform you whether article 344 refers not only to the President, but to us, to the people's deputies. Why do you not then violate a criminal case against the IMF, specifically against the minister in connection with the fact that he banned or prevented us from carrying out the duties of national deputies? We're with our constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u127	Is that a statement?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u128	I'm sorry, but you broke the case for the fact, and against us, the national MPs, you acted. Secondly, I'd like to warn you, Saint Nicholas, you're the first Attorney General in the history of an independent Ukraine to break political affairs, you're the first Attorney General. Next. I'm asking you right now to file a criminal case against the interior minister who's in charge of the High Town, 85 in his own residence, a mansion, and 1 million 700,000 dollars that he needs to get to the police, he gets furniture. Please get rid of how he used Naftogaz Ukraine to buy cars through a charity fund to direct the families of the dead and how overestimated cars were. I'd like to hear how you do it? Why don't you take care of yourself, these are state affairs? Then I'd like to hear an answer from you as a lawyer. At 19 p.m., the tents were set up, why did they start operating only at four o’clock in the morning? I was in charge, I was standing there, why didn't I see the bailiffs? Why didn't anyone come to us and tell us that this is a court decision, we're warning you? And they threw it at us. Figure out why the bag was made, and people had nowhere to get out of this territory. What are you talking about here, Saint Michael?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u129	Let me explain. What I understood about the Foreign Minister. [[B in m in s a l in]] Internal Affairs? Well, I guess you won't mind if we check out the foreign minister. As for the Home Secretary, I'm hearing this for the first time, and if this is an official statement, I'm asking for 10 days, and there's going to be a report on this application. That's the first one. And the second question. The point is that in a criminal case involving obstruction of traffic and the blocking of transport communications, the internal affairs investigator ordered the removal of obstacles and the blocking of communications and the commission to remove obstacles. Therefore, the internal affairs authorities had the right to act not only on the basis of the court’s decision but also on the basis of the decision of the investigator to remove the obstacles. Whether the investigator did it right or not, we're looking into it right now, but that's the decision that's been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u130	Well, that means they did the wrong thing, they should have shown it. I've been dealing with this. I asked: If the court’s decision was appealed, on what basis was it tolerated? I was shown the order of the investigator. All right, I've got my hands wide open.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u131	The word is given to Melnik, the final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u132	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please pass the word to Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u133	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u134	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Mr. Piscoon! I have a few questions for you, please answer in a concise manner. First. What investigator is involved in a criminal case that I hope you've committed before about the beating up of the National Deputy Grzezhev? If this is not done, when specifically do you break a criminal case? The second question. What investigator is involved in the illegal possession of more than two days of protestor boys who were in prison with more than three days of criminal activity? There was no court decision to extend the prison term, and the Deputy Attorney General confirmed it to me. Who does this, and when will the investigation be completed? Question three. Who's going to answer the 38th year methods when I'm found in Donetsk at 8am asking me who's funding the stock, how I'm going to get to Kiev, and what do I think I'm going to do there? Who will be responsible for the illegal interrogations of the national deputies at 8 a.m.? Thousands of people were being interrogated, and you haven't waited ten days for that. As soon as Medvedchuk gave you instructions on the new 58th article on anti-Soviet, oh, I'm sorry, anti-presidential agitation, you did it on an urgent basis at night.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u135	No one gave me instructions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u136	The fourth questions. How could I have interfered with Mr. Kuchma if he was in Salzburg at the time? My advice to you is to bring a criminal case to a place that has prevented him from dancing for the past 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u137	Answer. In connection with interrogations. You're not the first to break that question. Honorable National Deputies, according to article 63 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is clearly explained to everyone who is being questioned, you too, Mr. Lucenko, have the right to refuse to show and not give them about yourself and your loved ones. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, those who showed up, they didn't refuse to give them. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't know what I was driving at night, I'll take care of it. But each interrogation says that article 63 is familiar with both the signature and the signature. In every interrogation, I looked around.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u138	Reverend Mikhailovich, time is up. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u140	Reverend Mikhailovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u141	Dear friends! I only have one question for the prosecutor, so don't let him go now. I want to ask him, what time is it? And to show you, as Attorney General, that he has a watch in his hand that costs more than $10,000, that's Vasheron Constantine. [[I'm in my watch, believe me, an expert.]] And I want to ask this prosecutor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u142	Turn off the microphone, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! Calm down! Reverend Mikhailovich, please don't do this. Several names were called here. Filthy. Please. The replica. In one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u143	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues! I formally state that all that has been reported here by both the Attorney-General and the Minister of the Interior is a lie of pure water. The fact that I was beaten is clear. And the fact that they are not taking any action is also clear. This shows that the system of power that we now have in Ukraine decomposes everyone and everything, including the highest in the State. I'm ashamed of our Attorney General and Minister of the Interior! I have spent my whole life in Ukraine, I have three orders, including one to deal with the consequences of an accident, and if I have such an attitude on the part of officials, what can be said about ordinary citizens?Oh, my God! Shame and shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u144	Solomon’s word is given. One minute, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u145	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! On the night of September 16th and 17, in the presence of many law enforcement officials, officials, television cameras on the street corner of the Institute and Banks, a physical attack was carried out for me by a civilian. No one helped me, although I constantly emphasized that I was the Ukrainian national deputy, demonstrating my identity card and even my badge. Then in the crowd, I searched for this person and took some pictures. In my current request to the Attorney General of Ukraine, there's a photo of this person, and there's a picture on this disk. I'm asking you, colleagues, to give you the opportunity to demonstrate the face of the man who attacked me right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u146	Have a seat, please. Several factions signed up for the performances from the rostrum. Please sign up for the procedure. Lighten up. Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u147	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Please pass the word Kravchenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u148	Cowchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u149	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Gennady Andreevich! I've taken the floor from the procedure to address you. Right now, you are acting as a speaker, and your duties include the protection of the honour of Parliament. Today, the so-called Minister and so-called Attorney General have been trampled on all the people's deputies without exception. You protected them from the MPs, you did everything you could to protect them from the MPs. Therefore, take this as a comment, and, in the end, if we are building a democratic country, we should be concerned about the honour and dignity of the supreme State legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u150	First of all, I have to follow the Rules, which I do, only according to the Rules. And I ask everyone to abide by the Rules. The word is given to Komaru. Mikolo Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u151	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[constituency 51, Donetsk Region]] Thank you. Mr. Turkinov, please sit down. The clock should not be displayed. Dear colleagues, I don't know who, but I'm uncomfortable in this room. Let's act like an MP. And you don't want to be an MP, just like decent people who come together and respect each other. Understand, no one will respect you if you do not respect those around you. And if you want to be respected, respect everyone, including the presiding officer. I suggest that we act as normal, decent people do. The broadcast is coming, people are hearing and seeing what's happening. And the proposal is specific, Hennady Andriyovich. This third floor If the assistant comes to see what's going on here, let him watch, but don't let him cry, he'll stop us from working in the hall! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u152	The widow of Gennady Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u153	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Hennady Andriyovich! You just said that you have a list of speakers on this subject before you put the word in order of conduct. That's an important question, I didn't hear you announce in the hall a recording of the statement on this issue. Please put me on this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u154	Gennady Josephovich, a member of the secretariat, submits applications in writing. If there's a need to step out of the faction, I'll take care of it. The word is given to Taran. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u155	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Please give the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u156	Turn on the Turkinov microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u157	Dear Chairman! I very much ask you not to violate the Rules. When specific national MPs are insulted, you are obliged to give them the word for replication. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues! And the Minister of the Interior, and the Attorney General are liars and provokers. [[I'm telling them to their faces.]] There was no court decision regarding the removal of the tile and tents on Lutheran and Institutional streets. At night, while hiding, the Force launched an attack on unarmed people. In spite of the rain, even umbrellas were placed in place so that they would not be accused of anything. They were beaten with sticks, and national MPs were beaten with them. This is the face of Kuchma and his surroundings. Mr. Piscoon, I personally tell you to your face: you're a liar. [[He hasn't hidden yet? Yes.]] Dear colleagues! My assistant was illegally detained. He didn't have any dollars on him during the search. Mr. Piscoon lied all over Ukraine, and all the government channels kept saying that he was carrying hundreds of thousands to the party office. It's a lie, and I demand that the Sandman correct this lie publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u158	Pavlovsky. A replica called the last name. And then we're done, and we're out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u159	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear friends, there is very little time. I want to say that neither the Minister of Internal Affairs nor the Attorney-General know that there is a Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, so I give them one copy of this law. That's the first one. The other one. I'm passing on the application I signed. [[I can't read it because there's no time]] There are no bridges mentioned here, nothing to mention, only that we will move from the seat of the congregation - Sofia Square to the appropriate streets to the European square and take care of both Gruszewski and the President's Administration. We've all indicated that there are no bridges here. As a document, I'm handing over a copy of this application to the presidency. We objected to the court's decision, and here's the protest, so it's gone. And the third. Using the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, a group of deputies made a new application with reference to article 28, paragraph 7, which states that the local administration is obliged to ensure that national deputies meet with the electorate, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the U.S.S.A. should ensure security. That's why we have reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u160	Turn off the microphone, time's up. Have a seat, please. The word for a talk from the faction is given to Bastriza, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine". While Ivan Mikhailovich is coming, I'd like to give you a hint. The following was prepared: "As a result of the action that took place on 16 September of this year, 17 appeals have been registered in the Department of Citizens of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the inhabitants of the town of Kiev, who live in the Pecher region, asking to intervene and take appropriate measures to stop the holding in the nearby territory of actions and mass actions that lead to a breach of public order." Please, Ivan Mikhailovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u161	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[constituency 80, Zaporezki region]] I speak for the first time in the Supreme Council, and I think there is a presence in this room. Can you shut up? If you're a well-trained and well-mannered man, please be quiet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Fortunately, because of my operations, this enterprise has 7 per cent of its production against the best years of the Soviet Union in 11 years. That's good luck. [[Applause]] I fully share the position taken today by the leader of the faction "Our Ukraine" Yushchenko. Only in this room can we come to a solution to the problems that we must deal with with you in front of the people of Ukraine. We are practically engaged in destructive activities today. I speak after the information of the Minister-General and the Minister-General. Yes, unfortunately, those leaders in the State who do not hand over the confetti have never had a positive response from the citizens, because they are on guard against the law and command an army of the same poor as many Ukrainian citizens. [[If not by army, by huge units]] Today, we must, the distinguished Petr Nikolayevich, our intellect, the respected Yulia Vladimirovna, direct our knowledge to realize the potential that has been built up in this room. Yes, today we see many violations, we see many mistakes in the administration of the state by the President, by the Government that do not comply and sometimes repeal our laws. Because if we analyze the implementation of laws, government orders and Presidential decrees, there will be a very low percentage of the documents that are being implemented. That's where our trouble lies! What do we do for a very long time today? That's why I'm addressing you. I know you all very well. You know me very well. Let's do the construction. Yes, political frenzy, it will be until we finish it, we will never move forward in the economy and people will never see from us the good they expect. How to do that, we know, we know. Let's sit at the negotiating table. Legislative action is needed to achieve the stated objective. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u162	Thank you. Timoshenko's block. Behind her is the Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich of the faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u163	Dear friends! I'd like to finish my line, and I'll end it like this. If the Attorney General is an honest man, let him take off his watch right now, which is called Vasheron Constantine, in the platinum shell, without the Turpinion, and give it to the head of the regulatory committee to do the expertise. I'm telling you, it's not a simple thing, it costs $10,000. And I started my speech just to make us realize that if the Attorney-General of Ukraine, when he gets 300 dollars of salary, he wears a $10,000 watch, we have to ask the question that we have the highest authority in Ukraine -- and the President, and the Attorney-General, and the Minister of Internal Affairs is the only criminal team. [[You see, he went away and left the watch, if he were an honest man, he would have left!]] We know that today, for all of the laws that are going on, there's only one roof -- it's the roof of the power structures. And considering that we are now listening to this question, I ask the factions that voted in favour of the Attorney General to reconsider their decision, taking into account the situation, their reports and actions, and to release the Attorney General from his post. [[part "Our Ukraine", part faction of the Communist Party]] The same is true of the minister of the interior — the man who ordered the rods of civilians to be broken. I want to testify again, I was there, that the elderly, young people have been brutally beaten, and we have all the documentary evidence of it. If we leave in power today, especially in the power structures, such people, then we don't have to complain later that criminal cases are being unlawfully committed, including against members of the presidential majority, of the fact that they are violating criminal cases against the national MPs of our Ukraine. [[Whether you're a pro-President or a centrist or an opposition]] I want to tell you that these people are not alone, they're just weapons, tools in the hands of the President. That is why I ask the deputies today to act adequately, protecting Ukraine, not themselves, and to vote in favour of the discharge of the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs. The Attorney General's Parliament has the right to record and the Minister of Internal Affairs to advise the President of his release. Please put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u164	Sit down, we're out of time. Moroz Alexander Aleksandrovich, faction of the Socialist Party. After him, Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u165	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! I've spent four years in Parliament, there's never been such a shame in the debate on a particular issue that the invited officials left the hall and demonstrated that what you want to say is not our concern. You must now ensure the presence of the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u166	Helpful: The Attorney General announced that he had to leave because he had a flight at 2:30 p.m. As for the Minister of Internal Affairs, we will now find out. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u167	Please consider this outside my deadline, this is the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u168	The minister's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u169	Secondly, I'm the co-author of the draft decision on this issue, and as a co-author, I have the right to report, so I insist on five minutes of time and I'll use them. I'll only say those. Today in Ukraine, the systemic crisis, everyone knows that, and the reason for this systemic crisis is the weak system of power as a result of the usurpation of power by the President. He himself has to admit that the political system needs to be reformed, but nothing is going to do about it, so he's protesting "Rise, Ukraine!" They're just about to change the system of power starting with the resignation of the President. Not as a guarantor, as the Attorney General said, but as a guarantor of compliance with the Constitution, but he is the first to break the Constitution. I've done a lot of things. He can talk about right now in Odessa, on TV about what we're doing in this country, especially in agriculture. I'm sorry, it's only a person who's completely out of the picture. What progress is there that threatens Europe with our grain? The threat is created by our grain because the middlemen have taken it to the peasants for no price, and the state will have absolutely nothing to do with it. There's a lot of examples like that again. We now have a film about how 350 million dollars for Russian-implemented bombers have been adapted and hidden abroad. We have evidence that 3.5 billion dollars for the implementation of warheads into Russia has been stolen, stolen. Part of the culprits are currently in prison abroad, I've already talked about it, part of it is right here in Banks. The thing is, it's pension money for all our pensioners for a year. This is the face of power, so I insist that films be shown here that say why this power needs to be changed, by the way, and the stories that relate to beating people around Bank Street on the night of September 17th. I insist that we vote. Next. I'm talking to the majority first. The director of the Bastrig factory, a man of authority, was now speaking. I understand he's worried, just like many others, and what Victor Andryovich said is yes. But listen, how much will we protect criminals, thinking that we are saving the cause, saving Ukraine? Now the water division is either Kuchma or Ukraine. Let's save the nation! You are all with experience and conscience! And those who had manufacturing experience and who were rewarded, and all who were present: Why do we sacrifice our faces, our futures, in order that the group of the worlds may beat themselves in power, destroy the fate of the people? [[Here's Yuchim Leonidovich, the Socialist Work Hero, who got that title for real work, then people didn't die, because there was money to protect the work, and there were guarantees for that.]] After all, we are asked, you will be ashamed of what you did not do when you needed to do it. That is why I insist: our draft decree and the Minister's release to vote today. And I would like to reiterate, turning to everyone: the junta in Ukraine will not pass unless it is protected by those who depend on this junta!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u170	I ask everyone to abide by the Rules. The word is given to Dobkin Mikhail Markovich. After him, he's a kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the recent situation in the country, I would like to say so. The political struggle is not bad or even necessary. The political powers of the State should be able to express the thoughts and ideas of the population, the electorate who delegated their powers to them. And they, our constituents, only hope that we will care for their wealth, security, peace in the state. However, it has become a bad way to openly abuse the trust of the people of Ukraine. For the sake of a questionable political advantage, some respected politicians are willing to break any laws. Few civilized methods, including unscrupulous provocations, are not rejected. Yes, I consider the events of September 16 near the President's Administration to be a provocation. When someone does not like the President or his environment, they are civilized, recognized by the traditions of Europe as ways of fighting. Finally, there is the law that we serve. However, those respected politicians allowed themselves not to see the legal decision of the court and led others, often indifferent to all the participants. Starting with their basic disrespect for the law, they moved on to specific measures that threatened public safety, including roadblocks in difficult weather conditions. When the police got in the way of it, it became as far as we were concerned. That's why I find it inappropriate, and even to some extent absurd, to charge the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Who, apart from the police, should have put order in the city, and in our interests with you? As for the demolition of the tent town, I would like to point out that it was borne by the employees of the State Executive Service Department, and the police provided them with appropriate assistance under the law. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u172	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u173	Did you see me there?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u174	Just because you didn't see it doesn't mean I wasn't there. Let's respect each other. [[The voice from the hall. What if you're lying about Ukraine?]] Joseph Vicentiovich, I thought you were a very good and reasonable man. I've never seen you like this before. What's going on with you people? Dogs, some deputies, I'm talking about. And if anyone doesn't like it, there's a time to answer from this rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u175	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u176	Let's make sure the police protect all of us, and first of all the opposition, you. And don't turn people who risk their lives every day for the sake of our peace into a political tool to fight. This is going to be that honest democracy that we're all so loyal to. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u177	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The word is given to Kaletnik. After him, Philenko. Is there a Corporal Grigory Mikolaiovich? Philenko Volodymyr Pilipovich. After Philenck, Bandurka. From the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u178	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear National Deputies! Your Honor is presiding! I have as many questions as I want to add to the questions I have been asked by the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs. One brief example. A week ago, I got into a traffic jam that happened because of an accident in Moscow Square. The first officer appeared there in 40 minutes. About 6,000 armed with militia teeth were on time in Banks, you know where. Conclusion: The police are not prepared, as we are persuaded, to fight for the rule of law, and the police are prepared to fight their own people. This is the only time I've ever seen the police act in an organized and professional manner. In other cases, they do not work so professionally. I would advise Prime Minister Kinach to count the money that is not budgeted as a result of his illegal orders, not through participants in the demonstrations. Who dropped the gun? We didn't get any answers. And so on and so forth. Now essentially. On September 16, people came out, no matter what they said, and no matter how much they lied about the number, many came out. And it'll come out even more. Because the opposition in Ukraine is not ideological, but essentially political and social. There is a confrontation between the majority of the poor and a bunch of oligarchs led by Cuchma. Kuchma, the great reformer, has reformed the interests of his immediate environment by throwing away millions of Ukrainian people in poverty, 7 million citizens have already gone abroad to find a better life. Why were they afraid? They feared that for the first time in Ukraine, various political forces had united to defend the interests of the majority of the population of Ukraine. History knows such examples when left and right were united in order to drive the gang out of power and then to find out who was best among them in honest democratic contests. That's what they're most afraid of. The leaders of the four political forces, who have received total support from more than 60 percent of the population and are a legitimate political power, legitimate political power, have to start creating an alternative power center and start building it in Parliament. He'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he won't go into the history of Ukraine, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, he'll go, You, the President, decide whether you can chew on the umbilical cord that connects you to Kuchma, whether you want to be his "splits," or whether you're ready to drop the bat that many of you have imposed. [[I didn't pick up a word in Ukrainian.]] Or maybe you're not afraid of Kushma, maybe you just don't want to walk away from the trough. Whoever grew up in the village, saw 10-11 grow up to the trough, their grandmother beats them with a stick, and they go back to the trough -- they want it so bad. Well, they're brainless, they're creatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u179	The word is given to Bandur to Alexander Markovich. After him, Simonenko. Is there a Bandur? Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Please. Behind him is Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens who listen to us, who are present today under the walls of the Supreme Council! There are some who make us feel that we are a destructive political force and draw attention to the need to work together today. It's a pity that Mikola Stepanovich Komar left now, and I would remind him how he, as the head of the Reich administration, helped to beat up the villagers. When a thug took the land, he urged the peasants to be beaten. Who are you speaking against now, Mikolo Stepanovich? Or maybe, Ivan Mikhailovich, you remember when you came to the election at the C.C. Party and you told me about those who kicked you out of the factory when they made you "honorary president" and "unevenly" you chased you out of the factory. What are you now, citizens of Ukraine who have the status of national deputies? Or should we ask Viktor Mikhailovich where his property came from for almost $7 billion? Maybe he made them at the gold mines? Are these the tears of the people of Ukraine? And who are you pushing to fight against his own people in pursuits on behalf of the people of Ukraine? It's about the main thing -- that the principles of democracy, the principles of freedom of speech and human rights are being destroyed today. They created the funds, and you're counting the criminal money on them, and they're living on them now. Private stock is poor, he collects coins. And it was right in Odessa that they did not go against their own people, that the colonels there persecuted the people of Ukraine. As many foundations as were created, criminal money is transferred there. Is it a state? We are not paying attention today to the fact that the minister has already taken his stand against the President himself. But when he was on TV, he said, "They'll be sick, too." So this is the electorate of the President who chose him. [[Applause]] Dear, dear, you have forced people to vote in prison. Why do you now resent them for betraying the President, and today they are speaking against him? We need to understand that today the threat to Ukraine lies in the present power of crime. Today, it acts as a criminal tool, doing everything it can to protect what has been stolen. There are many of you leaders from my home district of Donetsk. I know what you were like. What are you doing with your own people? What do you sing about when they destroy the Donetsk region? And who destroys, we know. And we know who sent you here. And what kind of money did they come here for? Don't take me out, or I'll tell you where the banks are, I'll tell you all about it. [[Applause]] We have a choice today with you, and enough here to tell you who and how. An honest entrepreneur can work honestly, we won't interfere with him, and if a thief is covering for him today, we have to put an end to it. We can't have that kind of power in Ukraine! We need to get things straight and put order in the state so that people can live in peace. To let them know that they will feed their own family, which is an opportunity for our young and many others to exist. That's why I'm addressing everyone who's under pressure today: I know you've been bloodstained with the President, but it's the blood of our people. If you were to sign off on your own, you would have your right and you would have signed off with the blood of the people. That is why I urge today to make a decision, vote, and remove this minister from his duties. He cannot be a minister, for he is coming against his own people today, throwing thousands of people to destruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u181	The word is given by Oneichuku Mikoli Vasilovich. Get ready for John. Stick to the time limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! The phenomenon that we're discussing today, I'm talking about the involvement of law enforcement agencies in order to hold meetings, demonstrations, that is, when we're talking about citizens' political rights, is not really Ukrainian. I think that all societies, including those we're proud of today and those we're equal to, have been going through it anyway. Of course, today’s discussion must make us consider some standards of understanding of where there is a limit to political freedom and where there is a law that protects the interests of civil society and public institutions. Winston Churchill also said that democracy is evil, but no better society has come up with anything. And I think that when we're solving this issue today, we're discussing in the hall, we need to get out of the way that maybe we shouldn't shock the law enforcement agencies, because these are the guys we see in the streets, and we know which families they are, and we need to think about how to make this standard -- when and what to do with the rule of law -- apply automatically so that neither the minister nor any other law enforcement chief would expect anyone to be on the team. In that sense, I want to make two suggestions. First offer. I think that our discussion today would still be more effective if we first decided to set up a special commission of inquiry, as approved by the Conciliation Council, had entrusted it with conducting an investigation, reported on the findings. And only on this basis will the final decision be made. Maybe today we don't make any decisions about it, but we do have to wait for those conclusions. Option two. I think we have the right today to ask the Attorney General to consider retraining if they really did happen on the part of the rallyers. What do you mean? The creation of roadblocks is not only a criminal offence but also an administrative one. And I'd like to draw the attention of the representatives of the various political powers, because if we swapped them in places today, we don't know if they would do the same. Maybe that's right. So here's the suggestion that we do ask the question of whether criminal offences can be reclassified from administrative to administrative, because current legislation allows this to be done. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that valid laws adopted by the Supreme Council are allowed without a court ruling, I stress this, in cases where such obstacles are created, to stop administrative offences, including by dismantling such obstacles, and to apply administrative responsibility. [[Code on Administrative Offences, Bills of Police]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u183	Ivanov Sergey Anatolyovich. Behind him is Kravchuk Leonid Makarovich. Reference to a criminal or administrative offence. There's no need to interpret legislation now. According to the Constitutional Court’s decision, Parliament cannot interfere with the activities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the investigating authorities, the Ministry of Justice. That's what I'm talking about. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u184	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[constituency 3, Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I think we've been worried about these things together: someone took an active part in them, someone was watching from the side before it all ended, someone was making fun of them. But final one: we are sitting here today and instead of adopting laws, we are putting these events as the cornerstone of today's agenda. And we've only been working half a day to figure out who's right and who's to blame. Believe me, I've spoken to many police officers and received a negative assessment of all these events. They say that, according to all the laws we enact in Parliament, they are obliged to fight crime, and only a small part are delegated to the protection of public order. But it turns out that the whole militia does not deal with the detection of crimes, but with the protection of our political activities. I'd like to draw your attention to the next one today. On the one hand, there are constant proposals to replace the Minister. You'll remember, Kravchenko was standing on this stand, standing before Kravchenko's minister here, and all these ten years, there was the same question of replacing the minister, because he's not doing the same thing, the same thing. But to date, the Ministry of the Interior is working in the field of laws that we have drawn up here. And if today, when a police officer enters public order, he faces passive disobedience, he is obliged to take action, all the way to physical impact. But let a police officer try to take these measures from one end to the other, and we'll hear rumors of a violation of the laws, and the issue of criminal proceedings will be raised. Let us say once and for all: The slightest violation of the law by any party must be punished unconditionally. And if the MP goes out today and says he's been beaten up, he's had to make a statement, but he didn't, it's just a political frenzy. There's a statement -- it's supposed to work, there's no material -- we don't have to waste our time here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u185	Thank you. Kravczuk Leonid Makarovich, faction of SDPU. Please. Behind him is Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u186	I keep trying to find out: What are we discussing? There was an opening session, and we were discussing, as I understood, the political situation, although no one included the issue in the agenda. No one changed the order of today's meeting of the Supreme Council, which raises the question: "To comply with current legislation during the September 16, 2002, "Resurrection, Ukraine!" Its participants and law enforcement agencies." What, are we discussing this issue? Again, we continue to discuss what, even the cost of the Attorney General's watch, is unknown. [[B in m in s a l in]] I think if we went the other way, let's say we had the regulatory committee look at the people's deputies' watches and if we went to the underwear, it would be very interesting, and I think the number of members of the regulatory committee would increase dramatically. I want them not to do the show. A very serious question, there is no indifference to what is happening today in Ukraine. You want the Home Secretary's resignations? So put questions into the agenda, let him make a report, and then you can vote. Don't push the MPs before they break the Rules. This is not necessary because there are emotions, but there is a real situation in Ukraine. It needs to be discussed, and we stand for an open, open dialogue of power with the opposition, with citizens through the media. We are here to find out all the complex accents that are now in Ukraine. But I will not vote in favour of a draft decree that has no legal force that has no legal force that is contrary to the Constitution. That's why I'm addressing the presidency at this point: don't throw a rally from the Supreme Council meeting. Everything in the Supreme Council is decided by a vote. There's a problem-- put it to a vote, there's a violation of the Rules-- don't let it. And just like that, there's no need for a rally in the Supreme Council to put the Supreme Council in a smile situation. We've all been chosen by the people, we're all accountable to the people, and let's follow the Constitution and the Rules. And no one, whether with greater power of voice or less, can impose on the Supreme Council its positions that are contrary to the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u187	Thank you, Leonid Makarovich. The word is given to Bandur to Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u188	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! In order to avoid conflict during mass political action or other -cultural, mass, sports, religious, we, the Ukrainian National Deputies, need to regulate the legal relationship that arises in the conduct of such measures. Since we do not have such standards today or are imperfect, the self - creation that mass - stock organizers and law - enforcement agencies use today gives rise to conflict situations that we are considering today. The Minister of Internal Affairs here has already said that the Peace Congregations Law is needed. Yes, we do, we've been talking about him for several years, and the three laws on peaceful assembly lie here in the Annals of the Supreme Council. In addition, those who are so well - placed today are often opposed to these laws, which would eliminate contradictions. The Peace Congregations Act should regulate the implementation of measures involving a large number of people, the identification of order, responsibility and ultimately the whole technology of their implementation. In the Political Parties Act, it is necessary to determine the authority, role and responsibility of organizers of mass political action. In the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, and it needs to be updated in general, determine the authority of local self-government authorities to ensure mass action. [[location, timing, routes, order security]] Today, where these measures would not take place, local self - government authorities have been removed from the decision - making process. There is also a need for adoption of the Law on the Police of Local Self - Rule. What is the situation today? I was not the minister by accident, and the Attorney General asked who was the law enforcement provider. And the Office for Combating Economic Crime, and the Office for Combating Organized Crime, and the State Inspectorate, and the State Security Service, they're all being diverted into providing mass action, and that's what the local government police should be doing. It is for local authorities to determine who, where, and when to take action. Nor should the minister think which street to cover. And finally, I think that the Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee on Law Enforcement and other Committees could propose amendments to existing laws in order to address the conflict situations that occur every time mass action takes place. Dear National Deputies! It's easier to blame the police. I'm told: a general of the police, a militiaman. Yeah, I was him and I'm staying, but here I am acting as a national deputy. Honorable National Deputies, Colleagues and Friends! Why is the police here if the leaders of political parties and authorities are unable to determine the relationship between themselves? You know, like a bad mother-in-law, who's to blame is a daughter-in-law. And we have, who's to blame is the police. And to those who scream, I want to say, "something on the mirror is foaming when the flower is curved." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u189	Dear colleagues! The time spent on this subject has been exhausted. Several factions proposed a motion for a temporary commission of inquiry. The vote on this issue will take place on Thursday. A break of 16 hours is announced. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m0.u190	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Let none of us deceive ourselves, as if on September 16 and in the morning of September 17, nothing special happened, as if nothing special were happening right now. I dare say that Ukraine has changed in recent weeks. It may not feel so good in government buildings, beyond the dependable boundaries of the guards, but it is no longer visible in the streets and squares. Over the past few months, I have traveled all over Ukraine, without exaggeration, so I speak with complete responsibility: the slogans you hear from the street today are not the whims of "buying offended opponents." This is indeed the voice of the Ukrainian people, this is the unanimous desire of the people that are now flying from Uzhgorod to Luhansk, from Chernigov to Sevastopol. After all, without exception, recent sociological research has shown that more than 70 percent of Ukrainian voters support Leonid Kuchma’s early retirement. And with that, real politicians have no right not to count. I don't randomly personalize today the question of how it's personalized and the authors of the draft decision you've been given. Because Leonid Kuchma in the eyes of society has long ceased to be a president who someone might like and someone might not like, but who should be respected because he is the one who is embodying the law. Unfortunately, our President is only a man of lawlessness and conspiracies. And that's what the events of September 16th to 17th demonstrated. Unfortunately, Leonid Kuchma has long turned into a brake for everything progressive. [[Let's just mention the list of "contributed" or simply without any explanation of the unsigned laws.]] What's worse: Leonid Kuchma takes away people's faith in the prospect of a better tomorrow. Everyone here understands that. Yeah, I wasn't wrong -- most of my colleagues on the benches of the former "Ukrainian" and "SDPU" think exactly the same as me. The only difference between us is that I dare to express my thoughts out loud, because the feeling of responsibility for the future of my sons, my granddaughter, has long been in my fear, and you are still silent because you are being burdened by the conditions of addiction and pressure. But we cannot keep quiet forever. The Ukrainian people are already waking up. Finally, you, his chosen ones, should wake up. Today, the people want to live more than anything else. He understands that with this predator, anti - Ukrainian, he will no longer have the authority of human life. It's going to be like today: total conspiracies, total censorship, total defenselessness, total poverty. Re-painting the facade of a government house in a rainbow democratic color will do nothing. First of all, we need to put away all the incredible filth of absolute moral degradation of the people of the power corridors, and finally, we need to destroy the grim cassemats, as the French and their Bastille did more than two hundred years ago. Therefore, let some in this room not be deceived by signing several mutually exclusive documents during the day. It's not possible to make a deal with this mode. There is no prospect of talking about any democratic reforms in the country led by Kuchma. I'm sorry, it's the same as if someone in their own time was defending the denification under the direction of Adolf Hitler or the destalinization under the direction of Joseph Stalin. So before signing any documents with Kuchma, imagine yourself as a "democratic" prime minister led by a "führer" or a "boss" and do not make any mistakes that interfere with the outright betrayal of the expectations of millions of people. Remember, as early as the 13th century, not only the English but also the Hungarians at the level of law gave us the right to remove their monarch if he violates the law and turns into a tyrant. And today we have not the 13th, but the 21st century. Even the court ossuaries to proclaim Leonid Danilovich had not come up with a monarch. Let us remember, after all, our ancestors with you, who have not hesitated to remove the bad ghettos and baskets. I therefore urge you to support the proposal by Alexander Moroz, Peter Simonenko and Julia Timoshenko of the Political Decision in Ukraine and to take the first step towards a peaceful and legitimate solution to today's crisis. Otherwise, we're going to have a Romanian version -- uncontrollable and bloody. And God forbid we let him. Thank you for your attention.
