ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u1	Have a seat. Have a seat, please. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:43]] Registered -388 There were 388 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Bondar Volodymyr Nalkovic. Let us welcome him, wish him happiness, wish him health, best of all. [[Applause]] In harmony with article 2.5.2. Wednesday's regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. I'd like the National MPs to sign up for statements and messages, and I'm announcing the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Alexia Kozachenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the irregularity of the State Committee’s instruction on land resources regarding the establishment of a temporary order for the formation and maintenance of the database of an automated system of government land cadastre. Please vote for the direction. [[10:04:24]] Z-91 Decision taken. Groups of national deputies - Balog and others - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the network of narrow-track railways in Zakarpat, Ivano-Frankovish and Lvivščina to use them to further develop tourism and strengthen the economy of the Carpathian region. Please vote. [[10:05:00]] For 199 Decision taken. Anatoly of Moroz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the preservation from the liquidation of Ukraine's only unique diesel company, VAT "Posdendizelmash", the city of Tokmak Zaporez Region. Please vote. [[10:05:32]] For-160. Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the requirements of the rock stockholders of the airline "Ukrainian Airlines". Please vote. [[10:06:00]] For-143 Decision taken. Anatolia Moroz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding land management and land acquisition by residents of the villages of Lake Lake and Cornievka in the Zaporozhye region, in line with the current legislation of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:06:32]] For-161 Decision taken. Anatolia Polita to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the ignoring of the Kyrovograd Regional Administration of Emergency Problems and the addressing of the district centre of labour and social rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. Please vote. [[10:07:05]] For-174 Decision taken. Vladimir Kozakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal actions against participants in the All-Ukrainian campaign "Resurrence, Ukraine!" in Kirovograd district. Please vote. [[10:07:35]] For-147 The decision is taken, for -147. Valery Desert Stunk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki after the election of the city head. Please make up your mind. [[10:08:03]] For 105 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on abuse of office, forgeries, tax evasion, concealment of funds in offshore areas, gross violations of legislation by individual officials of the National Television Company. Please make up your mind. [[10:08:40]] For-144 For -144, the decision is made. Peter Simonenck to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the decision taken by the Luhansk District Attorney’s Office in the case of Helen of the Coast. Please vote. [[10:09:08]] For-141 For -141, the decision is made. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine by members of the Attorney General's Office, effective legislation when considering citizens' claims and parliamentary appeals regarding the falsification of the abuse of office by the god of internal affairs officials and the Prosecutor's Office of the Kharkiv District in criminal proceedings. Please vote. [[10:09:51]] For-136 Decision taken. Teams of deputies from Semenyuk, Vernigor, and others to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction of the response to the request for violations during the dismantling of tents on September 17 of this year. Please make up your mind. [[10:10:22]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Ukrainian Minister of Health in connection with the dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request for medical care for the resident of Novoyavrovsk Lvivsk district, who was on the verge of death and for the conduct of an examination of the activities of the Health Administration of the Lviv District State Administration. Please make up your mind. [[10:11:03]] For 158. In 158, the decision is made. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on illegal actions against participants in the All-Ukrainian campaign "Resurrence, Ukraine!" in Kirovograd district. Please make up your mind. [[10:11:30.]] For-152. For -152. Decision taken. Mikhaila Radionova to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury of Ukraine, on the financing of the construction of the hospital for 150 beds and a special medical unit, number 11 of the Ministry of Health, provided for by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decree of April 19th of this year. Please vote. [[10:12:06]] For-147 For - 147. Decision taken. The Gennady of Rudenka to the head of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors on the conduct of a review of the activities of the National Shareholder Company Ukraine, such as the NII, the administrative and financial arrangements for the efficiency and purpose of spending budget and non-budgetary resources over the last three years. Please make up your mind. [[10:12:45.]] For a hundred and For -156. Decision taken. Mikhail Radionova to the head of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine for the verification of the Industrial Union of the Ukraprotez. Please make up your mind. [[10:13:10]] For the 120th. To 120. Decision taken. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Natanyov village head of the Zaporozhye region in connection with the lack of response to the parliamentary appeal regarding the decision of the village council regarding the rental of the field - obstetrics post. Please vote. [[10:13:41]] For-89 For -89. The decision is not taken. Request announcement complete. Please explain the list of speakers. The word is given to Polishchuk Mikoli Efremovich, prepare for Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u2	Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergio Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u3	Please turn on the Soboljeva microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u4	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I'd like to address you on the point that it's been almost two weeks now since the moment. I'm addressing the chairman, please don't disturb him, Mr. Nikolayenko. In view of the fact that two weeks ago the Head of the Supreme Council or, as article 4.2.2, the chairman of the session should have announced that the faction "For the One Ukraine" had been dissolved. So far, this has not been done. So I would ask you, as chairman, to perform this function, especially as today's Food Day, to welcome everyone with the release of such a faction. It's different. After the prisoners who had been printed by the President’s Administration in charge of Medvechuk for the media, the district authorities, specifically in the Zaporez region, continued this shameful practice. Yes, the whole series of issues in the Zaporozhye region came up with the desire to print material on the activities of the district administration, which has no problems, and also about the activities of the faction "Our Ukraine", the Communist faction, the Socialist faction, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. These materials are open - minded, provocative in nature. I'm not saying that there are open anti-Semitic calls in the entire series of materials. That's why I'd like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that this kind of darkener practice, when it comes to not only the topics that need to be addressed in the press, but when it comes directly to the work of the opposition, when it comes to revealing its work in a negative sense, this practice has already begun to spread to the district government. In addition, these materials contain a variety of materials that are available in translation into the Ukrainian language. Thus, two hundred and forty grammatical errors have been made in one of the materials that suggest placing the area in the newspapers. I'm paying attention if this is the practice of district administrations, what further work can we talk about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u5	Shershun. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u6	Mikola Shershun, 157 constituency. May I have a word with you for speaking to the Deputy Kalinchuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u7	I don't know who to say the word to.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u8	Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u9	Please turn on Kalinczuk's microphone. Please, Vasil Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! The 2002 State Budget provides 52 million dollars for the planned anti-epizootic measures. Since the beginning of the year, 21 million dollars have actually been received, which is only 41 percent of the annual planned annual animal health research. 700-800 million preventive pain vaccines like 130 infectious diseases, including animal and human. The same has been true for many years in Ukraine of sustained epizootic well - being regarding acute animal diseases. For more than 10 years, a country free of lizards, brucellosis, has been eliminated in prewar years. and so on. At the same time, according to official reports of the International Epizootic Bureau, there has been a worsening of the epidemiological situation in many parts of the world. Since the beginning of this year, there has also been a complication of the epizootic situation regarding acute infectious diseases of animals, especially the 1.10.2002 plague, with 774 incapacitated areas where 890 animals have been killed and killed. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health last year, 5 people died of leprosy, and this year 1 person. Health care in healthy farms and areas related to chronic, infectious animal diseases such as tuberculosis, leukosis is delayed. To a large extent, this situation is explained by inadequate financing of antiepizootic measures. Today, for the immunobiological products that have been received and used, the Debt Order has increased to 10 million dollars. Moreover, the maintenance of the museum has not been financed at all since the beginning of the year. microorganisms that have more than 1,100 units, which is the national acquisition of our nation. Further delaying antiepizootic funding, the State Veterinary Service will have to stop planned diagnostic tests and vaccination prevention. Despite the price situation in the animal production market, state support for the sector remains scarce. The State program of animal and poultry selection at the 2002 agribusiness complex, out of the estimated 58 million bracelets, was funded by only 18 percent on October 15. State support for animal and plant production is underfunded. Therefore, we believe that this application is accepted as an official parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! You talk very loudly to each other in the hall. Quiet, please. Humor yourselves! The word is given to Belarus by Oleg Grigorovich. The next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u12	It's a Belarus. Please give the floor to the national MP, Mr. Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, a criminal case against a citizen of Kuchma Leonid Danilovich was brought before the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Kuchma Leonid Danilovich is charged with 12 articles of the Criminal Code, such as involvement in murder, corruption, theft on a particularly large scale, abuse of office, and so forth. In addition, a citizen of Kuchma Leonid Danilovich received a ruling from the judge regarding the immediate signing of the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the law on the commission of inquiry. At the same time, yesterday mass media were followed by false comments by representatives of the President’s Administration, executive and other supporters of Mr. Kuchma, who spoke of the misconduct of the judge. I have the authority to state that Ukrainian legislation does not limit the discovery of criminal cases against both the President and the People's Deputies. Every investigator, every prosecutor, every judge has not only a right but a duty to open a criminal case when he sees the signs of a crime. The other question is attracting a person to the office of president or national deputy to criminal responsibility. This really requires the approval of the Supreme Council, but all of this is ahead. In addition, my fellow officials, I would like to draw your attention to the gross violation of the executive responsibility of Mr. Glass, the head of the City Court of Appeal. Regardless of the fact that the national deputies who signed the application for the opening of criminal cases made these applications personally to each of the judges of the Criminal College of the Court of Appeal. Mr. Gloss, abusing his official status, hid these appeals from the judges and sent them to the President’s Administration to reconcile their position. So we had to appeal to the judges again in order to fulfill their responsibility, as Judge Vasilenko did, and to open criminal cases. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I am calling on the Attorney General's Office not to delay the task of tasking the faction of the Yulia Block, but to immediately initiate a judicial investigation into criminal cases against the citizens of Kuchma Leonid Danilovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u15	Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich, next to Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u16	Thank you. Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! I want to talk today about how much Ukraine is a wrong state. Now, instead of giving us legislative projects, we're being handed out messages to the people's deputies about the capture of the President's administration by the people's deputies. I want to say that this is a gross forgery because I gave the Attorney General the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and he didn't read it. And when the Deputy Attorney General came to us to file a criminal case, I thought he was going to violate a criminal case against a security guard that with automatic rifles delayed the legal transfer of members of the People's Department of the President. And here, you see, the other way around! For whom are these laws written? Well, since we have a way out of this: since a criminal case was committed by the Deputy Attorney General, we are confident that the Attorney-General, we hope that he is a lawyer, that he will correct the situation and violate the criminal case against protection by implementing the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. That's one side. On the other hand, I already said yesterday that all the rallying, the assembly within the action "Rise, Ukraine!" They were legal. At times, however, criminal cases are said to be illegal, and they are again committed. You see, they're twisting again, they're twisting legislation. And I'd like to turn yours. Well, it's everywhere! Here we were when we were talking about the consortium, give us a second deal signed by Ukrnaftogas. Karmazin read, even referred to an article in the Criminal Code, which does not provide material to the national deputies, is a violation of the law. So far, neither the committee nor the national deputies have been handed over this treaty, but there are conditions for treason, to betray national interests. Who, rather than the national deputies, should consider these questions? Well, third. I really liked the logic of President Vasilyev Sergiya's head of information. That's his logic, iron as they say. He says there are no censors in Ukraine, so there is no censorship. So what I want to remind you is that censorship is a system of information activity in power when it's given to the general public only the information that governs the government. And in order to do that, you don't need a cheap censor, there's a high-paying administration at all levels, an administration, an administrative resource, one word that solves all problems instead of a censor, and it's very effective. And methods do. So, by the way, I even wrote an article that included five rules of fascism and Stalinism in the textbook of modern social philosophy. And then looked at the example of the action "Rise, Ukraine!"that all this ideology works for today in Ukraine. So we have to really fight for democracy so that Fascism doesn't go through in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u17	The word has the national deputy of Samofal, followed by the national deputy of Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u18	Please give the floor to the representative of Isaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u19	Please, Deputy Isaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u20	We are at the threshold when the door to our very main issue is open -- to the budget, there is no more important question for the deputies. The budget, of course, needs to be written with a capital letter, and from here I can't help but share with you the latest impressions I've made at the voter meeting this Monday. 53 people were at the reception, and some analysis of our meeting. Of course, the main question is material assistance, it's not resolved in this room, I'm not talking about it, but the atmosphere and the behavior, and the will of the voters can't be ignored here, in this room. Of course, they were very concerned about the preparations for the winter, and these questions were therefore discussed, and they were confident that they would find discussion here in committee discussions. On the adoption of the budget, I am convinced that all of us, as deputies, will be drawing the fattened ones that need to be dealt with directly on the budget. It is very important for me to build a metropolis in the city of Harkov, for someone else, but I repeat, we cannot have a more important budget. What else concerns the MPs? They don't just worry, they don't understand the discipline in our sessional room. They are outraged by empty places, outraged by all the meetings that are held at the rostrum and taken from the speaker’s microphone. I would like to address the Chairman of our Committee on Rules and Ethics: Valentin Grigoryevich, you will somehow protect us and you will find it possible to look at the ethical issues of ours too. Save us from mistakes, because if you're in a business, you'll look at the code: the enterprise is governed by rules of conduct, and we're free of responsibility for behavior and discipline for all the rules that the document targets us to do? I am convinced that there is a need to reconsider our attitude here. Draw us to talk about how we should behave. And I am convinced that this will help us to cope better with the budget and to give everyone involved a decent job for the coming year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u21	People's MP Chelnokov, Communist faction. Get ready for Swanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u22	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u23	Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u24	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, I received an answer from the Attorney General’s Office to my questions about the physical assault on the Ukrainian national deputy, his assistant, and the police’s obstruction of the freedom of movement of the Ukrainian national deputy to the House of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Attorney General's Office responds by saying that the police, who are familiar with the photos that I sent to the Attorney General's Office, are unequivocally denying in their explanations that they carried out such an attack. But at the same time, in my question, I gave a photo of the police, of the other force structures that filmed this episode with the cameras over a period of time from 4 minutes to 4 hours 15 minutes. And can't we find these workers, and can't we watch these photos and videos? Sure. Therefore, it seems that the Attorney General’s Office has faithfully determined that the prosecutor’s office in Kiev, who dealt with this issue, has misinterpreted that it is impossible to locate these perpetrators and has given further instructions to carry out further investigations. The second question concerns the movement of the Ukrainian national deputy, i.e. I have to go to the Bank's house, 6/8. Dozens of television cameras have shown how the Ukrainian national deputy comes out through the glass, and this is what the whole world has seen. The Public Prosecutor’s Office answers that this fact was not found objectively, and on October 8, 2002, the criminal case was dismissed. Next question, third question. My assistant Victor Belovtsov was detained. The workers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev were brutally denied a report by a national MP and a family detained on the very fact of detention. But the Attorney General appeared as if nothing had happened and there had been no violation of the law. And the last. His personal belongings disappeared in the tent mentioned by Belyovtsa Victor. At the time of his capture, his weeds were torn apart, his shoes lost, and a total of about a thousand bracelets. Who is to compensate for his loss? Similarly, the Office of the Attorney General did not respond. That is why I appeal to you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to consider this statement to be a question of parliament. Print the transcript and send it to the Attorney General's Office for proper, more responsible consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u25	The People's Deputy of Lebedivsky, the faction of Our Ukraine, to prepare Melnichuku, the faction of the Socialist Party, Mikhailo Melnichuku, the faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u26	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to give the floor to the national deputy Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u27	Please, Jaroslav Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u28	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies. The situation that has arisen both in our country of Ukraine and in the regions, particularly in the Lviv region, where a unique clan of increasing the political structure of the SDPU(o) and the district tax administration is created cannot help but bother the public in our area and the MPs at all levels. In connection with that, on October 6th of this year, there were meetings of deputies of all levels of the "Our Ukraine" bloc of our Lviv region and the issue of the political situation in Ukraine and in our region. The resolution that was adopted says. The insolent election to parliament, the usurpation of power by the political forces, which voted for only 18 percent of the population, the anti-constitutional intervention in Parliament, the President's Administration, and the attempt to ensnare all branches of power in the State of SDPU(o), which is supported by only 1 out of every 16 Ukrainians puts the state on the brink of political and economic catastrophe. Especially dangerous is the appointment of President Viktor Medvedchuk's CEO, who began harassing and intimidated all non-conformal, violent censorship in the press, night interrogations by activists of legally active parties, and the conveering discovery of criminal cases against national MPs of parliamentary factions and deputies from Our Ukraine's district and district levels. Our nation is on the verge of totalitarianism and repression. Full disregard for the will of voters is seen in the Lviv region, where 64 percent of the population voted for our Ukraine and 18 percent voted for the Timoshenko Yulia Block. The executive power at all levels in the area belongs to the JEDU and the SDPU, the political forces that together have managed to gain sympathy from only 5 percent of the voters. A particular concern is the fact that the tax administration, led by Victor Medvedchuk's brother Sergey Medvedchuk in the Lviv region, is a tool for taking power, which undermines the business that sympathizes with the national democratic forces and puts pressure on the deputies of all levels with the aim of creating obedient factions in the councils. We note that the full responsibility for the state of affairs in Ukraine and the complete withdrawal of power from the people is borne by the President of Ukraine Kuchma, whose activities are related to international scandals, the most powerful of which is the killing of Gongadze and the attempt to sell arms to Iraq. In short, the resolution requires that all levels be appointed. First. Kuchma's resignations and early presidential elections. The immediate release of Medvedchuk Victor. Subordinate the tax administration of the Cabinet of Ministers. Discharge from the post of head of the DPA in the Lviv region of Sergio Medvedchuk To put an end to the pressures and provocations of the opposition against them. I'm done. Creating a majority in Parliament and a coalition government, taking into account the results of the last parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u29	National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u30	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Valentina Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u32	Valentina Seminouk, Socialist Party of Ukraine Although our President failed to create a bicameral parliament, the guarantor is welcome from the creation of a bicameral government. The Supreme Chamber is the President's Administration, the Lower Chamber, in the sense that it is subordinated to the Supreme Chamber or, as defined in the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. You see, fellow dignitaries, how much money is planned in the 2003 budget for the Cabinet of Ministers -- 92 million dollars. How much for the President's Office? True, in order to be less critical of the upper chamber, the President’s Administration is more loyal. The House of Government has been deprived. In order not to be criticized, and with the use of budget funds, the President created what is called the DUSU, in the people, they call the State Administration of the affairs for which 298.7 million dollars is planned. By the way, why the President's decree of 23 February 2000 on the establishment of State administration issues is issued by a secret "Publication is not subject to publication." What secret does it contain? Maybe it's because government is being created to kind of reduce budget spending, and it turns out that in 2003, 200 million more is planned than in 2000. In addition, the Office of the Ministers of Administration, known as the DUSI, provides government property: the Žitomir liquor plant, the Chugutniv liquor plant, the Lviv Railway Recreation Base, restaurants, docks of the 4th Kiev River Port. I'm not going to call because I have too many. It is now understandable why the President recently stated that the State Property Fund is not coping with the function of government property management. Obviously soon all the attractive -- I repeat, attractive -- will be managed by the President's Administration in Ukraine, because in accordance with article 105 of the law. The Constitution of Ukraine, the question of governance, this refers directly to the Cabinet of Ministers. As a result, I want to go to the Budget Committee. First. To conduct a separate retention line, not for the President's Administration, but for the job of the President. I would like to pay particular attention to the inadmissibility of spending large amounts abroad. Considering that our President is not present, of the 30 scheduled visits in the 1st half of 2002, only 13 were made in nine countries worldwide. However, officials of the Office of the President, including the so - called DUSU, made 64 trips and spent 1.1 million dollars. In addition, I would like to address you personally, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to direct the House of Auditors to verify the use of budgetary resources by the State Administration since its creation, and we will see where the funds go and how state property is being used. I think Saturday, September 18th, the opposition at their rally will make all this public accordingly. And the last. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to make a request today to the Committee of the Supreme Council for Education. At the Conciliation Council, we talked about parliamentary hearings for general and secondary education, which will be held at 15 hours. Ukrainian television and radio, and we hope that it will broadcast, and people will hear how worried the budget is about Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u33	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u34	And I'm going to ask that the committee work somehow be limited so that our deputies can meet up with the education staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u36	As for the assignment, please consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u37	Okay, okay. I ask the head of the committee of Tomenko Mikola to deal with the proposal that parliamentary hearings on education issues be broadcast today. Please do this along with Hennady Andrievich. Please, National Deputy Kostinuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. Kirilchuk will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Yukhnov on to Igor Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u39	Igor Raphailovich, please. And I'm looking, our time is up, so one Igor Raphaelovich will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! "Our Ukraine" to the 60s. In the past, I was a soldier of the Soviet army, taking part in battles on the fronts of the war in the First Ukrainian Front. Under Zoločov, I was, more specifically, with a tank of T34, in direct combat with German soldiers who broke out of a "brodov boiler." Among the Germans, it turns out, were Ukrainians from the SS division Galicina. The brother fought against his brother. The Polish occupation of Volina was difficult. Unimaginable were the arrests and tortures of the NCCD in 1940. The Gestapo's actions in 1941-44 were terrifying. There was a weapon lying around, left by the Poles in 1939 and by the Soviet army in 1941. The situation of total inadmissibility of the occupation of both the former Polish and the harsh short - term Soviet and, finally, the entirely foreign German has grown to maturity. The people are weary, but the people are not disgraced. A material demonstration of this was the organization of UPA military forces in 41st year in Volin under the command of Borovec, Bulby, officially announced October 14th on the 42nd. By the summer of the 43rd, the UPA army had liberated almost the entire territory of Volina from the Germans. And organized, united later in UN-OPA, was a military force whose ideal was an independent Ukraine. After 44 years of brutal steel repression policies have turned the entire territory of Western Ukraine into the arena of civil war, a brother killing his brother. It's been 60 years. Ukraine lives an independent state, it's time to think, it's time for justice, it's time to honor those who won the fascists in their logo, and it's organized itself and it's created an UPA army that protected the population, its families, both from the fascists and the bloody operations of the Polish army, who didn't break down in an unevenly hopeless struggle of civil war in the '40s and '50s. But the time has come for all to ask for forgiveness from former opposers and for forgiveness from former opposers. And as head of the All - Ukrainian Veterans Union, which unites all participants in World War II, I am being carried out in the face of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council is tilting its heads against the courage of the UPA on the 60th anniversary of the day of the establishment of the UPA. "Our Ukraine" urges the Ukrainian people to consolidate it, and its older generation to national reconciliation, because there is no other. The Supreme Council has a wonderful explanatory note by Leuka Lukyanka on the government bill regarding the recognition of UN-UPA soldiers as participants in hostilities. "Our Ukraine" is fully attached to its contents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the time allocated for statements, reports, queries, is exhausted. Those suggestions that have been made in the presentations will be printed and related assignments will be sent to the ministries and departments and institutions of the state institutions of Ukraine to respond accordingly. Dear colleagues, the meeting schedule for today is given to you. We have two main questions: the draft law on the 2003 State Budget of Ukraine, as well as parliamentary hearings on education. From the procedure? Please, National Deputy Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u42	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, so it happened that under some technical, temporary circumstances, a comparative table to the 2003 draft budget was printed in just 300 copies, as reported to me at the registration desks. Therefore, one third of the deputies do not have this document on their hands and therefore do not have the ability to work properly, productively. I'd like to ask you in some way to settle this matter quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I should have informed you, I was going to do it, that there was a tremendous amount of material, they were received late. And now there's a process of printing them, of reproduction. And they're going to deliver quickly and they're going to hand over to MPs who haven't been able to get it. I think as long as the report goes out and there's questions to the reporter, we'll be able to distribute these 150 copies. Please, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u44	Vladimir Mikhailovich, unfortunately you weren't in the hall when I made my announcement. According to article 4.2.2 of the Rules, you are obliged as Head of the Supreme Council to announce the dissolution of the "For Ukraine" faction. A request to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I take the view of the People's Deputy Sobolev. I think it's just a fact that happened, so I'm announcing the dissolution of the faction of Ukraine. Instead, I would like to point out that these factions. [[Applause]] Dear National MPs, those factions and groups that were part of the "One Ukraine" faction formed the "One Ukraine" bloc. Yes, dear fellows, let's move on. National MP Nikolaynko, did you have anything? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u46	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we were at the Conciliation Council making an announcement, in principle, I so understood, agreed that from 15 to 18 hours today, parliamentary hearings. Some 340 visitors from the districts arrived. Here I see Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko waving his hands. Stanisław Ivanovich, you have appointed a meeting, conduct it. But I invite the national deputies of Ukraine, who are free, and the heads of the committees who can move committee meetings, to communicate with the academics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have agreed on the Conciliation Council, and this is a fact that it is obvious that we are holding parliamentary hearings at 15 hours. I'm asking you very much to have everyone in the session room, because we're all reporting on how urgent and urgent the problem of improving the situation in the education environment is. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2003. The committee proposes this regulation, I ask you to listen carefully to this question: report to the committee head - 30 minutes, answers to questions - 15 minutes, statement by the head of the House - 10 minutes, statements from the factions - 45 minutes, statements from the committees - to 3 minutes, discussions - to 3 minutes. 30 minutes, a statement from the Cabinet of Ministers to 10 minutes, a closing statement from the Cabinet of Ministers to 5 minutes. A simple arithmetic estimate shows that it takes more than four hours. We have a clean working time of 2.40 minutes to 14 hours. We either have to agree that at 12 o'clock we're not taking a break -- that's the first one. The second is that we're going to shorten the time for the briefings and the presentation by the committees so that we can invest up to 14 hours. So we actually have 3 hours on. That's right, fellow officers, 24 of us have committees. We're multiplying by 3 minutes, and we're getting a search result. I'd like to cut back so we can work quickly. Is there no objection? What's the offer? Please, the national MP of Baranowski. Let's get to work, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u48	Thank you. National Deputy of Baranovsky Alexander Petrovich, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. After all, today we're going to be looking at a budget that will take a year to live in the country. And, you know, if something happens quickly, then it doesn't work out as well. So there's a suggestion that in this case let's not save, but let's see what the Rules provide. And a second observation. An important question is being considered. I don't know why there isn't a Prime Minister of Kinach, but there aren't even vice-premiers and not all ministers are present! Are they not interested in the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u49	Honorable National MPs. As for the first offer. I suggest at 12 o'clock we don't take a break, work, maybe by 2:30, so that we can, really, thoroughly, take a full look at this document. It's the law of the country. Second, about the absence of managers. All government leaders were invited. The Prime Minister is now with a delegation in the Republic of Iran. As for the missing vice-premiers, I'm going to ask them to find out right now why they're not in the session room. Is there no objection? Let's move on to the question. The report invites the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Prashenko, Petr Aleksiowiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. According to the provisions of the Budget Code, you are presented with the conclusions and proposals of the Committee of the Supreme Council on the budget for the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003. Since the presentation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on 24 September, the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been reviewed and worked on by the Budget Committee on its compliance with the requirements of the Constitution, the main directions of budgetary policy for 2003, which was voted in the Hall, the Regulations and Rules of the Budget Code, the current legislation of Ukraine. A total of 2,059 proposals by national deputies, committees, were received and analysed. factions, entities of the legislative initiative. Each of them was carefully considered by the committee on each of the adopted decisions of the committee on its support or rejection. This, honourable deputies, does not apply to proposals for the distribution of stupors. The committee has proposed a mechanism that we can take into account when preparing the draft budget for adoption in the second reading. The suggestions are summarized in the comparative tables that you are offered today for consideration. I want to confirm and apologize because, in fact, the committee finally approved and submitted a proposal to the printing press just yesterday at dinner, and the technical capabilities of the Supreme Council's apparatus were not fully secured by the National Deputies. I'm sure now you'll get these tables. Work on the bill was done with the participation of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the State Tax Administration, the National Bank, local government administrations and other authorities. I would like to say a few words about the principles that we immediately formed for ourselves and that we used in preparing the budget for our first reading. First. It's basically a professional approach to bringing out any political aspect beyond consideration. It's different. No double standards. Third. The principle of non-deployment of budgetary resources. And finally, the strictest balance between income and expenditure. According to our estimates, the government's proposed project contained significant shortcomings: macro-indicators errors, contradictions in current legislation, weakened social policies, lack of development budget, deterioration of the real state of the local budgets, lack of innovative approaches. These and other shortcomings have been corrected and the efforts of the budget committee have been directed. So, what are the most important changes the committee is proposing to your consideration of the government project? First. I'd like to analyze the yield. The Budget Committee considers it possible to increase the income of the State budget for 2003 by 8 billion 37 million dollars, i.e. the income of the State budget is increasing from 47 billion 127 million to 55 billion 165 million; the revenue of the budget is also increasing in the corresponding proportions. We believe that the sources we offer to increase revenue are quite real. The main sources of increasing income are corporate income tax, value added tax for changes in legislation and improvements in the tax administration system, excise collection of goods produced in Ukraine, income from the application of the lower rate of depreciation or other mechanism for the elimination of monopolistically high incomes of state-owned monopolists, as an example of the introduction of property tax, which we have been talking about for many years, of the need to adopt the Tax Code. There's also a resource. the fees for services provided by the budgetary institutions. I want to draw your attention to the fact that we have a serious potential to further increase revenue to the State budget. The Committee on Budget Issues held a joint meeting with the Committee on Finance and Banking, which produced an agreed view of these problems, approached the adoption of the bills that I have just announced, which will lead to a substantial replenishment of the income part of the budget by the Supreme Council. On behalf of the two committees of the Supreme Council, I would like to address you, my fellow Members, asking for the support of the following bills: "On amendments and additions to the Law of Ukraine on the Income Tax of Citizens", whose expected effect on adoption is, as a minimum, 625 million dollars for local budgets, though in part, you know that there are certain disputes, but at least in the part concerning the removal of the benefits at the professional level that have been proposed by the Government; changes to legislation relating to the taxation of raw materials and complex economic operators in free economic zones, which must be regulated either by legislation or by the approval of individual committees, can be regulated by a government decision. This will also significantly increase the income portion of the budget; changes and additions to Ukraine's Business Income Tax Act; laws amending the Act on the Excise Congregation for the Administration of the Congregation System. This congregation. I would like to point out that the timing of the budget process is the most real for the adoption of bills that fill the income part of the budget, because at this time every national MP feels more strongly able to channel additional funds to address specific important socio-economic problems of the state than ever before. You know how acute the problem of tax evasion is today before the country. In this section, the government is tasked with developing a tax debt collection programme in 2003 and preparing it for consideration in the Supreme Council. I would like to put a stop to the advent of privatization. We're predicting 4 billion 376 million dollars coming in, which we think should be included in the state budget general fund. This sum is divided by 2 parts. The first part that was proposed by the government -- 2 billion 101 million -- is what's called the government's perception of the reliability of these revenues. But 2 billion 275 million -- so-called risky revenue -- is not sure they'll come in 2003. We're going to propose all of these revenues to be included in the revenue portion of the general government budget fund. At the same time, more than 3 billion set up a general budget surplus to ensure that in the event of a lack of funding, the budget is not damaged. According to the government's proposals, the first part of the budget, we're sure it's real, even though it's tense and it should be part of it, it should also be included in the general fund. It's about a special fund. The position of the budget committee is that the amount of the special fund compared to the general fund should be continuously reduced, because the special fund has those serious planning problems and the abuses that we have seen with you in the 2001 budget discussion and the current year. However, since this position has not been fully supported in the session room, we have identified it as a strategic orientation, a direction in which we need to move. And with regard to the 2003 project, it was a priority for us to determine the actual extent of the special fund, which we believe is essentially understated by the government. To determine the actual size of the special funds, we have served as a principle of what has been achieved and have carefully calculated and tracked the implementation of the special fund in the current year. So in the proposals for the first reading, the lion's share of the increase in income came to the general fund -- 6 billion 972 million compared to the special fund, which increased by only 1 billion 64 million. Within the scope of the expenditure, we have tried to correct the Government's proposed focus on increased funding for government administrations and power structures, moving the funds to social articles and development. I'm going to say that we're better off with a social component than with a development budget, which may not be strategically correct, but we're already facing the issue of social protection of our citizens. In particular, more than 300 million dollars have been added to the social protection line, from the 500 million proposed by the government to return citizens’ savings, to the 100 million and to the 600 million dollars budget committee. Not for the first time in the existence of an independent Ukraine has the culture - the Ministry of Culture added 56 million bracelets. A total of 42 million were added to the State Committee on Family Affairs and Youth. We're tasking the government to develop a mechanism for the involvement of non-profit funds -- commercial, private, construction and housing for military personnel or members of their families, youth-building, rural construction -- that will extend to people who will have access to this resource. With regard to the development budget. We're proposing that 800 million dollars be invested as opposed to a government project that has not foreseen anything at all for this purpose, planning to channel funds here just in the event of overcoming the privatisation plans, which, as we see from previous years' experience, has never happened. Not for the first time in Ukraine's new history is finally in full compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Road Farming Act, I apologize. As a result of their development, the road economy will receive a corresponding 1 billion 600 million, which will lead to an increase in production in adjacent industries, which will also contribute to the development of the domestic economy. We have an increase in the amount of funding for coal-based scientific development, this is a mine demethane program, and the allocation of 23 million 700 000 to ensure that our Air Force pilots have a minimum required flight time in the air. We also realize that this is the ultimate goal of the necessary funds, but as the experts have assured us, these funds will allow us to teach and release at least those students who are now trained on military pilots. On the other hand, the UPU’s leadership sees no alternative to retraining them into other military specialties. One thing I would like to do is to stop, dear colleagues, from financing the coal sector. In our proposals, we have also anticipated an increase in funding compared to government proposals of 367 million to a total of 2 billion 603 million dollars. It's more than the coal sector had in any of the previous years, but at the same time, of course, it's much less than miners need. But look at how these funds are used. It's not a secret, and we can hear it from the report, I hope, the heads of the House of Auditors, that often-hundredly the costs of a particular person's work do not come and sit in the pockets of coal generals and commercial structures of intermediaries that feed the coal industry. The increase in the financing of the coal sector in such a situation would, in our opinion, be like an anecdote of a longnose, which has been kept increasing the area of planted beets in the hope that the cursed longnose will finally choke. If we are not joking, we believe that a similar approach should be developed, a clear mechanism that would generate funds for each particular miner. On the other hand, taking away from the budget and then redistributing later and later with blood the social funds that are so badly needed by pensioners, persons with disabilities, persons with disabilities, other categories of citizens, today, are considered unrealistic. We used the following approach to finance the functions of other government authorities, respected colleagues. We didn't give money to anyone, not even the Supreme Council. There has been virtually no increase in funding, except for funding for public representatives and completion of construction in Sadowy, 3. The need for this house is simply evocative. The funding of other government agencies was provided at exactly the same level as that at which such functions were performed and financed for the Supreme Council. In particular, at 22 million. 800,000. The fine has been reduced in the financing of the Government’s administration of affairs, along with the removal of its own functions. We're proposing, for example, a medical health department that now has the status of State Administration, to transfer it to the Ministry of Health. The same approach is also suggested for other health - care facilities, which are transferred to the Ministry of Health, along with the cost of maintaining them. This question was also revealed in the hearing of the State Administration. If you ask me that question, I'll give you the position of the Budget Committee on this matter. We've also limited the funding of the central apparatus, the esteemed colleagues, some central social funds -- pension, social insurance -- to direct these funds directly to the implementation of these funds' programs. So we've limited some of the funds that can be used to finance the central apparatus of the funds. As for the local budgets, my dear colleagues, I hope you have a table on the local budgets where you can see that for two thirds of the local budgets, the local self-government authorities. level of funding increased. More than you've been asked by local government officials. In the Cabinet of Ministers bills on the State Budget for the Relationship between State and Local Budgets are based on the following principles. First, this is an increase in the amount of removal from local budgets due to an increase in projected income, secondly, a delegation to local budgets of authority to perform additional functions without properly providing them with financial resources. In contrast to the government’s proposed approaches, the Committee on Budget Affairs has found an opportunity to significantly improve the situation of local budgets by providing them with an additional amount of $1 billion,800 million. Of these, 300 million are government investments that will make local budgets. In addition, 1 billion 385 million dollars will be allocated to local social budgets, including 1 billion 53 million dollars to raise wages for education, culture, health and social security workers, 140 million dollars additionally for the purchase of medicines, which we know today is an extremely acute problem on the ground, 187 million dollars to overcome the so-called imbalance in the network, mainly in the area of cultural institutions, when the level of maintenance of budget workers differs significantly from that of the region as a result of the uneven distribution of budget institutions. In addition, 100 million are available to cover the debt of local budget institutions for communications services, since there are numerous cases of telephone disconnections in schools today. They were removed from the local budgets, not their own, but the government's proposed function: to maintain a municipal militia of 214 million, transferring them to funding from the State Budget. Some very important initiatives of the Committee on Budget Affairs have been formulated as government assignments. We believe that an immediate solution requires the issue of the cancellation of the land-paying benefits provided by normative acts, especially for viable enterprises. According to our estimates, from the annual amount of such benefits to $1 billion,100 million, local budgets have granted only 200 million. The remaining 900 million have been provided either by the laws of Ukraine, which we have adopted without adequate compensation for local budgets, or by the regulations of the government. We think that the government should stop pretending that it doesn't know about the problem of lending local budgets to 1.2 billion dollars. This debt must be accurately calculated, inventoryd, recognized and offered clear mechanisms for its disposal. Of course, a positive effect on the filling of local budgets would be the introduction of a mechanism by which branches of enterprises would pay taxes, not on a consolidated basis in the center, but on the site of the registration of the branch itself. It is shameful when local budgets to cover a cash gap are forced to borrow interest in commercial banks. We feel it is necessary to oblige the Treasury to lend short - term loans to local budgets when such cash breaks arise from the central budget. The government should develop a mechanism to stimulate local income-generating budgets, which was raised by representatives of most regions, which is particularly relevant for regions that are donors of the state budget. There is also a need to include in the draft budget a text article on the settlement of inter-budget relations at village, village, district and district levels, including on the basis of an analysis of the issues raised in 2002. Dear colleagues in relation to government debt, the Budget Committee agreed with the government's proposals on the impossibility of increasing the national debt thresholds and establishing a national internal debt threshold of 11 billion 788 million 497 thousand 200 dollars and $1 billion 317 million 121 thousand United States dollars, and a national external debt threshold of 8 billion equivalent to 112 million 41,000 United States dollars. The budget committee made proposals to the government regarding the implementation of government debt policy. In particular, we note the need for increased control, especially parliamentary control over the maintenance and use of foreign loans. We propose that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine develop a mechanism to regulate the long-term indebtedness of businesses, legal persons, lenders to the State for loans entered under State guarantees. We think that the current situation in financial markets is helping to make changes in the structure of government debt, increase the amount of alcohol, domestic borrowing. At the same time, such changes should be in advance in line with the government’s position with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it is absolutely necessary in our view to increase the role of the Supreme Council in defined sovereign debt policies. Since government programs used to be used for past borrowings, the Supreme Council of Ukraine viewed government only as known. The government’s acceptance and implementation of these proposals is of fundamental importance given that 2003 will be peaked at the amount of money needed to service government debt. Dear National Deputies, the Committee's conclusions on budget issues certainly make the draft budget somewhat less comfortable for the government, but much more acceptable to the vast majority of our citizens. The proposed budgetary conclusions take into account the proposals made by legal entities in line with Article 40, paragraph 2, of the Code of Budget. On a number of proposals, it is proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers be given a mandate to take them into account when preparing the draft Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2003 for second reading. We ask the Supreme Council to endorse the conclusions and proposals of the Budget Committee on the draft State Budget Act 2003 as the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight a few words about procedure. In addressing most committees and national deputies, it is said that they are proposing to reject the government project and not vote for it tomorrow. I wish we had a clear understanding. It's not a government project that's voting tomorrow. According to the Budget Code tomorrow, the conclusions and proposals of the budgetary committee that were adopted at the meeting of the budgetary committee, you know that there are all factions represented there today, it is the most numerous in the Supreme Council, these conclusions were adopted by consensus, i.e. unanimously. And so we don't get mixed up in the fact that there's going to be some kind of government vote on the budget. Once again, I stress that the vote is based on the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budgets. I thank you for your attention to those who have listened attentively and ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u51	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. I would like to inform you that there are representatives of scientific institutions in the area before the Supreme Council of Ukraine who are asking to include a broadcast of this issue into the area. Is there no objection? Okay. I ask the secretariat to carry out this assignment. The other one. I have the first question for you from the National Academy of Sciences. They wrote a letter and asked. First. Support the proposals of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine for the draft budget. That's the first one. The other one. To conduct the necessary negotiations, meetings, consultations between representatives of the scientific community and the committee's management. Peter Alexiyovich, this is the second I would like to do, and now I would like to inform you how you feel, how the committee feels about the proposal made by the Committee on Science and Education. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u52	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, during the discussion of the draft budget, the budget committee demonstrated its openness and we will be pleased to meet representatives of the science and education profession. As for the Scientific Committee's proposals, I've informed you of the substantial increase that has been made. an additional resource, which has been directed by the committee to raise the wages of the education community. As far as scientists are concerned, there are numerous proposals to cut spending on programs. And with regard to the chief budget manager of the National Academy of Sciences and the other budget committee, he did not follow this principle and commissioned the government to develop a mechanism to make more efficient use of the budget that would be linked to specific scientific results. We are ready to meet with the committee, with the representatives of the trade union, to take their proposals into account in the development of this mechanism. If the Supreme Council identifies and adopts changes to certain tax laws that result in an increase in resources, there is no doubt that increasing funding for scientific activities is one of the priorities of the budgetary committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u53	National Deputy Dashutin, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u54	Dear Peter Alexiovich! I am very grateful that we worked together in committee meetings and that work was really stressful and you worked night and day, at large. I'd like to ask one of these questions about education. Why? Because this year we have raised the average wage of the minimum of 160 dollars and today there is a situation where in education today wages are very low and they're almost at the bottom of the minimum wage today. With regard to education, how much will the salary be raised, and with regard to the 57th article that we all know about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. Thank you for the positive assessment of the committee’s activities. The position of the Committee on Budgets is as follows. Maximum number of resources. So you've heard 1 billion 53 million of us have been directed to local budgets to raise wages. First of all, it's about education. This is a position, this is a principle that applies to the budget committee without jeopardizing the reality of the budget and its balance, because further accumulation of funding will lead to a situation that occurred in the current year, when the budget, with a huge deficit, actually went to manual management and today many articles are underfunded. The Council's objectivity has to be said about the financing of wages, it's not relevant, but in any case, we insist that the Supreme Council should determine those priorities of funding, that is our constitutional duty, and that the decisions of the Supreme Council should be taken in full. Once again, if science and education are the priorities of the Committee of Budgets and in the case of additional resources, we are ready to channel additional resources to the financing of science and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u56	National Deputy Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction, Hersonian. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, with the arguments of the Committee on Budgets, I think it's hard not to agree on the proposed draft budget, but I'm concerned about this. Indeed, we really have to give money to the executive authorities and to the authorities as a whole. But still, as a local self-governance member, I'm concerned about how the next year will guarantee self-governance at the basic level? Because everything that's happened to so-called reforms and so on and so forth and the social sphere, and everything else is on the shoulders of the country heads and deputies, our colleagues, our lowlands. That, as we can really help them today, we can solve those problems that are delegated by legislation that are appropriate. And the second question. Whether there is real hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u58	Rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u59	The real hope, Peter Alexiyovich, is that in the coming year, funds will be paid for the financing of capital investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u60	Thank you, Mr. Anatoly. As for the first question. After the adoption of the Code of Budgets, our logic was that we would be very shortening the time that we would spend discussing local budgets. We do not need to assume those powers that are delegated by the Constitution to local budgets. They'd better figure out what priorities there are. Our position was as follows. We have allocated 1 billion 800 million additional funds, including, in combination with the answer to your second question, 300 million additional is the financing of state capital at the local level, that is, with the prioritization of regions. We're sure that these costs are the maximum resource that is possible today. At the same time, the funding of government authorities, local self - government entities, is a position: we have allocated this resource, they must distribute it themselves. The Supreme Council, the Committee on Budget Affairs only offers priorities. The main priority is certainly to raise wages, social costs, finance for cultural workers, including funding for local governments. Thank you, Mr. Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u61	National Deputy Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u62	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, our faction has suggested that the committee should be removed, particularly from draft article 29 as one that is contrary to the requirements, little by little, and 8 by article of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 7 of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. What we're talking about, I'll remind you of our radio audiences. This article states that in 2003 the payment of annual lump sums in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantees of Their Social Protection is made in size and, in particular, the disabled of the Group I war - 150 bracelets, the disabled of the Group II war - 120 bracelets and so on. That's three times less, less than ten minimum pensions that are laid down directly by this law. So, Peter Alexiyovich, what is the motivation for your committee's decision to reject our proposal, that is, the proposals of the Communist faction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u63	Thank you, Reverend Valentin Grigorovich. Well, I really have to apologize, because as Head of the Regulatory Committee, you've given us a very large number of suggestions, including about increasing funding for the Supreme Council. We understand and support them, but unfortunately we are limited by resources. The same applies to the level of financing of all, all without exception of the benefits, namely, not the benefits, but the social guarantees established by the legislation. We're sure of that and we came out of the concept that the social security system itself needs a thorough review. Social guarantees, which are not provided by resources, are an unfair conduct of the state in relation to the citizen who is governed by this social guarantee. So we have to have a government position in the form of legislative initiatives for them to be introduced into the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council has defined those priorities that it sees as regards the distribution of available resources. We're confident that that article of the 29th you're talking about is going to be a priority. On the other hand, as a professional, I can't take another position that if we promise and don't give our citizens a level of funding for these social guarantees, it won't be professional, it won't be an honest and wrong position. That is what we came up with when we made that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u64	Nosenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u65	National MP Nosenko, Communist faction. Please give the floor to Deputy Leschchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u66	Can I have a glass, please? Please turn on the microphone to the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u67	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Peter Alexiyovich, the government has repeatedly proposed that the benefits given to veterans of war and work and other categories should be replaced by targeted aid. I also realized that yesterday, and I supported this proposal by the leaders of our trade unions, the Federation of Trades. But the veterans themselves speak very differently: they are against it. Did I correctly understand that this proposal by the government did not find support on the budget committee and the benefits would be saved in 2003?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u68	First of all, thank you for your questions, Mr. Volodymyr. Secondly, the Committee on Budgets had a rather lengthy discussion on this issue. Let me give you one example very briefly: we have a free pass benefit for citizens. So let's say in the city of X with this benefit, it's entitled to 2,000 citizens. But according to the expert analysts who conducted the budget committee, in a particular city, 8,000 citizens use these benefits under false and forged documents, i.e. 4 times more than those to which the benefit is paid. Because as a strategic goal, we certainly see, and this is the approach of the budget committee, which should be converted into a system of benefits and social guarantees for specific targeted assistance. To the extent that this system is preserved this year, it will certainly not be implemented in full or even as a first step. We held a meeting today, not today, but during preparation for the conclusions of the Budget Committee, we met with representatives of 22 regions. The vast majority of them insist on replacing the aid with an address subsidy. So in our conclusions, this is the position of the budget committee, it's the government's proposal, it's the government's mandate to improve, it's to develop that target grant mechanism. address compensation to citizens, and only then return to the relief system. This question is extremely painful, but the implementation of it in budgetary policy is certainly not foreseen. Although I can tell you that in several areas, such as the Volin region, an experiment has been introduced to implement this direction. And according to local government leaders, it is quite effective. There is a request that we study this experience together.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u69	National MP Skomarovski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u70	Thank you. Vladimir Skomarowski, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u71	Please, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, well, first of all, thank you for the professional approach your committee and yourself personally on budget matters, quite another approach. In particular, they agreed to some of my suggestions. But that's my question. Why is the Committee on Budgets not yet ready for a thorough study of everything that goes through the funding of executive power and government in general? Why is the Committee on Budgets not yet ready to grow to 20 percent each year? That the state can't keep Dusu with her colonels? What can the state not provide the so-called colonel general, each given by the reserve? There was a frostbite. The Libyan Palace was handed over to the President’s Administration, Dusi. They gave up the Yusupov Palace, Dusi. Six liquor factories. Come on! Let's cut the budget 10 times, stop this lawlessness. And at the end of the day, I'd like that money to go to education.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u73	Unplug the microphone. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u74	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. In answer to your question, the Committee on Budgets shares your concern about the lack of actual control over the effective use of budgetary resources that are directed at government authorities. The budget committee formulates its policy as follows. We require the government, because the Budget Code provides for a software approach, we require the government to complete a full list of the programs that the government is planning to implement in 2003. Unfortunately, there are no such programs on the budget committee at all. We hope that by the time we read the second reading, we will have the opportunity to review those programs that will have an appropriate impact on the financing of public administrations. If there are any additional costs in the process of this review, we will support your proposal to direct them to those priorities that will be determined by the budgetary committee and the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u75	People's deputy Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u76	I ask you to pass the word to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u77	Rafat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, I understand how difficult it is for the budget committee to take into account all the proposals made by the national deputies. If that were possible, it would be several government budgets per year. But at the same time, according to the budget code, when developing annual budgets, we have to rely on the government's approval of the government's general Ukrainian programmes. You know, there's a program like this. It was approved this year, in April, it's a program for deportees returning to Crimea. When I considered the government’s proposals, my proposals came out of the program. And I've suggested that these costs be increased for this program, precisely based on the amounts that are approved by the program. For some reason, the Committee on Budgets rejected this. Although I'm saying, I'm at the program level. That's why I have a question. Are we going to prove the amount of expenditure that the programs are going to cost to the level that the government was planning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. The Committee on Budgets carefully considered the program. And in general, you'll be very interested to know that when we voted on the Budget Resolution to have the government add to us a list of programs that the government is going to finance, where we need to concentrate and fund in full, as well as a list of programs that aren't going to be financed at all this year. Because the current practice that we have now is simply spreading the budget. We've been handed over to the budget committee from such a thick book with a small list of all the programs without sadness and without the actual position of the government. We are confident that, and we have entrusted the government with our mandated tasks to comply with the budgetary resolution and to proceed professionally, concentrating the funds on the priorities for the State's use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u80	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Time's up. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to begin our discussion. The head of the Court of Auditors is invited to attend. I'd like to make two small messages. Sometimes I feel that I am taking advantage of a political power when it comes to asking questions. I prefer computers only, and then I have to push the buttons at the right time. And the second. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to discuss the budget with the DUS. Instead of being fragmented, we should discuss what is happening in the face of the country’s public tasks. Let us not make fun of ourselves and others. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u81	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable members of the Government! In compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the Court of Auditors Act of Ukraine carried out an examination of the Government's draft Law on the State Budget for 2003. The expert showed that Ukraine's draft State budget for 2003 focused the economy on a significant slowdown in growth, a departure from the country's selective innovation model of development, a reduction in the State's real income, an increase in tax debt, and not addressing a number of critical social issues. Aware of the country's real economic situation, the state of implementation of the current State budget, the logic of the Government's actions in drafting the budget can be understood. But you can't agree with her. You can't do that. For the third year, the country was living under economic growth and the mechanisms for addressing the most pressing problems. There is simply no steady growth rate. But most of all. Economic growth has not brought about qualitative changes in the economy. Moreover, the real income of the State is declining as a rock skin, and the losses of enterprises are increasing. In the case of annual write-offs and deferrals, tax evasion is growing as a snow coma. Tax reform and streamlining of existing tax benefits are declared year after year, and the tax burden remains the same. More importantly, it's increasing, because only the 3rd share of taxpayers pay real taxes. Regrettably, these negative trends are also laid down in the draft State budget. As a result, with the planned real growth of 4 per cent in 2003, the real income of the State budget is projected by the Cabinet of Ministers to be 3 per cent lower than the law for the current year. Isn't that the stagnation budget? And who can speak of growth after such figures? Let's talk about the income part. In our view, the income portion of the budget is at least 8.5 to 9 billion bracelets. Ironically, if the lobbying of interests used to go through the spending part of the budget and this is a common practice in all States, today the main lobbying goes through the income part. It's our purely Ukrainian know-how. You're on your own. The Government is planning to increase underperforming in almost all incomes. To date, it is worth 12 billion bracelets. The current tax benefits are fully maintained and even increased and their amounts are adequate to the income of the consolidated budget. There are only two small fragments of this, it is said, of the situation. Value added tax. The Ministry of Finance has deliberately planned to reduce the estimated tax by more than 2 billion grevens through the increase in underperforming and additional debt recovery. These actions are justified by the need for return and VAT to exporters, but logically and in a State-owned tax refund should be made on the basis of the amounts received from the insolvent fees, which on 1 September amounted to not much or less than 6 billion bracelets. The same situation with a profit tax. It is completely ignored, with almost 4 billion bracelets. What do you mean? Are we going to collect taxes or are we going to write back on a pre-approved and agreed list? 60 grand, I mean! - 60,000 taxpayers are unable to carry out the tax task? It is clear that the solution to this problem is not only in tax administration but, above all, in the absence of control over the formation, implementation of the income part of the budget. Today, there is no structure in our country that has the right to systematically verify the income portion of the budget. Oh, I'm sorry. In 176 countries around the world, the Courts of Auditors are committed to this task. We have been dealing with this issue for five years and it remains unresolved. As the classics say, it's very, very beneficial for someone. The problem of the special budget fund, its formation, targeted and effective use and control of the process cannot be addressed, as it is growing year by year. In our view, the position of the Ministry of Finance in this regard is completely unconstructive. The Special Fund was established in general, taking into account and monitoring public finances that were used outside the budget. To date, this task has been fully met. We see the volume of these resources, we know their economic nature, and it is time to pool them in the budget without dividing them into funds. This confirms the very practice of the special fund. With an overall increase, all public payments and charges transferred to the special fund have been significantly reduced. Nor has the practice of encouraging public organizations been justified by additional contributions to their content. This problem may not be solved immediately, but the first steps must be taken, and it must be addressed from the 2003 budget. Now for the spending part of the budget. The Government asserts that it has been established on the basis of a software-based planning method with the highest priority: social spending in a tough economy. In order to implement these provisions, it is proposed that a number of articles of social law should be stopped. According to the results of the survey, it was in the latter situation that the Government had achieved the most success: the cost of social benefits, which had resulted in the adoption and entry into force of legislation, had not been provided with budgetary resources in 2003 by more than 12 and a half billion bracelets. With regard to the programme and target method, it focused on spending on maintenance, return, budget allocation, rather than public procurement, public and targeted programmes. In social sectors and, above all, education, culture, health care, there is no method of determining the extent of the commission, public services that take into account the objective conditions of the transition to a market economy, the need of our society for services. Such an approach is consciously ineffective in the budgeting phase and, above all, in the General Fund. As a result, despite the stated priorities, the spending part of the draft budget is based on the principle of meeting everyone a little bit, i.e. each sister on the core. As a result, all remained insulted, virtually all the committees that operated certain industries. However, the strategic objectives are not being met. Several comments on inter-budget relations. An increase in the share of local budgets in the consolidated budget has been identified as a priority of budgetary policy for 2003. In the absolute indicators presented in the draft budget, this objective has been achieved in any way possible. But only because of the game numbers. In fact, this increase is due to the transfer of certain public functions to local authorities. Without transfers, the share of the income of the local budgets in the total does not reach 30 per cent. Think about it! Less than 30 percent. This makes one wonders about the correctness of the chosen ideologies for the formation of local budgets in the so-called formula model for inter-budget relations, which is constantly improving. As a result, local budgets from this formula have become basic dependants living on grants and subsidies from centres. The results of the region's economic activities do not affect the budget in any way. Economic motivation for industrial or economic development in a region has been lost. And the last. The findings and proposals of the Audit Chamber of the Draft State Budget were discussed with the Budget Committee in the preparation of the draft for first reading. Most of the proposals were adopted and submitted to the session. Every National Deputy has been handed over the materials of the Court of Auditors, so that the decision is given to you by the distinguished People's Deputies. We tried to tell the truth, even though it was offensive and harsh. But the ideologie of conscious understatement of the income part, the unjustified limitation of the spending part, cannot be allowed. The Committee's conclusions and proposals to the draft State Budget Act are well founded, professionally prepared and, in our view, deserve all support. I've got everything, thanks for the attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u82	Thank you, Valentin Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the factions, we've agreed in accordance with the Rules for up to three minutes for each performance. Dear colleagues, there have been many people here, including factions of several people. So I propose, from the faction of "Our Ukraine," who will be speaking? Assadchev, please. Prepare the factions of the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u83	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, "Our Ukraine." Dear friends, of course, I can speak easily and difficultly, because I am a member of the budget committee myself, and we have worked very hard on the budget. Believe me, the budget committee worked with the deputies all day long. I just want to stop at some of the components of the budget that we think are very specific to the situation that is now taking place in Ukraine. The first problem, for example, for me, which was there and which I wanted to solve, was the many tragedies of the loss of lives in Ukraine as soon as possible, and how it was responded by the government, for example, when the draft budget was submitted. Well, let's take, let's say, numerous casualties on coal mines. Well, it would seem that there are many government orders to resolve this issue. It turns out that we have great programs in Ukraine, scientific programs related to mine demethaneization. And what do we see in the budget? Seventy-five million are on lifesaving jobs. Maybe. But it's only 240,000 that's based on scientific research in the coal sector. Well, what are these proportions? So then we just say to people, "We plan, as you've been buried, respected miners, so we're going to hide in the future, we're not going to deal with this problem from a scientific point of view. I, for example, made such a proposal, the committee supported it: a lot more, if we find a resource, let's give the coal experts a hint, maybe we'll have to make concrete programs to make it impossible for us to go further, so to speak, all the tragedies that we've had in the coal sector. The next tragedy, you know, is the Squirrels. We've lost so many people. Well, it's government. You know, one of the reasons was that our pilots, the flight deck doesn't have a certain, so to speak, flight of these hours that they should have. There is virtually no amount of kerosene available under the Ministry of Defence, and there is no provision for kerosene, nor is there any funds for them to be able to charge the necessary resources in schools. The committee added 27 million, we added only this article. That's our approach. I'm done. Teachers. So we have 100 percent of the force that raised the salary, the teachers, the doctors are 0. You know, we've now found an additional resource to raise teachers' wages. I think we'll still be working with the appropriate committee. But I think we need to go through the relevant laws to give extra resources, and no less than 50 percent in the next year we've raised our teachers' salary. The doctors also took this, I think, a significant step forward when we transferred all the hospitals from all the ministries, except the Ministry of Defense, where we had just left the hospital, to the Health Ministry system. We believe that by optimizing this network, there are also significant costs for improving the wages of doctors. I just stopped at a certain point. I think we should endorse the committee's conclusions. Yet an additional resource of over 4 billion, something that the government has not predicted today. On the second reading, I think we'll find other additional resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, from the Communist faction, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Please identify yourself from the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Urrigible Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction is proposing a draft of the Ukrainian State Budget Act to send Kabmin for radical processing in accordance with the same budget resolution. Why am I asking you to do this today? Let's think about it. The 1990s State budget for Ukraine is $84 billion. The government budget for the following year 2003 is $8.3 billion. What happened to Ukraine in 10 years? And in answering this question, we need to draw attention again and again to everyone who is represented by the government, the State Budget, is essentially a mirror of the looting substance and the goal that Ukraine is driven by the so-called elite of the nation by the prescriptions of Western consultants, by eradicating practically national signs of both our economy and our politics. What's this government budget if it's really a budget, when there's not a penny in the budget for centralized capital investments. Maybe it doesn't matter to anyone, which means that the State budget doesn't help create jobs, introduce new technologies, and much more. What we have in the State budget is that 11 years in Ukraine does not create national wealth, but they do steal away. Examples of tens of thousands. Starting with certification privatization and ending today with a policy of stretching the energy system of Ukraine. Of course, in such a policy, economic budget is never enough to finance budget organizations starting with sex and ending with culture, science, let alone state support for the economy, especially the fuel and energy complex and agriculture. Another conclusion. The state budget, unfortunately, has become a tradition, becoming a breadwinner for certain creditors. There are no positive changes in government debt management, since the basic principle of borrowing is completely ignored. Once again, the loan goes not to the real economy, but to the repayment of debts. We also need to consider that the problems of mining areas are constantly getting worse. Cities are being destroyed. In Donetsk, the town of Chatharsk Torres disappears. In the Luhansk region of Stahanov and Branka. People are dying. Together with the government, the spending of the State Department of the Coal Industry is reduced by 546 million dollars, including for mining and rescue operations by 250 million dollars. Income growth is expected not by economic activity, but by the income tax coming from citizens, and that's what we're looking at when we're talking about our local budgets. Let us stress that nearly 87 percent of the public budget expenditure on education and health is made up of so - called own incomes. It's people who finance it and not the state that directs the governance processes and supports us and the citizens. But we have to understand that this next draft of the budget, it's going to be the toughest in terms of attitudes towards specific voters. And to the profound belief of the faction of Communists, that's exactly what it shows to be anti-State. See article 56, in violation of the nine articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, and it is proposed to reduce substantially compared to the previous year the list of laws in force concerning the granting of benefits to individual categories of citizens. Nitrogens are primarily affected. The possibilities for all categories of disabled persons are limited. The benefits of paying housing and utilities to teachers and cultural workers in rural areas. As well as article 29, practically the benefits for our veterans are being destroyed. The Communist faction has repeatedly offered specific directions to improve the filling of the income part of the budget. And here we were given a project on, let's say, amendments, whether they're counted or not. Virtually all changes in the Communist faction to fill the income part of the budget have been rejected. And the last. The Communist faction insists that in order to figure out what's going on in the economy, it takes at least once every eleven years to sort out a separate income portion of the budget. Then we'll understand how the economy works and where we get the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, please, I just insist that you follow the Rules, don't force the microphone to be turned off. From the faction of "Industrials and Entrepreneurs" and "Trug Ukraine" who will act? They're thinking for now. Please, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, please. Prepare the factions of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, in such a short period of time, it is very difficult to make a thorough analysis of the State Budget project presented by the Government and the proposals made by the Budget Committee. So I'm just going to stop at the key points that they see from the perspective of the faction of the SDR (o). The most serious shortfall in the 2003 State Budget project submitted by the Government has in fact proved to be a real reduction in funding for a number of key social articles. The government's proposal to increase the expenditure of the Social Fund by 3.1 percent in fact, taking into account the projected average annual inflation, means their actual reduction. Some subsidies were also foreseen for local budgets to finance state social programs. In doing so, the bill provides for a substantial increase in allocations for the maintenance of power, law enforcement and fiscal structures. There are also government bills and income planning problems. At the same time, the Faction SDPU (o) believes that the shortcomings of the project can be remedied in the process of being considered within the walls of the Supreme Council. This gives us a chance to accept the budget in an intensive manner within the time limits set by law. The Budget Committee has been working on a government project of the State Budget, including an opportunity to increase income on taxes, from the implementation of the assets of the Armed Forces, from dividends, from state-owned companies and from a number of other positions. It is also proposed to increase income by amending tax legislation by 2.5 billion dollars. All of this can be viewed as a positive moment. At the same time, the budget committee's proposal to allocate revenue from privatization to budget revenues seems questionable in terms of receiving these funds. The budget committee proposes to increase local budget expenditure by 1.8 billion dollars, including more than 1 billion dollars for education, health care, and culture, primarily with a view to raising the salaries of workers in these areas. It is also proposed that 400 million dollars be earmarked for local investment budgets. As a representative of the SDPI faction, I support the budget committee's proposals aimed at increasing social expenditure and increasing social protection for the population, because this approach is in line with the tasks with which our party went to the elections and does its work in Parliament. But at the same time as a professional economist, I understand that if such an increase is not built on real income, it can lead to the deception of people who do not get the promised higher salary. Finally, I would like to point out that a large number of proposals for the 2003 National Budget of Ukraine have been made, but many proposals from social issues, such as proposals by the faction of the SDPI(o), have not been reflected in the conclusions of the Committee on Budget Issues. In view of the above, the faction of the SDPI(o) considers that the 2003 draft budget should be thoroughly redrafted with a view to finding real resources to increase social expenditure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u88	Thank you. Viennese from the faction of Sozpariti. "Ukraine," please determine who will be speaking. Is there a Winsky? Baranowski instead of Winsky? Please. The next one is "Regions."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u89	Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine thoroughly analysed the budget proposal of both the government and the Committee for Ukraine for the following year. The income part, in our view, of the budget, is sorry for the expression "inappropriately small." Taxes in Ukraine are not paid by all but by those who have to pay them first do not pay the richest. They freed themselves from this payment because of the various tax benefits, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they invented a term of mortgage. What is the design of the dimwitness? Citizens? No, they pay the tax carefully from natural persons. Weaknesses have been created by subjects of entrepreneurial activity, which is already worth 12 billion dollars this year. Budgeting should be a priority, so we don't write off debts or restructure them. Enterprises use budget funds as their own. The procedure realized that it didn't work, then the money went abroad, and then the business went down. The question of the benefits, it's the most painful part of the income. Let's say we carry the damage, the benefits, the damage we've suffered over the past year, as a result of this year. Tell me, even though one entrepreneur works for himself? It stimulates harmful activity. After this benefit was accepted, businesses became much larger, and the amount of damage increased. The price of this benefit in Ukraine is 1.4 billion dollars a year. That's right. Again, the benefits that are accepted in the fields. Let's say black metallurgy when the profit line is paying the state 464 per 70 million. In fact, the government's 9 billion dollars worth of aid is being paid. That's right. And please tell me, what state control does it take to use the funds received from the enterprises at the expense of these benefits? What have these costs had an impact on? To raise the field? What would give tomorrow perhaps more income to the budget? Have their host’s foreign accounts been filled? The government in this situation operates from the position of double standards. The cancellation of the population benefits was offered to the Supreme Council, and as for the benefits to enterprises, in this case what I was talking about, they remain silent. You can't go around here, too, Dusu, who's been talked about a lot. It's all done to get the most high-end enterprises to be able to export the net profit under the control of the Supreme Council, and the profits to be added to the financing of the President's Administration. And, dear friends, 124 billion. The major assets of the state, which are now being used by commercial structures, are in the order of 80 billion. They don't pay anything to the State Budget, not a penny. Tell me, what kind of businessman would give his property to someone in charge if he didn't pay him for it and he didn't get it? And about the spending system. You can't agree with a faction of socialists that's 1 billion. increased expenditure for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thus, not only opposition but also the members of the Supreme Council and businessmen are being beaten today, and this is being sustained financially. We're building a police state. You can't, my dear friends, agree with the funding that I don't know where it came from today, the budget committee voted 75 percent for road construction. Now there's a 100 percent figure. Road construction is increasing by 1.3 billion dollars by last year. It's a road construction that's not ready to swallow that amount, it's just that technology can't conquer that. I think it's either a simple mistake or something, but you can't let that happen. The Socialist faction believes that the positive part of the budget is that what the committee proposes to increase subsidies to local budgets is essential to the government’s proposal. This will enable teachers, doctors, cultural workers, and social workers to raise their salaries. One of our remarks is that this promotion needs to be made on January 1st, not September 1st, as proposed by the committee. We believe that the committee's project is better, given our proposals, it could be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u90	Richterov, faction of Ukraine, prepare Tarana-Terrena.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u91	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! The draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2003 was drafted on the basis of the budget code adopted last year. We have been living under the Budget Code for a year now, of course, and we cannot count it as negative. In our view, we have welcomed the adoption of the budget code that, at least today, we have independence from the personal relations of the heads of the region with the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the insufficient reasonableness of the projected revenues of local budgets, taking into account the economic and social situation of the regions, and the associated levels of compensation subsidies, cannot be overlooked. The environmental situation of individual areas in health care expenditure cannot be overlooked in these indicators. Individual consideration is needed to address the issue of individualized income indicators for depressed areas, such as mining cities, where coal restructuring is taking place. In addition, the negative effects of the introduction of a formula for more economically powerful regions of the country have to be noted, since virtually all regionally earned funds are directed to the State budget. We don't support this policy of hard money laundering, especially from powerful regions. We suggest that we apply an individual approach to the calculation of the income of the depressed areas, increase the reasonableness of the calculation of the income portions of the local budgets as a whole, and further define the factors on which the local budgets are formed. The proposed level of funding for the coal sector of 2.2 billion dollars is in no way going to improve the situation in this area. Under such conditions, it is not possible to carry out capital construction and technical resupply in this area, without which the coal situation will only worsen. It's worth reminding you that the Ukrainian Coal program, approved by the government, provides more than 5 billion dollars for these needs. The "Regions of Ukraine" faction addressed this issue to both the government and the Committee on Budget Affairs. We insist that the financing of the coal industry be approved at least at a level of at least 3.4 billion dollars. Otherwise, we will not vote for this budget. Traditionally, the Public Budget Office of the Ministers of Health Finance provides for very little. The proposed level of health funding will not improve the health situation. It should be noted that the total amount of allocations does not include the cost of restoring the ratio of health care professionals to the minimum wage of 165 dollars from 1 July of the current year. We've been talking for a year about how the budget should be developed on a new tax base. An imperfect system of taxation is depressing the economy today. Yes, on the one hand, a government racket in the form of a non-return on the added value is stifling businesses. The region’s economy is driven by negotiable costs, which have an extremely negative impact on the state of production, especially in the metallurgical and fuel energy complex. Undoubtedly, this is primarily true of the economy of the most powerful regions. Under such circumstances, taxpayers cannot account for workers who are chronically indebted to pay their wages and social pressures. In addition, this situation leads to a lack of community funds to the Pension Fund, a profit tax from citizens to local budgets, and, as a result, insufficient funding for the entire social systems. On the other hand, the tax burden on the income of natural persons does not allow at least part of the wages to be removed from the shadows. For a year now, draft laws on taxation of the income of natural persons have been introduced. And we haven't accepted enough. At least one bet will be reviewed and approved as soon as possible. As for the solution to the problems of non-returning the tax on added value. The measures proposed by the government in the draft budget cannot be considered to be an adequate situation. Therefore, the Ukrainian MP's faction insists on the inclusion in the 2003 spending portion of the State Budget of the funds to pay off the existing debt for VAT compensation. Finally, I wanted to comment on a few articles, but only one. It applies to everyone. Article 20 is unmotivated when it comes to completing a deposit guarantee fund for individuals at the expense of issuing government funds for securities. We don't think this can be supported in any way. Our faction has made specific proposals to the Committee on Budget Affairs. If you speak diplomatically, they seem to be counted. To be honest, they're ignored. This is the result of politicization of processes that not only take place in the Supreme Council but also in the committees as a whole. So our proposal is to send this draft budget back for re-reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone speaking to observe the Rules. You can't do that. He's taking two rules. Taran-Terren, please, Victor Vasilovich. Prepare Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u93	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, everything is recognized in comparison. Today, the average statistical Ukrainian lives on one dollar a day. This is the level of Europe 80 years ago. And at that time today, the average pension in the Baltic countries is $300. But the standard of living of Ukraine and the Baltic republics in the Soviet Union was about the same -- it was an economic aspect. Now spiritual. In Russia today, three and a half billion dollars are being allocated for the development of Russian, which poses no threat to the dollar equivalent. We have zero today. Although 25 million had previously been allocated for two years, this money was successfully stolen. Next. In Belarus today, the issue of return is virtually solved. This problem is being solved in Russia too. We have a return on the zero margin. I want to remind you, my colleagues know from the last call that the budget committee, when it was still headed by the Turks, offered to return one billion dollars last year in savings. Five hundred were allocated. Where did the six hundred million who stole the money go? They went: to the President's Office -- forty million dollars, to the Tax Administration -- one hundred thirty-two million dollars, and so on. Today, there is a great danger that even these fifty dollars will not be returned to people on deposits. Why? For that simple reason, the budget is not protected. The government funded the return of deposits this year only because the article was protected. Dear colleagues, again, are well - known in comparison. Please, in the government budget project, despite the heroic efforts of our budget committee, I highly doubt that anything can be done. Please, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is spending two billion and five hundred and thirteen million dollars. Please, the Attorney General's Office is offering two hundred and twelve million dollars. We heard our colleague Kadenuk's report yesterday, we heard about the space program. Please, there are only one hundred and thirty million available for space programs. So the prosecutor's office is two hundred twelve, all space one hundred thirty. Again, everything is recognized in comparison. On a visit from the President abroad, you know how they honor our President abroad, set aside about four million dollars. Only two million dollars have been allocated to the social protection of children throughout the country. And in terms of strength and service to the President, the fourth part of the budget is ten billion. I want to say that the government is hiding the real cause of the poor life and is accordingly motivated by the fact that it is necessary to pay off the debt, it is feverishly looking for new billion loans. I'd like to remind you, dear colleagues, that there was another government. The government of Yushchenka-Timishenko, and although it came after the presidential elections, as after the great ruin, when everything was stolen and thrown to victory by Kuchma, the government of Yushchenka did not borrow a penny, began to repay the debts, and, above all, returned the economy to growth. Because its priorities were economics and social and spiritual development. And that's why our position, the position of the Julia Timoshenko bloc's proposed government budget option, we're categorically rejecting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u94	Dokkin Mikhailo Markovich, please. The next one is Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u95	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! For the first time, Ukraine’s budget history started the process of adopting Ukraine’s main financial plan in accordance with the Code of Budgets. For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft budget resolution and a draft budget were introduced on time. At the same time, the budget project leaves an impression on the guest of the past. It is based on a conservative scenario of economic and social development for 2003 based on the persistence of current tax and social legislation. The developers are not aware of the decisive fact that the economic system's movement to advance the evolution of the breakthrough, as defined by the President of Ukraine as the main priority of internal policy, is only possible in the context of large-scale technological development and technological modernization. At the same time, the adoption of the budget in this format will force Ukraine to move forward in an intensive way, leading to conservation of economic reforms. The proposed budget can be referred to as stagnation budget. It is devoid of developmental dynamics and maintains a steady state of progressive crisis. There is no follow-up to radical market reforms that will increase productivity, science and technology of production, and increase competition. As a result, we received, not a system-forming, but a purely fiscal document. It does not initiate, does not foresee budget reforms, is not consistent with the realities of the modern economic system in Ukraine. It seems that the government lacks understanding of the economic and social development strategy, which is directly dependent on the positive results of any transformation. The macroeconomic expectations of the government are too optimistic. Expecting a real GDP growth of 4 percent under the global recession is groundless, since Ukraine’s GDP for a third is shaped by external trade, that is, directly dependent on the environment in the external markets. The analysis shows that real GDP growth should be expected at 2 to 2.5 percent next year. The macroeconomic nonsensence is that there is a 4% increase in GDP, and the government is planning a real decline in the government's revenue by 3.6 percent. If all the budgetary parameters remain constant, this budget predetermines a significant amount of shadow costs, it is essentially a shadow budget. We have a paradoxical situation: a declared increase in all, without exception, of macroeconomic indicators, while at the same time reducing the income of the budget and reducing the level of social protection of the population. There was no room in the project to support the concept of small and medium-sized enterprises, and there was no basis for increased efficiency of production and prosperity. The implementation of the National Small Business Promotion Programme in Ukraine is funded at the 2002 level. Taking inflation into account, this means lower funding for programs. The current task is to create a strong banking and financial system. It takes not one day to win investors' trust, but it takes all branches of government to maintain innovation strategies and market-oriented economies. This will contribute both to foreign investment and to the return of capital to the economy of Ukraine. Reducing taxes on the income of natural persons and the profits of enterprises will contribute to the recovery of the financial system and the detinction of the economy. The Democratic Initiatives MP supports the draft budget only if the comments are taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u96	Thank you. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, prepare for Self-Floving Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u97	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol, European Choice. Dear colleagues! I would like to focus on some of the main, key points, in my view, that need to be addressed in the consideration of the budget. It cannot help but be seen that there is no budgeting for the year-to-year growth of the domestic gross product. This indicates that the current tax system is working properly. Although 4 per cent of domestic gross product growth is planned and 4.5 per cent of industrial growth is planned, the Government is still planning to reduce its budget income by 3 per cent. No matter how much we make the budget today, no matter how we try to make it work, we will not get the desired result, because, despite the need to build it, we are well aware that it is built on an old tax base that does not create the normal conditions for obtaining funds from the budget. Today everyone's saying that we have 50, 60, 70 percent, I don't know, the numbers call the different GDP that's in the shadows. Think about what kind of budget reserve we have, how many social issues and problems could we solve today if we pulled this problem today? It is our common misfortune that we have not been able to build a new tax base today. In order to mitigate the situation somehow, we need to make every effort to at least adopt a new income tax, a new profit tax, and a new VAT law to solve this problem by the end of the year. One more question. We can talk a lot about spending, about doctors, about teachers, about social problems -- it's all right, it's all important, but without a profitable stable part, without a budget, it'll share nothing. It's a short blanket that can't be pulled. And today we need to create all the conditions to ensure that industrial enterprises that are budgeting are functioning properly. Once again, VAT has become a stumbling block in this place. Today we're talking about 6.4 billion. non-returnable VAT, including 2.2 billion overdue. Let us, in the end, create at least a balance of VAT in the budget, bet and create a mechanism that would normally contribute to the work of industrial enterprises, does not wash off negotiable funds. Next, very painful subject. In 2003, there was a period of repayment of debts related to the International Monetary Fund. 3 billion. dollars! Think about it! One-fourth of the budget. Let's finally ask ourselves, who took these loans, what guarantees did they use? Because when these loans were taken, they said that we would improve production today, we would increase budget income. Either let them return the money, or let them be held accountable to the State! Again, the part that lies in the shadows is the construction of military housing. I'm not against military housing, that it needs to be built, but, excuse me, it's 400 million dollars worth of money laundering. Greven is a very rich luxury, let's finally figure it out. Exchange policy, we have an export-oriented state, 60 per cent of GDP -- we have exports, but we cannot force exporters today to hold the course back. Because with such a soft policy on the dollar, we could solve a huge, huge number of social problems. Local budgets are another problem. In drafting the Budget Code, we have made one huge mistake: we have not taken an interest in local authorities in monitoring the implementation of the central budget. Local budgets are implemented by 110-115 per cent and the central budget is implemented by 90 per cent. And the situation is that the largest corporations with billions of dollars of turnover are now being lost. Well, it's a fairy tale and a bluff most natural. Now, as far as I'm concerned, there are literally two words about benefits. I want to say that we need to move on to targeted assistance in the end. We cannot solve this problem so that people receiving subsidies can travel to Mercedes and 50 per cent pay for housing with castles.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u98	Complete the Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u99	I'm done. I believe that we will all have to work very seriously, to refine this budget in order to be acceptable and to send it to the refinement of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u100	The self-driving Valery Ivanovich from the agrarians, to prepare the Desert Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u101	Self-driving Valerius, a forestry wing of Ukraine’s Agrarian Faction Party Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, honourable deputies! I want to put a stop to the problems of agriculture. The faction's proposals are sent to the budget committee, but I'm stressing the special weight for agriculture. Which includes the waste of credit resources for peasants, the temporary purchase of bread, support for crop selection programmes, tribal affairs, the social development of the village, and especially roads and schools in rural areas. When analyzed, the implementation of separate regulations on sources of financing for the road economy is only 50 percent for the example in the Plain area of underfunding. Last year, the budget allocated 74 million dollars to forest management, but in the form of resources and tax payments, Striesospo returned to the budget, I emphasize 145 million dollars. Believe me, in times of crisis, for the last decade, the branch has done its utmost to reduce its dependence on the budget. Many things have been accomplished. Budget funding for the industry has been cut nearly five times in the last 10 years, the downsizing has been on the other side, and the wages of the foresters remain one of the lowest, and the working conditions are extremely difficult. I'd like to remind you that at the age of 37-38, and not only were the repressors sent either to Kalima or to the logging plant. I'm moving on to our hour. The car tractor park is catastrophically out of date, the investment in industrial development, the support is completely unsettled. In recent times, there has been hope for improvement in connection with the adoption of a number of government programs. Yet the draft budget developed it. Instead of increasing the Cabinet's decision by 60 million dollars, that's equal to this year, the government is reducing by 20 million. Why and to what will this lead? For the first time in postwar years, the work of logging and protective plantations will have to be done, and even during the difficult postwar years, up to 200,000 acres [200,000 ha] of new forests have been created. It will not be possible to hold another state accounting for the forest fund, which is essential in connection with the ongoing process of transferring part of the forest to municipal property. Plans for road construction, bridges in Carpathians will remain on paper. Deeply convinced that reducing budget support in today's conditions is a mistake that can lead to the collapse of a number of important national programs can turn into a disaster for state-owned enterprises. In this regard, I propose to maintain the financial support of the state forest management at least this year’s level, and please support me. And the last. For the first time, I drew attention to forest problems at the state level in the middle of the last millennium, the finance minister, I emphasize, of King Louis XIV of France, Colbert, is called a great one. He was able to bring to the people's minds his famous thesis: "France will die from a lack of forests." That is why I want to remain not only in the memory of the forestmen but also of all Ukraine. It takes little for God to provide him with health and understanding of the problems of the foresters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u102	It's a wasteland, Valerius Pavlovich. Next up is Hubsky. Valerius Pavlovich comes from the faction, from the committee, right? And he's asking for two minutes? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I have been very serious about budgeting all the time, about the main financial document for the following year, and I have studied it carefully. Unfortunately, I want to point out right now that the tables that are only being given today, just like I do, I think that most of the people's deputies are just starting to get acquainted with the final table and the proposals that the Committee on Budget Affairs has been working on. So I'm going to take a brief statement on two issues that concern today the faction of the People's Democratic Party that I lead, and the Transport Committee. The first question is about our overall support. I don’t understand why the issue of the direction of work is being so financed, such as that of the National Committee of the Family and Youth. I would like the State Committee to take these questions into account when the following work is done. Now, let's talk about the next one. For our committee, which was fully supported by the faction. We have made a statement that if there is no increase in the financing of road construction in Ukraine, we will not vote in favour of such a budget in any case. We are pleased that the funding committee has doubled on the road. And I want to say that the Transport Committee has prepared its proposals, and I have not been able to make or increase budgetary funding at the time when I worked as the Minister of Transport, and I thought I could do it by leading the committee. We've made 58 suggestions. Only one count. Why should committees then consider the draft budget if all of the Committee's proposals are not taken into account? I just don't get it. First question. If you remember, we voted in favour of inclusion in the budget of the port congregations, the air navigation congregations, and Parliament did not then support these proposals. Again, the Committee on Budgets brings these questions to the draft budget. This can't be happening. If this is included in the budget, we will not be able to fully deal with or not at all to fund the modernisation of Ukraine’s air navigation service system, the budgetary financing of a project to modernise the air navigation service system at the expense of EBRD credits, which is $38 million, where the unification of the civil and military air traffic system in Ukraine amounts to 26 million dollars and so on. So I want to say that we can't carry out this system, especially that Ukraine has entered Eurocontrol. And that's the deal. by our Parliament. Now for the individual directions of work. We've proposed the creation of a leasing fund. The government approved the committee, the director of the lysing fund in updated aviation technology. not included. There is no program to upgrade the passenger car of railway cars, according to the law. The safety of the state system, which should work in our country, including the maintenance of all the locks in our Dniper territory, is not included. In connection with the damage we have suffered as a result of economic sanctions and war against Yugoslavia, the Danube Sea Sailing has suffered, and 6 million dollars have been offered. The Ministry of Transport provides debt to a shipping company. Last year, this debt amounted to 22 million dollars. In view of the failure to resolve the question or to implement the property or to include the budget. Today, debt has become 40 million dollars. And this will go to the end, and today the sailors, 3.5 thousand people won't get paid and there's no way they can get out of work. And many other questions. So what I'm proposing is that, given that we're running out of time and we're done here, I'd like the Committee on Budgets to take into account the proposals made by the Transport Committee. If they are not counted, we will not vote in favour of such a draft budget. And I would suggest that the people's deputies proceed not to the general vote, but to the article vote tomorrow, when we vote in favour of the draft budget for 2003. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u104	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Houbsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich. Next Astrove-Sumilov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! Ukraine has indeed declared the social orientation of economic policy. That is why the State Budget for 2003 should be aimed at solving these urgent problems. How, then, does the document presented today meet these requirements? First. Again, it is expected to leave the minimum wage of 165 dollars. What's the social orientation here, when we know very well today, is that there's an approved minimum, as they say, living minimum of 342 bracelets. In the first half of the year, at least 171 bracelets and in the second half of the year to 342 bracelets are offered by our MPs. The next social issue is to increase assistance for small families, families with children, and disabled persons from childhood and children with disabilities. And the equally important question is helping a child to be born. A very simple example. To date, we are offering assistance for the birth of a child to set 684 bracelets next year. That's only 108 million dollars of budget money. It's not even going to work out. But this is a huge layer of social issues, which for all of us, for stability, costs only 108 million dollars. Why aren't we going to do this? I can't find the answer to that question. Next question. Today, Ukraine has 111 seats in the world for health care costs for every citizen. And even among the countries of the former Soviet Union, the eighth place. If we agree with the draft budget that we are considering today, where 3.2 percent of GDP is planned for health care, we will soon run these countries, where this level is about 8 percent. The next priority is education. We know today that the average wage on education is about 300 dollars, which is only 82 percent of the working person's living minimum. Yes, of course, it's hard today to fully implement the 57th article of the Education Act, but we have to go to do it completely. Perhaps not immediately but gradually during the year. Otherwise, our voters who chose us here will ask questions first of all on this subject. The next equally important question is raising the school level in the village. We understand perfectly. That without computerization, without information, we're not going to give anything to the kids. Again, this question, as in the previous budget, has been taken into account, but no money has been allocated. This budget is practically out of the question. That's negative. And I'm not talking about science where the average of important articles, including science and technology programs and the Academy of Sciences, and the Ministry of Education is shrinking. We can't go there. How else can we reduce the minimum that today provides exclusive wages? It's unfair and not relevant. This is our conclusion. No proposal from the People's Government MP was taken into account, unfortunately, although they spoke, they asked that they should not, but none were counted. We think it's unacceptable. We believe that the budget needs to be redrafted and that it cannot be taken into consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u106	Thank you. Astrov Shumilov, please, Gennady Kostinovich. Next Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In the life of the State, there must be no direction of little or no significance. But recognizing the unequivocal importance of all areas of public development, it must draw attention to the existence of a strategic sector on which the security of the country is dependent both energy and political and social. It's coal. Today, coal is the only reliable energy carrier, the main fuel for Ukraine. Besides, it's cheaper for other energy carriers, it's stocked up to 400 years. Unfortunately, we only remember coal when the heating season reads, or in connection with the tragedies that prove that the delay in aiding the industry in the literal sense of death is similar. The coal industry is supported by the State around the world. The abolition of domination in the first years of Ukraine's independence had put the industry on its knees and forced it to move to an internal grant. The situation has literally exacerbated the failure to pay for the fuel shipped at the power plant. In fact, the coal miners had been lending the State for several years. This policy has resulted in the full washing of working capital plus chronic underfunding of capital, the spending of core funds up to 80 per cent, the lack of funds for security requirements and, as a final, the reduction of capacity and production capacity more than twice. The coal crisis is automatically shifting to whole industries. For Lugansk, coal represents 40 per cent of industrial workers, 28 per cent of the wage fund, the fifth part of payments to Ukraine's consolidated budget, the definition of living standards for almost half of the population in the region, the socio-economic development of sixty-three mining cities and towns. For us, shutting down mines is a real drama, a tragedy that can explode at any moment. Depressive cities and settlements, submerged territories, abandoned houses, and most importantly people. In the mining settlements of Donbassa, the massive increase in suicide rates is one of the highest levels of poverty. A real opportunity to lift the coal industry from its knees, to make the coal competitive, to inhale life in the dying cities and towns of Donbass, and to proceed without delay with the 2010 coal programme. The programme provides for the updating of the mine, technical re-arms, the construction of horizons and mines, replacement of worn equipment and a high-production facility that ensures the safe conduct of mining. But already in the first year of life of this programme, instead of the projected 5.2 billion. Only 2.6 was allocated and 5.5 to 2.2 billion would be provided for 2003. At least 3.5 billion is required. Inventory for development and support of the current life of mines and another 2 billion Grieves are needed to deal with the consequences of a reckless attitude towards the closure of mines. These are not only for physical closure and maintenance of the social sphere, the provision of free coal to disabled persons and retirees, the payment of regressive claims, the costs of working mines today. We are obliged to approach the 2003 budget objectively and impartially in the coal industry's ownership of at least 5.4 billion bracelets. And now, in line with the line of reference, Peter Alekseevich’s reply to the fact that the longnoses needed to be planted more. So I can say that miners have already drowned the dust they are swallowing because they lack the means to create more comfortable working conditions; they have been overwhelmed by the troubles they suffer in the form of accidents and the troubles caused by the closure of mines. Our People's Choice Group supports the 2003 budget only in the light of the funding programme at the “Coal of Ukraine 2010” programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u108	Please, everyone, stay on schedule! Please, Nightshade Mikola Petrovich, prepare for Semenyuk. After Noshchenko, let's move on to the Committees. Mikolo Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u109	The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues, the faction of Business and Industry Parties and the Hard Ukraine, examined the project proposed by the government, studied and made a number of important observations. The most important of them are reflected in the project that we are looking at today. We are pleased today that our efforts to implement fully in 2003 the law on financing road, road construction adopted, taken into account, inspires hope that our roads will be better and that the first problem of our society, which has been going through the centuries, will be done, Today, however, we need to talk more about things that have not been taken into account, things that have not been achieved during the budget process. Every year we ask ourselves what kind of person has a budget, what are the priorities? Today and in a report by colleagues, it was said that the budget had a social face. But it's a common face. Yes, indeed, in the costs that. We call it, $1 billion is going to be going to raise wages -- education, medicine, social protection. Although we also know here that educators and teachers are protected by law, how can other budget workers be able to raise their salaries? But in fact, the most important social protection concerns people who are not working, and today I would like to talk to them. In fact, as a member of the budget committee, I haven't been able to convince my colleagues that the actual moratoriums on wage levels are 165 dollars, the minimum wage level is 80 dollars, which is written down, and we're going to be using this standard for two years, and it doesn't even correspond to the inflation processes that are going through. So we made an offer even in this way: 80 for families, where there's at least one working member of the family, and for others, it's disabled people, it's enough to raise 10 to 15 bracelets to help them. The second question, the proportionality of funding. I would like to point out that in the last year, there was a imbalance, and the executive authorities on the spot were unable to implement the resource provided for in the budget to offset the mistakes made, the circumstances that have arisen. I support the concept of depressed areas. If there are only 20 percent of the budget base in the region, how can we talk about the continued existence of the budget? Our faction also supports the proposal that the benefits provided by the current legislation in 2003 cannot be abolished. And that article about replacing them with targeted social assistance needs to be done first. Not on disabled people, not on veterans of war and labor, there are other benefits to the population that can be worked out and then applied. I would like to emphasize once again that our faction, MPs, will continue to work to further the social protection of low-income populations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u110	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, please. Zybenko's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u111	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the Social Monitoring Commission held three meetings to consider budget proposals. And they found a great deal of trouble in part of the fact that in fact the funds allocated for the maintenance of the State Property Fund are well - founded. At the same time, and with regard to the financing of the Special Fund for Maintenance, and above all, the regional state funds, are not entirely justified. First of all, the groundless thing is that even the figures that are budgeted today were in the first sentence of 2.1 billion, and the budget committee today is offering 4.4 billion, they're unrealistic. And the last time the 2002 budget was reviewed, the Socialist Party warned, and the Control Commission warned that the cost of privatization would not come. [[I checked it according to the records.]] Because, first of all, there is uncontrolled control over what businesses are leading to fictitious bankruptcy. And what I said this morning is that we actually have two cabinets of ministers today, and the privatization is conducted by five organizations, and I think we'll say that in the report of the State Property Fund, as it's done practically on the legislative basis that was done after the majority was formed in Parliament in 2000. In fact, privatization is being done through fictitious bankruptcy, through specialty, through an appropriate tax bond. In fact, objects are priceless. And that's why the State Property Fund doesn't actually work yet. Putting that figure in the budget is 4.4 billion. Without privatization programs, it's just about the unrealistic numbers that aren't going to happen today. At the same time, at a meeting of the special review committee, we examined in detail where the funds were spent. And it was surprising to us that 56 percent of the funds that are going to finance the State Property Fund today are going to foreign advisers, with counselors offered by the Cabinet of Ministers being determined only this year. True, the State Property Fund managed only on a competitive basis to pick up these advisers. As the privatization program was not implemented, it is strange that the State Property Fund, by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, the number, more faithfully, under the direction of Cabinet of Ministers No. 194, had to borrow money in those surrounding areas that would still be privatized. I mean, they haven't privatized yet, and they already have money from Dnipropetrovsky, Zaporziski, Kharkiv oblenergo. We have a specific offer, given what I was doing this morning. First. Gennady Andriyovich, as soon as possible, passed a law on the administration of public property. According to article 113 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the administration of state property today is provided only by the Cabinet of Ministers or an authorized body and the transfer of objects to various administrations of the President or foundations - this means that we will never have in the income part of the budget the cost of renting state property. And we don't have the right dividends to come into the budget. That's the first one. The other one. We are sure to make an offer from our committee to take that proposal into account in part so that 3 percent of the leases will go to a special fund so that the State Property Fund can specifically control the efficiency of the use of state property. Because no one actually controls it today. And this is an appropriate norm, which in its own time makes it impossible to work today with the Regional Department of the State Property Fund. We will make our suggestions in writing. But once again, I want to pay special attention until there's an order in the administration of state property, treasury property, there will be no budget replenishment. And the cost of privatization won't come. This is a warning to both our committee and the Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u112	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich. The next Kluev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons is very thorough, I would say, has scrutinized the draft budget, which is given and the main priorities set out in this draft budget. The Committee, and the major population categories, are the most disadvantaged, including veterans, pensioners and disabled persons, once again expressing serious concern over the fact that the project has yet another attempt to balance the draft budget with the most disadvantaged population category. When I look at this draft budget and I see how the power structures are financed, and how the social sphere is financed, I understand what state we've built with you -- unfortunately, the police state. That's why, based on the approach taken to providing funding for social programs, the committee believes that the way in which this draft document is submitted to the Supreme Council, and even with the comments that have been made today, it can't be accepted. We made our specific comments. By the way, the vast majority of these observations are not taken into account by the Committee on Budgets, and that's an unnecessary reason why we can't support this document. Three of the most pressing problems that I would like to pay particular attention to. Again, it's disgraceful, and I would say, the criminal practice of depriving the most vulnerable categories of the population, I would stress once again, pensioners, veterans, the disabled of those poor orphans' benefits, but the mechanism of deprivation is improving. Now some of these benefits are being eliminated by the State budget, and some of the benefits will be destroyed in another way -- kind of through some subsidies and subsidies they're being transferred to local budgets. But I understand, knowing the state of affairs in the local budgets, that the disabled, the pensioners and the veterans there just won't get them, and the result will be the same. The other one. This project, I'll tell you that it ended with that euphoria and that fog that I was talking about, we have growth, growth, GDP growth, industrial production and so on and so forth. If so, why did the minimum wage remain at the level of this year? If so, why did the payment of veterans of the Great Homeland War remain at the same level? If that's the case, why is there a so-called, guaranteed subsistence minimum at the same level? I mean, it's about him not being here. And third, most painful. I would like to address the Minister of Finance and the head of the committee of profile. On March 2, 2002, a decree of the 253 Cabinet of Ministers was adopted on a strategy for replacing social benefits with targeted money. My position as deputy, as chairman of the committee, is that we cannot do this at all today. But the document was accepted and there are three stages to its implementation in this document. Today, 2002 and 2003 have been defined as a preparatory stage, a stage in making appropriate changes to legislation, working mechanisms, and so forth. And so on. I mean, this is the point where a real replacement can't happen. I understand that you will not reject this strategy, but at least follow the document that the government has adopted itself, and I'm sorry, you're still obliged. I reiterate that the committee in the form of the draft document will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u114	Andre Petrovich was the cuddler. Next Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! Preparations for the first reading of the State Budget Act 2003 are not easy. There is a significant contradiction between the positions of Minfin. sectoral ministries and these contradictions are unfortunately not being removed. Asynchronousness and inconsistencies remain between the Government and the National Bank of Ukraine on the main monetary policy lines. All of this shows that budgetary reform is, unfortunately, procrastinating. Finally, it is necessary to move from the position of the accountant to the position of the manager of public financial resources. We need to consider budget funding not just to cover certain costs. Above all, this is the financial security of public priorities, and I stress that it is the government, the programmes approved and adopted by the Government and the Parliament. State programmes must be implemented, otherwise the very concept of State economic policy is meaningless. Let us begin by saying that the Government's budget proposal is almost two and a half times lower than the financial plan of the Government's “Ukrainian Coal” programme. Moreover, for 2003, funding is proposed for $400 million less than the approved amount for 2002. Significant underfunding is also planned for electricity and nuclear safety. Thus, the coal industry -- minus 3.2 billion dollars in fines from a legitimate need; electricity and nuclear safety -- minus 315 million dollars in fines from a legitimate need. Such a destructive approach is difficult to overcome, since, in accordance with article 40, part 2, of the Budget Code, the Committees of the Supreme Council should indicate sources of increased funding and no proposals should be made to revise the tax revenue forecast. Consequently, it is sufficient for the Government to underestimate the cost of the State budget project in a manner that undermines the constructive nature of parliamentary work in its consideration. This could have been avoided if the budgetary committee, together with the Government, had organized a so-called “zero reading” of the State budget project, when joint work and prior harmonization of positions had taken place prior to the formalization of the Supreme Council. This practice has been applied sufficiently in developed countries. The unscrupulous opposition to budget funding for all of us is an unacceptable luxury. Therefore, our committee, together with the experts of the chief budget managers, has carefully analysed the current and promising budgetary funding needs of the TEC. Our decision contains proposals to be taken into account on first reading, namely, the financing of the coal industry of 5.4 billion grivens for 2003. These funds would not only cover current costs, but would also enable the coal industry to be rehabilitated. The Committee also reviewed other options for budget funding. The minimum scenario that requires the allocation of 3.8 billion bracelets is this option with no prospects for the industry. At the same time, the coal industry will remain at the 2002 level. The funding offered by the Government in the amount of 2.2 billion dollars is an unmanaged situation in the mines. Only in 2003 will we have to close 65 mines -- some 150,000 unemployed -- so these are additional subsidies to local budgets and job creation costs that are unfortunately not covered by the project. Second. Increase their total budget for electricity and nuclear safety to 60 million grivens, including an increase of 46 per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u116	Andrew Petrovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u117	Now, just a second, if you don't mind. 46 per cent funding for the safe operation of the shelter facility and funding for the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Third. Allocation of 3 million bracelets to complete the development of an energy strategy. Dear colleagues, due to the lack of time, I believe that a proposal has now been prepared by the four factions, a decision by the Supreme Council that the draft budget for 2003 should be re-readed. I would like, distinguished colleagues, to support this draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u118	Request to the secretariat. When the minutes are over, turn off the microphone for 3 minutes. Tomenko, next Tomich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u119	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information has debated this issue and we continue to talk about it because we are convinced that the real budget discussion in Ukraine has only just begun. It is sad that this budgetary discussion takes place within the power and does not go through the social, national struggle. The point is, according to the budget, it's the only way for society to see once a year what power does, just like elections -- the only way to communicate with government once every four years, is to discuss the budget. So the number of people who are in the room right now and the kind of curiosity that's on the bed is only saying that it's actually a document of the ruling political elite or authority that this authority doesn't believe in, not that society or people or journalists. And it seems to me that this situation needs to be changed in principle, perhaps in such a way as to introduce a kind of zero-reading or public reading. And before bringing the first budget version of the Cabinet of Ministers into the session room, together with the committee, he gathered the greatest authorities, the best intellectuals of Ukraine, and they would sit and in public mode debate the very concept of this document. And then we debated in the form of the anticipated first or second readings. Because when scientists or public experts influence today, in some way or another, there's only a game of numbers, we don't discuss the concept of basic economic law, because the struggle between the government and the committee or the Supreme Council is already on the level of numbers. I think it's a bad practice to move away from. Just like moving away from the practice of having two budgets. You know, between 2000 and 2003, the so-called Special Budget Fund is already scheduled for 22 percent. It's almost halfway through the budget. I think one day someone will write the true story of this second budget and we will find out where it was used, but it has to be stopped in principle. As far as the media is concerned, our principle of position, we need to start a process of disclosing the media, we need to stop the use of budgetary resources by local executives, representatives of central government authorities who are somehow convinced that national money is the money to explain their active positive activities. And it's social money, it has to be done in this way. Just as this budget is likely to have to be maximized. When it comes to us national deputies, it is said, how much we eat, how much we drink, how much we spend each day. So obviously you have to write, you have to write about the President's Administration, the others. [[It's okay.]] So I went to the head of the President's Administration, and I've been waiting for a third month for an answer: how many people work there. I asked the basic question as a national MP. And what is the structure of the President's administration? I've got an answer!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u120	Everything, sit down, there's no time. Tomich Ivan Fedorovich. Next Nikolainka. If the "Regions" continue, it'll be three minutes too. Someone to start with. Have a seat, please. Ivan Fedorovich, please. Next Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u121	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. After taking a close look at the findings of the Public Budget Committee for the 2003 project on the financing of the agribusiness complex, it should be noted that the approach to financing this life-supporting sector takes place without taking into account the complex processes of reform and the failure to address the socio-economic problems in the countryside. As a positive decision by the Budget Committee, it should be noted. The project provides for an increase in development expenditure of 211 million dollars. However, the solution to major, most painful problems was not reflected in the State Budget project. First. Financial support. The practice of the last two years has shown that it is appropriate to make a cost of compensation at the expense of the budget costs of banks, commercial banks. As a result, banks have increased their lending of credit to the sector 3-4 times. The 1st bracelet of the budget stimulates more than 10 commercial bank resources. But instead of contributing to this positive trend and the transition to long-term lending, the draft budget provides only 62 million dollars against 150 last year. The other one. Agricultural technology. How critical is the condition and supply of agricultural products with technology. It is therefore hard to understand when the draft budget does not even have the modest amount of funds to partially offset the value of the complex agricultural techniques allocated for this year at 20 million dollars. What, then, with low capacity, with the price policy that has been put in place to ensure the technical level of agricultural production? Practically ignored is the fulfilment of the Ukrainian law to stimulate the development of domestic machinery for the APC to be implemented in the draft allocation budget. Third. An extra charge for the purchase of high - weight livestock at the expense of the budget. This is the most effective measure and results in a stable and positive outcome. However, the project has more than twice as much savings as in 2002. As a result, significantly reduced meat resources are rapidly exacerbating competitiveness. Four. Protecting and enhancing land’s fertility We need to realize that without substantial State support, this problem cannot be solved. Fertility in recent decades has declined to a catastrophic limit, and this is our environmental security. And even the scarce funds that were provided by the government were eliminated in the project. Fifth. State support for farms. This article has completely eliminated funding — more than 300,000 jobs in the village. And that's the first approach in 11 years. Six. Financing social development. Everyone knows the catastrophic state of this sphere. At the same time, in the State Budget project.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u122	Please finish, Ivan Fedorovich. Nikolainka, next is Pavlovsky. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if there's a rule or not or are we setting three minutes or not? Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u123	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. I want to touch four points first of all, which I think are decisive when we adopt the budget. First of all, I would like to draw the attention to today's government, Vasil Vasilovich Roggova, all colleagues, finance ministers and us, deputies, to the problem of providing the population of Ukraine with drinking water. The thing is, it's a very sharp problem. One thing when I live in the Kyiv region, let's say in a village, and I can pick up a bucket of water from a depth of eight meters and get drunk and get 100 bucks; the other thing is, when I'm in the Crimean region or in the Hersonian region, or in Odessa, and in order to get this bucket of water, I need to spend a huge amount of electricity, raise it to a depth of 120-130 meters and give it another 5-6 kilometers. And then you get this situation, and then you get the 100 dollar pension. So the problem of drinking water today has become the most painful. We have adopted a national water development programme. Unfortunately, in the draft budget for solving this problem, we don't see any cost, and this is a small total cost for Ukraine, about 901 to 100 million. If we don't solve it, then a whole bunch of regions, including in Western Ukraine, and in Lugansk, the Donetsk regions, these are just going to die out without support, because people are going to move to areas where there's drinking water. The other one. Education. There's going to be parliamentary hearings today, I'll be able to say more or less, but I'm going to say a little bit about priorities. The committee's asking for a minimum. Of science and education, 1.4 billion dollars. We know that today the government is covering up the income line for about 4 billion, in a mild sense, so these 1.4 billion can be found. First. Where we propose to spend them. It's 1.5 to 2 times the wage for teachers and science teachers. I look into the eyes of everyone here today, and I say, if our children are taught by a teacher for 170 dollars, there will be no MPs here, no state, nothing and no economy in Ukraine. A child’s diet. People good, during the war fed the children, today we propose that the first and third classes cancel. Let's do this differently. This is going to be at the expense of the budget, this is going to be, let's say, combined, and this is going to be at the expense of the parents. [[Budget and parents]] But everyone has to eat. Communication services. I spoke to Igor Olegovich, Minister of Finance. People are good! Today, KP. Ten million have public service debts. Today, 100 factories are shut off from the current of water, heat. There's 500,000 kids! Let's make this 40-50 million debt, let's pay it off, because these debts are still owed, and we're just paying the fines and fines to private utility energy. And I'm done. Computers, technical tools. Without a textbook, without a TSM, we can learn nothing without a computer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u124	Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich. Next Tanjuk Les Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! I'm speaking from the Regulatory Committee, and I'm going to talk about funding and securing the activities of the National Deputies, the Supreme Council as a whole. I want to say that the love that we see for the people's MPs in the media is also reflected in funding. Everyone understands as a team. Since time is short, I'll say so. At all levels of funding for the activities of the Supreme Council, all are unsurpassed this year. We ask you to fund once properly to create jobs because recently, on the committee, the national deputy of the Cloud said he would no longer go to the committee, because he doesn't even have a job. Today, two or three deputies sit in one of the assistants in one office. I mean, it's really a shame! Therefore, it is essential to ensure, first and foremost, the conditions for the activities of the people’s deputies. And it's connected, by the way. Even our district assistants can't rent a room because there's a sum that's going to be 3 square meters per person. We suggest we increase a little bit. It takes 1 million for all national MPs, but it has to be predicted. On the other hand, if the budget committee and the government do not support our proposals, the following year these national deputies living in hotels will be evicted because there is not a single penny available for the service home, the hotel, compensation, that is, no provision at all. So I propose that, under any circumstances, 15 million more be provided for hotels, for service accommodations, or for the homes of national deputies. That's the first one. The other one. Both national deputies and committee secretariats today are in the worst conditions. The same lawyer's salary, a staff member at the President's Administration is one and a half, or twice as high as what works in the Supreme Council, who writes and works with laws and doesn't reject them. So I'd like to point out that this category is the deputy and the committee secretariats are the ones working on the laws that are in the worst condition. Well, well. And to do that, it takes another 39 million to complete this facility in Garden, and then every national MP will have a job. Well, where do we get the money? Those who love us are from the President's Office, because it has twice as much money in the House of Commerce as it has in the entire Supreme Council. I'll take it from there for the Supreme Council. Well, in general, I want to thank you: the budget committee has taken all my proposals into account, but I have rejected one. But just like Japan used to: the renegade inventions of the USSR gave her $31 billion in profits. So you have to look at the downsides, there's one of my suggestions that's rejected, which sounds like the government has to give guarantees to those projects and those organizations that create jobs and science technologies, not to speculative operations. Here, Catherine Timofievno, there is no need for State guarantees for speculative operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u126	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u127	Only for the development of its own production. And all of this needs to be done, the government hasn't turned it down, so it's positive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u128	Quiet Paul Mikhailovich, please. Next up is Hara Vasil Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u129	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! The general philosophy of social reform, which the ruling elite maintained, put first and foremost reforms exclusively economic: privatization, fiscal stability, and the problems of reforming and financing culture and education were addressed second and third. As a result, legislation, such as the tax system and fiscal fulfillment, do not take cultural characteristics into account, nor do developmental structures that focus on income. The cultural sphere in economic law is divided into state-communal and non-state parts that remain de facto unequal. The state-communal sector of the cultural sphere is financed either way or poorly, almost exclusively by the state and local budgets. These costs are not even enough for salary and payment and utilities. There is also the problem of alternative funding mechanisms for culture, particularly by supporting cultural and artistic actions and competition-based projects. Instead, the nonstate sector has little State financial support. Moreover, even the mechanisms of such support, grants, substantial tax benefits, and practically no longer have been created. Despite a number of nonstate nonprofit organizations and associations in Ukraine, despite several years of legislative efforts and even some partial success, such as the adoption of the law on charitable activities, the third sector of social production is not in fact formed, and budgetary policies in the field of culture are affected. Thus, the state-owned sector of the cultural sphere is in a state close to stagnation, and the immature new non-state sector is almost devoid of public attention and support. And the problem is that because of the historical causes of the cultural goods and services market in Ukraine, foreign structures, such as Russian in pop music, bookmaking, American cinema, and shadow business, especially audiovisual music, seem to be much stronger. It should be noted that the effects of the policy of Russians over hundreds of years remain unrestrained. Therefore, the Ukrainian language does not yet have a place in society that is governed by the Constitution of Ukraine and has become sufficient to reflect the consolidation of all Ukrainian citizens. That is why the key to maintaining the cultural sphere in the deep sphere is the problem of reforming both the legislative base of culture and today's budgeting. So I suggest that next year in the area of culture increase, although today's proposal and the Committee on Budget Affairs are counted and added to 50 million, but these are hard copies. If you look at what's going on in the country clubs, there are sparrows flying in the city's cultural buildings, everything is going to be devastated, we see the spiritual desert. And that's why I'm proposing to everyone today who is lobbying for the high interests of their areas, their industries, make some effort on your own -- support culture, support the national Ukrainian perspective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Hara Vasil Grigorovitch, the next is Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! It must be honest to you that I and the members of our Committee on Social Policy and Labour are very ashamed to participate in a budgetary process that we cannot actually influence. It's a shame about the hypocrisy of a public car. The Cabinet claims that there has been progress in the economy, social policy, the social dimension of the 2003 budget, the improvement of people's lives. The President stated that, in his remaining two years, he would move the solution of social problems from a dead point of view and put the person at the centre of the State's care. In fact, there is a diametric opposite. The 2003 draft budget is an anti-national content and aims at the deterioration of the lives of citizens, almost all speakers from the rostrum have spoken about it today. It is very insulting that the vast majority of the proposals of our Committee on Social Policy and Labour have not been accepted, and those adopted in part, so to speak, have not been met by more than 10-15 per cent. The so-called social budget did not even adopt a proposal for the priority funding of protected budget lines, namely, salaries to teachers, doctors, cultural workers, militias and so on, social payments to disabled persons, orphans, Chernobylers, etc. What is there to talk about? Having declared the main priority of the budget to be a social focus, social security, social protection, Kabmin has actually reduced social spending by more than half a billion dollars this year. The project does not provide for the payment of salaries and other social benefits. It is planned to limit the conditions for receiving social assistance to poor families, to narrow down the number of citizens entitled to benefits. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes leaving the minimum wage for 2003 at this year's level of 165 bracelets per month, and even less living minimum than this year. And you and I know that this is a guideline for determining the amount of many social benefits. Despite the plans announced by the Cabinet of Ministers in the 2002-2004 programme of activities to bring the minimum wage closer to the minimum wage, the gap between them is widening: from the 48th this year to 45.6 in 2003. In six years of the Constitution, which requires a minimum social benefit at the minimum of living, we have not even moved to half the subsistence minimum, we are not overcoming, but we are increasing poverty. How do we understand the President's promise and the talks of the Cabinet of Ministers about the beginning of a happy life? In general, budgetary resources were not available in 2003 and required the suspension or limitation of the relevant provisions of 46 legislation, which constituted a grave violation of article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Even work protection activities, with a minimum requirement of 43 million, are planned to finance 30 million. We don't have a lot of funeral marches about work-related tragedies. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour of the Supreme Council cannot accept this prospect for Ukraine for 2003 and requires that it be put to root in the light of all the proposals made by our Committee and by all the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u132	Burjak Sergey Vasilovich. The next Demyochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u133	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues. Today you are presented with a draft of the Ukrainian State Budget Act in the first reading. It is especially encouraging that the budgetary process is gradually integrated into the civilized framework provided for in the Ukrainian Budget Code. We're going to expect that those budget distortions have gone into oblivion. At the same time, I want to make a point that we can't lose quality and efficiency by means of formality signs. So in order to take part in the discussion of a bill, the total volume of which is set out on 800 pages and distributed before the session starts, is simply unrealistic. At the same time, by taking an active part in the consideration of the bill, proposals were sent to the Committee on Finance and Banking, which means that I can really talk about what we have considered, analysed and discussed. That's three things. First. Consideration of the version of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, submitted by Kabmin for consideration from 14.09. 2002. It's different. This is a joint discussion between the two committees, our committee and the budget that took place on October 14, 2002. And thirdly, this is a report by the committee head. From the first question. After a thorough examination and discussion of the bill, the committee adopted its 20 - page decision on September 26 of this year. And this decision was sent to the Committee on Budget Affairs. I won't stop at the details. You will be able to read the committee’s conclusions in the material that has been distributed. But the main conclusion that our committee has drawn is that the projected macro-indicators of socio-economic development set up by the Cabinet of Ministers are not in line with the macro-indicators established in the economic development strategy, as well as the composition of the monetary policy of the state. And on behalf of the committee myself, I would like to emphasize that now, in our view, is not the time for macro-indicators, now is the time to make macroeconomic decisions. Unfortunately, we don't find such decisions in this draft budget. On the second question, we have already developed a plan of concrete measures and joint actions to increase the revenue of the State budget, and the committee has started to implement it in practice. I don't think it's necessary to convince someone that it's a priority to create a budget, not a distribution. Third, this refers to the report of the head of the budget. So there are really positive moments in it. They cannot be overlooked for noting that national MPs have already been noted. But in general, the budget is focused on providing current goals and functions. It did not foresee a strategic plan for economic growth, nor did it provide a place for innovation, which has been discussed so much. So there's a hope that this bill, when essentially working on the final version, will still be responsible for both the form and the content of the requirements that rely on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u134	People’s MP Demjochin of the Committee on Economic Policy is invited to prepare Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u135	Respectable leaders of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues, people's deputies, heads of government! The consideration of the draft State budget for 2003 by the Committee on Economic Policy was carried out with a negative conclusion. The conclusion was that the project should be finalized in the Cabinet of Ministers. In general, interesting developments are taking place today. We have on the agenda a draft State Budget Act submitted by the Government, the Head of the Committee of the Group reports to us comments and proposals for which we should have voted tomorrow, and today we are served with two parcels of paper. Even in school today, students are not given that much. I mean, we have to learn by tomorrow. But a preliminary introduction, I look everywhere: "refused, rejected," and I vote. You know, it's probably a practice that needs to be excluded from our work. With regard to the Committee's conclusions, if you please, a few words. The proposed main conclusion on the Committee was that the proposed budget was not a development budget. In terms of funding for the majority, both social and economic programmes, the State budget for the following year does not provide full funding. The budget is not innovative. Thus, the President's message, as a negative phenomenon, noted the dispersion of investment budget resources. More than 180 public targeted programmes have been approved. The focus and concentration of resources in the proposed draft budget for such programmes was 231. This budget is not a social budget either. Indeed, the tax scheme in the Government's proposed law on taxation of citizens' income does not provide for a significant reduction in the pressure on the population, particularly its poorest. The retention of 165 bracelets per month of minimum wage would not solve the problem of bringing the average wage to 45-50 per cent of the total population in the President's message. This is quite contrary to the poverty-relief strategy that we have recently considered with you. And according to what was adopted today. It is very difficult to give a responsible assessment of the extent to which the proposed draft has been amended, on the hearing in the Hall. In order not to delay, I would like to conclude that we consider all the proposals, the remark very carefully to consider working with the Government, with the budgetary committee, with the committees of others and all the people's deputies more responsibly to approach the budget process so that we are not ashamed to look our voters in the eye. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u136	People's MP Verni Dubov. Please prepare for the People's Deputy Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At the beginning of the speech, I would like to invite all of you to say the words of admiration and thanks to all the members of the budget committee who really showed us all the deputies an example of the proper performance of the day - to - day duties that worked late, and some members even 24 hours a day. If all of us -- all the committees -- were working, there'd probably be hope for the better. At times, the committee may not even gather a quorum. Ukraine's Draft Law "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2003" has been drafted in accordance with article 37 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and with a letter from the President of Ukraine "European Choice". The positive thing about the project is that when planning for next year's expenditure, it's provided at a sufficient level of social spending. In particular, account has been taken of the implementation of the minimum wage, the increase in pension costs for military personnel and members of the internal affairs authorities, the increase in the costs of progressive compensation for lost cash savings, and a list of protected articles on public budget expenditure. Although not all is done, this is the way to go. However, the bill contains a number of major shortcomings. The rules of article 54 concerning the granting of the Cabinet of Ministers the right to decide on the gradual replacement of benefits and compensation to citizens for targeted financial assistance run counter to article 92, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Constitution, which defines the basis for social protection of citizens only by law. Also, the provisions of article 56 of the draft on the suspension of existing legislation, which provided for benefits, guarantees and compensation to individual citizens, run counter to article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which prevents the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms from being narrowed by the adoption of new laws or amendments to existing laws. It raises doubts as to the situation of article 30, the position of the moratorium on international organizations and the accession to international conditions, and the situation of article 33, according to which State-injured funds from the State budget should be collected in accordance with the established law from persons who are responsible for the damage to the State budget. Dear colleagues! In this room, charges are made almost daily at the address of law enforcement and judicial officials. Someone was beaten, and someone was wrongly called to account. What have we done to improve the conditions of those working in these law enforcement agencies? Who comes to work there? Why is there a great outflow of truly literate, honest, decent workers? Where do they go to work? Why are we not interested? If we want to be met with a smile by a district official, to be assisted by a DAI employee, and if the investigator, the central figure of these organs, is really a competent, qualified lawyer, we need to listen to their needs. The committee even though some proposals and militias have been made, but that's not enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u138	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u139	The law enforcement authorities are not comfortable standing around with their hands stretched out and taking taxes from nongovernmental organizations. I urge you to remember this when we vote. The Committee and the European Choice Group believe that the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act can be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u140	Please, National Deputy Gurov, Industrial Policy Committee. To prepare for the people's representative of Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, Vadim Gurov, Krivbass, People's Landing. You know, this is what happens when men talk. You think the Minister of Finance will become his own man, not that he's his own, but I think he's almost his own man. Igor Olegovich, look, the flagman of the Austal Metalworks, I'm looking at the biography of the spiller, those, those, those. I think he's gonna pick up that scrap metal. And I've forgotten that there's such a saying that the main thing is to beat our friends, we'll always win our enemies! And with professional knowledge, he started cutting metal! Because he doesn't have an order. When he was Mityukov, he didn't know about metallurgy, so he did something. Yeah? And he privatized the law that he knows metal, even though he was only a spiller, it's not the biggest profession we have. So, Igor Olegovich, I do hope you will increase your potential in this matter. What am I trying to say? Metallurgy, metallurgy is the industry you can't play with. We've already played coal. It's okay, isn't it? Now you're looking at the Krivbass grant, you've got to figure it out! That's more flattering than Donbass! They're taking 80 million. To other areas that are even weaker. So what are you doing? Here we go. The Industrial Policy Committee held four retreats, four! Krivbass, Donbass, Zaporozhye, and when our head, Ehanurov, went up a hundred yards to the copier and looked at Krivbass in the incision, on the one hand, greatness, and on the other, moonland. You cannot leave the earth torn apart like that. What do we take from her? There must be a restructuring, a cultivation of the land. What are you doing? 15 million last year was given, and only 4 million were allocated, and we say we have 95 percent of the budget. I wonder, what kind of illiterate are we? This year, another 15 million. If you start loading up to some limit, she'll hold out, and then, Igor Olegovich, she'll just "breathe" and that's it. So question one: metalsmiths, look what you're doing: you've only given 400 grand to science, to develop the latest technology, 2.5 million. And we're already behind, of course, just don't tell anyone, almost forever, right? So what do we think of taking from this cow that always gave good milk? So you can't live like this. On the one hand, we boast that we have a bracelet as iron as steel. It's like steel, it's like a bracelet. That's what we need, an exportable industry, and we have an unwavering bracelet. That's why I'm asking you, Igor Olegovich, to see if you're a scrapbooker, but the money you're taking in Krivbass, 75 million, is on your conscience. And help. We are, after all, metallurgy, hoping for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u142	National Deputy Samoilik, get ready for Onischuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, statements of economic growth are clearly reflected in our draft budget. We see how our economy is actually growing. I just want to ask you a few questions, because in three minutes, of course, it's impossible to raise all the questions. The first question, I think, is socially strategic, is the question of building housing for young families, which is the only possibility for an average young family to buy housing in a long-term loan. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, all the parties and majors said that the problem needed to be solved. And you, when you were visiting the Herson area the day before, you said twice that when your block wins, you would 10 times increase funding to solve this important problem. You don't need 10 times, Vladimir Mikhailovich, why am I especially addressing you? It's a social strategic issue. Let's do what the program says, which was adopted and developed by the Cabinet of Ministers, 100 million dollars to solve this problem, although of course it's not possible to solve it. We've accepted the program, I agree with Zibank that 100 million will be predicted annually, and in the budget, Igor Olegovich, they've just killed 58 million dollars. Well, I added a little profile committee, but let's at least get to the level last year. I'm asking you very much, this is a matter to be decided. I don't understand the logic of action when a decision is made, something is made, and the next document is crossed out. The following is the tourism sector. I think we've had enough of these holes at the expense of selling, privatizing and so forth, but we have a field of how to fill the budget. I'll just give you one example. The state-owned Dnipro Hotel in Kiev has budgeted almost 30 million dollars over the past three years. And we have a lot of these businesses, but we need a little support in this area. Support for advertising so that Ukraine is not known for its mafias, not for its level of corruption, but for its historical monuments, and so on. Well, we have to deal with this at the end of the day. Or another question. The president decrees that the State Tourism Administration will now know the problems of the resort sector. There's no change in the government budget. The building, a historical monument located by the State Tourism Administration, is being destroyed. We're asking for 300,000 dollars, because the building that's in the front row has already collapsed with tragic consequences. Zero again, nothing at all. Finally, the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes a decision to consider the status of the rehabilitation of children with kidney disease, orphans, half orphans, people with disabilities, and decides to budget for the recovery of this category of children each year. Absolute zero. So I still think we're going to send our impressions and questions from the committee to the budget committee. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have to put an end to this practice when in a year, we take such fine decisions, programs, laws, we get to the budget, zero. That's how we get economic growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u144	National MP Onischuk of the Committee on Legal Policy. And after him, it's gone. And people will take the next step.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u145	Dear colleague! Dear Head! Naturally, when the budget is being discussed, I think I'm the new National MP, but those who are present in the Hall know that there has never been a situation where the Hall was satisfied with the draft budget. This is the nature of the relationship between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the cost when it is always lacking. It is also natural that today those who have spoken, representing the interests of individual committees, which in any case stand up for the spheres of the economy or the social sphere, talk about the problems of these spheres. But there is one phenomenon along with that, which I think is not just a sectoral one, but a national one. I mean the issue of judicial reform. That's where you all are: both you and your children and your grandchildren, your friends are going to the courts, because that's where we're protecting our violated rights, and that's where we want to get them. help and feel worthy and worthy. At the same time, despite the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted such a defining document last year, which is called the Court of Justice Act, but all of our desires to see Ukrainian law and, in particular, the judicial system of civilised and developed are somewhat inconsistent, I say so softly, something disagrees with seeing the financing of this system in a draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because it's not just a branch, it's a separate branch of power, it's obviously the same as we are in the sense that we're doing legislative functions, and the judicial system is exercising judicial authority in Ukraine. What's more, I want to remind you that recently, and you're obviously aware of this, is the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers, which, in order to implement our adopted Law on the Court of Justice with you, introduces new judicial institutions from the beginning of the following year, such as the Court of Appeal, the Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court. I have to tell you that the graph that we've always financed judicial reform, namely, judicial reform, values these three new courts in just 20 million dollars. This is because the minimum need to maintain the equipment of all courts, wages, and organizations is 100 million dollars. I'm not talking about funding the local courts. You know that the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is now the state court administration, whose representatives are here, designed a program to show the local courts, not the Kiev, the Kiev, the glory of God, even less in the available conditions, and the rural, especially the district rural courts of the district population from the lower condition they are in. Unfortunately, we looked at the funding of the local courts, the courts of general jurisdiction, which remained at the level of last year. This means that no capital repairs, no purchase of new facilities for these courts, unfortunately, cannot be done. So I call on my fellow national MPs to address this problem as not a sectoral issue, it's a matter of the face of Ukrainian democracy and of Ukrainian society. Therefore, I hope that in the following draft legislation, in the first reading, we will, indeed, be more attentive as Parliament to the financing of this issue. And I am also counting on full support for this issue of the Ukrainian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's statements have been completed. Out of procedure, please, National Deputy Cherniak. And point out to the board of deputies who signed up for the presentation in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to this rostrum to emphasize. And I think that's a question and conceptual, methodological and procedural. The main problem in the budget process is the mobilization of funds -- budget filling. In this regard, the solution to the problem of malnutrition is crucial to the budgetary process. And I'm surprised why we don't give this problem the meaning that it has. We're in this room every year -- and I'll never do it again! - we're cheating on the wetlands. Undernourished women are constantly growing in taxes. Now it's 12 billion dollars. What kind of budget process can be carried out with such a lack of funds? It's with all the deceivings we've had! 60 percent is a lowlife in energy. In particular, oil refineries do not pay for excise duties. 20 percent of the gas system's revenues are not budgeted. If we don't solve the energy issue, the fundraising is there. If we don't solve the issue of understocking, we're not going to have a budget process. And I'm actually surprised why the government doesn't take extraordinary measures to solve the problem of malnutrition. What the government does, besides its main task, is to fill the budget. Next. Most businesses in Ukraine hide their profits. Businesses don't show profits. How can we take taxes on profits when the issue is not resolved. And it's a state-owned enterprise! Once again, the government does nothing to ensure that businesses show profits and that taxes work for profit. VAT. They made it so much that it destroys the budget. He's ruining our economy! Both the government and the Supreme Council are to blame! Finally. We say we can't raise funds from privatization. We know very well with you that many enterprises are privatized outside the privatization process and therefore there is no budgeting. This happens through artificial bankruptcy, usually at no cost. That is, there are many sources of budget fulfillment that are obliged to mobilize the government and the Supreme Council. I have the impression that we are not giving the question the meaning that it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our colleague Cherniak has given a tone to the discussion by the national MPs. The word is given by the national MP, Frost Anatoly, a faction of Communists. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u149	Communist faction, 83 constituency, Zaporez. Dear colleagues! Clearly, the budget is the main government document that defines the rules of the game for a year. But when you analyze the implementation of the budget, for example, in 2002, you conclude that the budget is assumed to be for a branch, and the state budget itself is implemented entirely under different laws. So after meeting with the leaders in the regions, after discussing the formation of regional budgets for 2003, you conclude that this position is wrong and that the rules of the game need to be changed. We have to be responsible for the budget failure last year. Given the problems of the regions, we need to make some changes to the laws, not in haste. And most of all, there are many complaints about the Budget Code, which everyone who was in that calling remembers, has been under some pressure in this room and on the Ur. Thus, two articles that need to be amended are immediately: Article 73 (2) and Article 85 (2), which prohibit the granting of loans from one budget to another and the financing of budgetary institutions from different budgets. Next. Article 78, paragraph 8, of the Budget Code provides for the possibility of reviewing budget expenditure by more than 15 per cent of three blocks and exceeding income. The regions are proposing to apply the proportionality ratio here, which, on the one hand, will stimulate economic development, and on the other hand, will allow local authorities to at least apply budget holes. Next. It is forbidden for local self-government authorities to create non-budgetary funds. This is also perceived as negative. The centralized formulas of all budgets and even articles are in conflict with the principle of social justice. Such approaches do not allow differences in economic potentials and regional performance to be taken into account. And the main thing is that the role of the local government is zero, because the result is that the roots of economic problems are outside their economic sphere. I would like to say separately that the budgeted budget for the Zaporozhye region for 2003 is completely unsatisfying. Estimated expenditure on health care, education, and culture, despite an increase of almost 39 percent in funding for the 2003 budget. But they do not fit the reality at all, and they will only be enough to pay the wages and so on with great powers. We need another 107.3 million to provide funding for protected articles of expenditure. That's right. I believe that the adoption of the budget needs to be carried out in terms of spending on education, health, social protection, culture and physical culture in accordance with existing legislation, particularly in part of spending standards. And to that end, with the aim of compensating the losses that our Zaporezka region is suffering, a fairer approach will allow Zaporezka to take second place in income, to take second place in per capita expenditure. Therefore, I propose that 50 percent of the difference between income and per capita expenditure be left in local budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u150	People's MP Nadrag. Get ready for Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, judging from the report that we have heard from the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to make my proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers and to our Committee, respectively. Two positions. By no means trying to cover the entire situation, I would still like to stop. First. Dear colleagues, today at 600 million It is proposed that the possession of coal miners be reduced. It's not the subject you can talk about. I understand that today I can be accused of protecting some regional interests, but in the Lugansk region, Donetsk, there are a number of other coals in the key industry, and we can think about anything, but if the coal industry is, let's say, as appropriate, to whine, the whole economy will be sneezing. And in these regions, I would like to emphasize those who propose to cut back, just to go and see: in Stahanov, in Red Luce and in a number of other cities, where the coal sector, I stress, is basic, there are repairs, transport facilities, machinery and socio-sculptures all around this industry. From here, we ask, not whether or not there will be a mine, but whether whole cities and areas exist, whole areas. Based on this logic, I can only say one thing: I disagree, and I never agree that the ownership of the coal industry is not increasing, but is shrinking. And one more moment. To date, you're offering to make $2.2 billion, my dear. Next moment. There is some confusion as to how money will be shared, which is allocated to the public budget and to the public authorities, respectively. We have the State Committee for the Family and Youth. It was proposed to provide 1.8, the budget committee offered 4.5 million bracelets. Savings, I don't mind, I agree, we need to see where the money is going. But the second question is equally important: we have in the budget, in violation of the budget code, article 87, in violation of the Constitutional Court's decision, in a separate line, the financing of the OICMO - Ukrainian National Committee of Youth Organizations. And what are we talking about today? That we do not add to the programmes for the recovery of children, to the youth programmes that the Supreme Council has adopted, among other things. Against this background, we are beginning to produce social organizations that are now bringing together 70 of the 104 registered youth organizations. We've already begun to finance politics in the open, as far as I can see. I therefore consider two things from this position, one: we must, in the context of the sums that we can afford to give to our families and young people, first of all, to centralize them, because, once again, it will go to the rehabilitation of children, it will go to youth events. And secondly, I am deeply convinced that today, in the current situation, we do not have the right to finance any public organization from the State budget, in particular the UNCMO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u152	There's no wine, is there? People's deputy Petrenko, please prepare for the performance, Kravchenka. Is Petrenka gone? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u153	Respectable people's deputies, respected voters, declared the Government's 2003 budget as a development budget, as a social protection budget for the population, are, to say the least, lies and lies of taxpayers. Yes, and how else can it be, when the majority of the coves and factories are laid apart, the construction complex is not used for the appointment of a million hectares of land. The proposed draft budget for 2003 did not show any growth in the financing of industry, construction and agriculture. Therefore, in Ukraine's live economic potential, this provision is extremely poor and does not represent any promised recovery of production. Once again, instead of increasing social protection costs, the Government reduces the social spending of the general public budget by up to 537 million dollars. On the basis of the draft budget for 2003, the quality of life of the population in Ukraine as a whole will deteriorate and the poor will become 11 per cent more. There is a natural increase in tension in our country. The 2003 budget therefore increases the provision for the maintenance of force structures, law enforcement and fiscal bodies, while reducing social expenditure. And the draft budget provides for as many as 8.4 billion bracelets! That is, 717 million more than in the current budget. The President of Ukraine described the state of affairs in the housing sector as a threat to Ukraine's national security. And it really is. What is being done specifically to avoid this threat by the Government? The budget for the current year provides for 126 million dollars and only 2 million dollars. This is indeed a disaster for the future of our State. It is not true and approved by the Government that local budgets, the proportion of local budgets in the State budget, are increased. Well, for example, if you take the Suma area that I represent. That would require a minimum cost of 1 billion dollars and only half of the budget was provided for in the draft budget. And so, unfortunately, in every area. I took part in the consideration of the budget in the Government of Ukraine. In general, the draft budget proposed by the Government is a disgrace to Ukraine and will be a new disaster for citizens and an increase in poverty, unemployment and mortality. Come out. The faction of the Compartia of Ukraine has made specific proposals to fill the budget, but the whole point is that, under the current system of power, the people have nothing to expect from such a budget. That's why the All-Ukrainian Civil Protest "Arise, Ukraine!" must continue until the nation's full victory in our Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u154	National MP Kravchenko has the floor. Prepare the Masterpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u155	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, all speakers today have clearly referred to the budget as a document that inhibits economic growth as a document that rejects our country into the distant abyss of poverty. And all of us today have been unanimous in this. It is only about how we will vote on this document. And we're going to vote the exact opposite: the left side is going to say that we can't accept this budget, and the right one, the Presidential one, is going to say, "Well, we have to have any document." Here's Leonidas Makarovich Kravczuk saying, "We have what we have." And we're going to have what we have. But I was most impressed today by the statement by the chair of the budget committee, the idea of financing the coal industry. Think of it, dear colleagues, as it was said: Yes, the budgetary committee, like the Government, understands that the coal industry must be financed as the basis, the basic sector of the economy. However, it cannot finance it for one reason that money is being diverted along the way. On this basis alone today, 2.2 billion have been invested because this money does not reach the mines and is being disrupted by corrupt and other structures, criminal structures along the way. But that's absurd. You see, the Supreme Council Hall has already frankly stated that the State is unable to deal with corruption, with the spread of public money from the budget that goes to the mines. Today, respected colleagues in the Donetsk region alone are in the stage of the so-called sanctions. This suggests that the mines will be closed and satellite cities in Chattersk, Tarez, which are almost extinct today. There's only one mine out of 14 mines working today. That is why I am not even asking Igor Olegovic today to increase the appropriation. Let's finally move on from words to deeds. We have adopted the Corner of Ukraine programme, which contains 6 billion. After all, the Prime Minister admitted on television yesterday that the coal sector must be financed. What's easier to finance today is to get the mine to a technically normal level than to close it. We have proved this, and we have adopted a Supreme Council regulation stating that the policies of the Cabinet of Ministers in the coal sector threaten the national security of Ukraine. So let's just keep our words together so that we don't have double standards when we raise some issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u156	Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, prepare Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u157	Thank you. Honourable People's Deputies, Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Konotapian constituency, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I was preparing for this talk, and again I wanted to speak so that people could hear you and say something smart. That's what I want to tell you. If I was asked to form a budget and they said, "That's what you've been asked to do, and how you'd see that you're doing there, you wouldn't be critical, you'd be able to do it." That's the first and most important thing I've ever understood. Because I'm asked to do this budget, and there's some responsibility behind this budget: financing the social sphere, people's lives, pensions, including the minimum wage, that's all I have to do in this budget. And then to the needs that the state has listed today, what it needs for our people, it has to make up the income part of the budget, it has to divide the income part, and it has to share the income part, and it has to say: that's how much money we need, and then we have to put the problem where we take the money. And from this rostrum in these performances, we should discuss where to take the money so that we can provide the minimum wage today. We can't make it 270 bucks, let's leave it as it is, but then let's cut the utility bill, lower the price of bread, make it a few copies, cut the fare in the tram, the tickets, and let's keep the salary. For example, this way you can go. I'm worried, for example, about another question. Well, it's a simple thing, and the president says today, Well, who's to blame for the situation in Ukraine? Who's to blame?" And I would say to him, "I blame all your subordinate services today, starting with district and local administrations." That's the only reason I want to say it. It is time for the governor’s appointment in Sumskia to hold the entire Sumskia area in such a situation. They're guilty, for that reason, of even being so simple: the budget today includes 500 million citizens' returns, out of 132 billion 500 million people involved. To organize a simple work of issuing these 50 bracelets and also unpromising. Who can't, the question is, Vanya, Petya. Who are you, why are you undermining our President's authority today? You can't go to the Communist faction, they'll do it right, they won't do it, they won't do it, they'll do it today. Maybe there's one in your frame, let them do it. I want to ask you a few more questions. I'm worried about the budget. Sales of businesses were included in the income section of the budget. In my district, the Everything factory. He is almost bankrupt, but he is heavily indebted to his employees, not included in the list of objects to be privatized. It is already in the budget to privatize, it is already for sale, it already has 185 million dollars to go to the income section of the budget today, and there is no list of objects to privatize it. So what is it? Shame, yeah. I mean, honourable voters and honourable national MPs, today's budget adoption system is just like they say, "not as much love as that echo." You know: "By the oak tree, the kid likes the soybeans." So this is a lot of noise, and the result is going to be zero. If this State Budget is not resolved by responsible people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u158	Lechenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich. Next Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u159	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Hennaday Andryovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Annual consideration of the state budget becomes an annual burden around the issue. For the common people, there is no such thing as trade. It seems to me that the government. The Presidential Administration wants to outwit Parliament and, in sum, the people of Ukraine. How is it that the budget committee has already found 8 billion dollars? What, they're rolling on the road? So can we all do another good search and find another billion 10 there? Everybody knows the axiom: "For there to be money in the budget, we need production to work." In my view, the executive does not want to do so, for both industry and agriculture are slowing down. The government's budget is "touchy" where you don't throw it, there's a wedge. How are free education and medicine strengthened, for example? The director of the village school spends the summer walking around the village and starting with a can of paint. What's the teacher's salary? Miserable. Where is the support of agriculture? There's a hole in here at all. What about the social sphere in the country? What about the highways? In Montenegro, for example, there is only one normal road of President Kyiv-Cheikino, the rest, especially among the villages, is one pit. What about culture? The village of the cradle of national culture, and there, in fact, sparrows fly and mice run and fall apart. What about social issues? But the repressive apparatus of money is enough to protect corrupt power. Who asked people if they wanted to replace the aids with an address aid? Here in the hall, by the way, one of the leaders of the trade unions was just saving for the relief. What do ordinary people say? They request that we not allow the relief aid to be replaced. I'll just give you two extracts from the letters that I'll pass on to the presidency. "The Ripkin district council of veterans. As members of the congregations of Ripkini’s veteran assets, we are very concerned that in the interview of some leaders, the State has increasingly announced its intentions to eliminate all benefits and guarantee their social protection, to replace them with what is called targeted aid. Veterans know very well what an address aid is, compensation for the replacement of unused routes in the sanatorium, supplementation for black people to eat, and so forth. The veterans of the region are strongly protesting the elimination or replacement of the benefits for what is called address aid." And another appeal by veterans of war, army and labor, veterans of Afghanistan, Chernobyl, pensioners of the village of Honcharov in Montenegro. "Dear MPs! You are invited to adopt a budget law for 2003. We are familiar with the basic provisions, but - here are a number of proposals - and we suggest that we do not vote in favour of the introduction of targeted material aid, as this is the death of an older generation.” As a result, I also believe that the draft state budget, even with the proposals put forward by the budgetary committee, needs substantial work, and then we can talk about its adoption. Thank you for your attention, and I'll pass on these documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u160	Thank you. Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich, next to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u161	Kalinczuk, Clothing, Ukrainian Agrarian faction. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! Dear members of the government! I would like to point out that the budget committee has taken into account, although not fully, the proposals and comments made by the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations to the draft Budget submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. New articles have emerged on the allocation of funds for fixed grain prices, for the purchase of agricultural lysing techniques, a slight increase in allocations compared with the government’s proposals for repayment of credit rates. At the same time, however, the disposal of funds for the radical improvement of land, the holding of state exhibitions in the APC. I would particularly like to focus on the financing and development of urban farming in rural areas. This is the creation of living conditions for peasants. You've all come almost out of the village and you know what they're lined up with in this respect. So on the one hand, it looks like funding has been increased by 211 million. for the APC at the level of last year. On the other hand, important areas of activity remain unfunded. The need for a law to stimulate rural machinery has not been taken into account. So I'm making a proposal to finalize the law to provide for the support of domestic machinery for the APC as a minimum of 125 million. That's right. And one more question. According to the results, the formula used by the Ministry of Finance to calculate transfers for local budgets is very imperfect. It may be a macro-level approach to calculating the law of large numbers, but if we go down to the district level and in the area in areas, there is usually an over-calculus of income, and there is no need to provide and repair budget institutions. As an example, the allocated transfers, including the budget of the seven areas that are part of my 144th Odessa constituency, are not more than 50 per cent, in some cases 70 per cent. And this situation, as you know, with transfers being made, will once again result in debt on pay to teachers and doctors, as well as payment for electricity, gas and water supply and other urgent economic needs. And the last. Capitalization. The budget committee takes into account the proposal to provide for a draft budget for the allocation of capital funds for the construction of state - owned objects. We would like to see resources made available from these funds to compensate agricultural enterprises for the cost of building social facilities in the countryside. This is a direct duty of the State. It is absolutely necessary to allocate funds to complete the construction of the buildings built this year, at the expense of state-owned central investment, according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as an increase in expenditure, the granting of state-owned mortgage loans for the construction of a village based on the Own House program, from 20 million to 50 million dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u162	Thank you, sit down, please. Karmazin Yuri Anatolyevich
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Hennaday Andriyovich! We listened to the suggestions today, you heard that when you hear the head of the budget committee, which certainly needs to be given due time to work until Sunday night! People work, they work. With Dusty’s arrival there, the situation changed dramatically. But they found 4 billion extras before what Minfine actually hid. But we heard from this rostrum of Valentina Konstantinovich Simonek, he found over 8 billion unaccounted for. Where are the billions? Let's do it anyway, I have a proposal for the budget committee to take them into account immediately. And he invited Simonek to his meeting and took the transcript. I propose for the Supreme Council, in particular, that priorities and constitutional bodies be defined, that they be clearly recorded, as is now the case, by the budgetary committee, which should be financed, not by the administration of matters, but by the fund manager, which should be in the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council, because the legal person's right is related to the Apparatus. The Ministry of Defense has the money today just so that soldiers don't starve to death, and the money to upgrade their weapons is not, in fact, foreseen. These costs need to be predicted, and I think they should be increased by at least 50 percent. On what account? It's the billions we've been talking about. That's what I'm talking about. I propose to reduce the funding of the State Security Authority by at least 50 percent, and to allocate the funds in equal shares to the financing of foreign troops, the Ministry of Defence and the renewal of arms. Just think: 153 cars are in the Department of State Protection. Why? What is it? Who's to transport? Financing of the State Tax Administration. It is not necessary to increase, Peter Alexiyovich, but to reduce, and only so to influence the quality and number of tests, only because of this can it be done. What about education? Today, many times has been said. We clearly have a stated basic priority principle: to cut costs by 50 percent for all public authorities, including the Supreme Council, and the funds allocated to finance education, health care facilities, and weapons upgrades. And now for the judiciary. It's today -- we've seen it before the Shevchenkov Court of Kiev yesterday -- we see it all the time in the Kyiv Court of Appeal -- it's in the squad today. But it's not just because it's spineless, and it's here, it's these questions, it's also because it's not properly financed. That's why I'd ask you. First: increase the costs of forensic expertise. We've created a court administration, not giving up any money, no room, no car, nothing, not even a car and a typewriter. And I'm proposing to cut the cost of an army like, let's say, an internal army. Yesterday we saw 30 men guarding one man, 30 men in masks, well - armed, and so on. It was, we saw Grigorisin on the case. Even at the request of 30 national deputies, Judge Marchuk did not give up the mask. People are good, people we finance are bandits! We know who they are in masks! Take the masks off the people, let the people show their faces. Animals' faces. Let the people see. There's a budget to be made: how much for one judge in the state. You can't say that there's much more to the Constitutional Court than there are. We all have to. But we have to anticipate judicial reform and predict there, bet, then it will be independent and independent of the President's office. And finally, I'm done. And finally about. Isn't it wise that the State Administration, Mr. Litwin here, said you shouldn't touch the Dusu. Well, four times as much you've invested in funding the DSS as in the Ministry of Culture. Well, someone's got a conscience in the Ministry of Finance. Yes, you do realize that you live in a country in Ukraine, don't you? Your soul is more important to you! You're funding Artec, and there's a $300 trip. What kind of budget funding can be?’
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u164	Yuri Anatolyevich, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u165	I'm done. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. One minute and I'm done because I understand everyone wants to say. Hennady Andriyovich, believe me, it hurt a lot. I proposed and I propose. Ladies and gentlemen, let's adopt the Law on the Office of the President of Ukraine, advisory, advisory and other auxiliary bodies. Let's help the President, let's say you have 200 people, like in Kravczuk's time, when there weren't many different institutions and offices. There will be 200 people, not more than 1,000 today. And then there won't be any major administrations, it'll all be described as a draft law that we've drafted. So let us, and there will be sources to give both to the judiciary, and to education, and to the Ministry of Culture. And you're going to see for yourself, and you're going to say, yes, indeed, we have these sources. Well, let's take a look and do it ourselves. When a country is in trouble, the Supreme Council should also use it. Thank you and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for discussion of the draft State Budget Act is over. There are five national MPs left, but I don't think anyone's insisting on this. So let us give the floor to the representative of Kabmin to the Finance Minister Juško Igor Olegovich. Please, how many minutes do you need? Don't hear it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u167	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! Clearly, each budget process each year has its own features, has its own benefits, has its own problems. If I'm asked today, what can be understood as to how the budget process is going on in the current year, I've taken what we have in the budget code to the positives, no doubt. The budget code, as a document, as a law that is very clear in many ways and in many ways regulates both our actions and our capabilities. I'm in trouble. I'd probably say one thing right now, we still need to learn how to regulate our actions in accordance with the Budget Code. I'm not going to stop at this in more detail right now, but literally a few examples of how we could move forward more effectively, I'd like to emphasize. First. Of course, today's discussion in the session room is not a simple situation, because it's already been talked about today, I'm saying it's not in terms of criticism, but we actually didn't have the opportunity, I have, first of all, the people's deputies, and the government, to get to know the materials that were provided by the budget committee. I have no special talk, only the comments I received during the report and the presentations. Despite the fact that, in fact, according to the Budget Code, this is strictly stipulated, two days before the discussion in the session room, the materials should be in the hands of both the national deputies and all those involved. I absolutely agree with those people's deputies who, in my opinion, were very constructive about, as it were, macro-stepping towards. in the draft budget for the first reading. What's that supposed to mean? First, it's too early to talk about expenses when you and I haven't finally decided what we have on the income line. We haven't decided with you what kind of final resource we have. That's the first one. Secondly, I totally agree with the thesis that 8 billion dollars are not rolling on the road and you can't find another 10 or 1 or 2 on the road, depending on what we want. We have to approach very carefully, analyze the sources from which the income of the State Budget is increasing. I can repeat once again that I do not have the ability to analyze perfectly, but what I heard today. Well first of all, it's an increase or transfer of income from privatization to the General Fund, with an increase of 2.2 billion at the same time. Well, I don't know if there's even any point in commenting on that. The best example of how this works is in 2002. You can argue pretty convincingly that stock markets in Europe, in the United States now not what's in a better position, are at the edge of the critical position of investor confidence in corporate securities. It's a completely professional idea, there's no politics here. Counting that the Ukrainian market will be more attractive in the context of a mounting stock crisis in developed markets -- there's no basis for that. And to give attractive investment objects such as Telekom za, I apologize, 2 cents at a time when Deutschelec’s official West Press stock cost dropped from $400 billion to about 40 dollars this year. What will be the dynamics of the Squirrel? Dear friends! Well, that's a very well-known thing. In addition, the transfer of income from privatization to the General Fund. We have been through this for more than a year. This is done by the accounting artificial surplus of the general fund. I emphasize, accounting, because there's no economic value in this, but these things are known. There are, in my opinion, more dangerous things, because they have some novelty. I mean, we've talked long enough about the need to review approaches to the formation of a special state budget fund. At the same time, we have an increase in the special fund in the supply of about 1.7 billion, if I'm not mistaken, so to speak in the report. Of these, almost one and a half billion are revenues or expenditures for financing the road economy. Dear friends, according to Ukrainian legislation, this is the law on sources of financing for the road economy, the only source or main source is the proceeds of excise duties paid from the implementation of oil, oil products and the like. If we're carrying these revenue because the amount of revenue is known, it's about 2.5-2. 7 billion dollars, or 2.5 billion dollars. If we're transferring 100 percent of this funding to a special fund, that means that automatically, I emphasize, we automatically reduce the revenue from the corresponding excises to the general state budget fund. At the same time, I would like to point out that part of article 40 of the Second Code of Budget completely regulates similar actions. The reduction in government budget revenues should determine the sources of compensation for loss of income or the type and extent of expenditure to be reduced accordingly. On the other hand, we have an increase in expenditure on the general fund when the income portion is reduced due to its shift to the special fund. I think this trend is extremely dangerous, and experts have to look very carefully at such facts. I'm saying once again, it's not quite clear what the position is in terms of financing the state budget, I mean the section of funding, because so far there is no supplement in those materials that I received personally in the morning. I hope it is, it's given to the national MPs, but under this chapter I can't say anything yet. You can, of course, stop at income from certain types of taxes, you can talk about VAT, where, in fact, we have a waiver of late debt, which was, among other things, confirmed by the Budget Resolution, which was confirmed during the submission of the draft State Budget Act. The administrative or excise matters that are administered during production and not during consumption may be discussed. As a result, consumption calculations for excise duties on consumption statistics are unfounded. And among other things, the corresponding rule of the Budget Code, I have a few more minutes, so I can read that "no proposals are allowed to be made for changes in the forecast of tax revenue, except in cases where, according to the Supreme Council Committee on Budget, Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, they have been found to be inaccurate in their calculations." Documents to confirm that these three important authorities had found an understanding of these issues, I did not see. I feel that the distinguished national MPs have not seen it either. Dear friends, I don't want to criticize either the proposals or the budget. Just standing on this rostrum during the presentation of the budget, during the consideration of the Budget Resolution, with great respect for the main legislative body, I have made it absolutely clear, and frankly, that we have almost 10 billion dollars of resources of expenditure that are already being adopted today, either by legislation or by the government, or by the relevant presidential decrees that are not being strengthened by the relevant resource today. Of course, it's in terms of making a budget that meets the needs of both the industry and the social and investment ambitions and that kind of thing, that we realize that's impossible. I'd very much like us all to come back together from the way we're trying to go now, as it were, looking for money, to the path of adopting appropriate legislation, so that this money can safely come into the budget. And another to complete is the offer. It's also in line with the budget code, and this proposal has already been made in the hall today, and I just want to repeat it. Of course, the proposals made by the Committee on Budgets are not unambiguous in terms of acceptance by different factions, groups, and even from a professional point of view. Therefore, in order not to block the budgetary process, so that we can move forward, there is a proposal tomorrow under the Budget Code to follow the texts that have been changed at the level of the proposals and to follow the proposals made by the Committee on Budgets. In addition, in closing my speech for 15 seconds, I would like to go back to the text of the Supreme Council ruling, which is proposed by the profile committee, which is the second paragraph, which reads: "The budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council are considered to be part of the draft law on the State Budget for 2003. Dear friends, I understand that this must be a technical error, because article 42 of the Budget Code, which is called the "Preparation of the draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine for Second Reading", states the following: "After the adoption of the draft law on the State Budget for First Reading," the Cabinet of Ministers prepares the two-week deadline, no later than that. another, comparable table for taking into account proposals, observations or motivated explanations of unaccounted for proposals." So the procedure is perfectly clear in the Committee on Budgets and there's no reason to think that it's already a body of law. I'd just like that warning to come out in the hall today. Thank you for your attention, thank you for your critical remarks, thank you for your warm words. I have no doubt that we will find an understanding in order to make a balanced, balanced budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u168	Thank you. Dearly beloved, he requests a minute to speak with the head of the State Judicial Administration of Karaban Volodymyr Yakovic. One minute. Very tight.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u169	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Court of Justice Act, the Presidential Decree of 29 August of this year established the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration, which is responsible for the organization of the activities of judges of all levels except the Supreme Court and the Supreme Chamber of Commerce. I believe that, according to paragraph 20 of the final and transitional provisions of this law, since 1 January 2003, the National Court of Justice has acquired the rights of the full supervisor of the funds allocated for the maintenance of the courts. In accordance with the ruling of the Ukrainian Council of Judges, I am taking part in the discussion of the draft State Budget Act. But given the limited space of time for the performance, I'm going to say the most topical. In my view, at least this is a strange phenomenon when Ukraine’s 2003 State Budget Act. In 2002, the State Budget Act provided for 90 million dollars when the law on the judiciary had not yet been passed. Now that there's real reform. We need to reform the courts, the judicial system, and only 21 million dollars are offered for these purposes. There is a logical question: at what cost does the Court of Appeal, Cassation and Higher Administrative Courts, as well as the Academy of Judges, which was created by the President of Ukraine two years ago, but does not function without funds. In fact, in recent years there has been neither education nor an increase in the qualifications of the judiciary, which is one of the reasons for the relatively low level of justice. Today, there are 827 courts in Ukraine, some 300 of which are located in emergency facilities, as evidenced by the closure of the Vinicka Rural Court by appropriate services due to unsanitary conditions of work. The rest of the courts in the vast majority exercise justice in unsuited facilities, such as the Kyiv Court of Appeal and the Kyiv District Court of Appeal, which are located in the well-known Vladimirskiy district. With a total of about 700 people, 171 judges, the area is only 2 and a half thousand feet [2 and a half thousand m], with a minimum requirement of 12,000 to 15,000 meters. Honorable national deputies, the duty of the State to provide funding and adequate conditions for the functioning of the courts and the activities of the judge. We cannot limit ourselves to creating proper conditions only to the superior and highest judicial authorities, whose needs, by the way, are almost complete. The local courts, which have 764, are a mirror of justice, an indicator of the State’s enforcement of constitutional guarantees before citizens. It is the local judges of the local courts who number 5,000 and a half thousand. And their decisions tend to remain final. Only 10 percent of the higher courts are prosecuted. So I would ask the Supreme Council to pay particular attention to the financing of local courts and appeals. I have to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u170	You don't have time anymore. How long does it take? We've got a 15th hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u171	I have to point out that the deterioration of the status of the courts translates the situation from the financial side to the political side. The problems of the courts, which result from inadequate financing of their activities, are becoming a problem for millions of people. And to the end. I ask you to support as much as possible the proposal of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and to recognize in the bill that is under discussion the priority and protection of financing the activities of the judiciary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u172	The word is given to Peter Alexiovich. A closing statement from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u173	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. I regret, of course, that the completion of the discussion of an extremely important, key financial document for the state takes place in an empty hall in a year. I have to say that. This is the level of interest that our respected colleagues have in calling for priorities, social protection, in the level of funding. This is a real indicator of the level of interest of committees, factions in budgetary consideration. That's the first one. The other one. Regrettably, many speakers do not understand the budget procedure when adopting its conclusions on the first reading of the budget committee. We had very serious criticisms, and they all applied without exception to the government's budget project. None of us, my dear colleagues, in the budget code, passed a draft decree rejecting the 2003 State Budget project and sending it back to the government. This means that all the political forces represented in the room at a certain time, during the presentation, approved the government's draft budget with their inaction. And today we are no longer considering a government project. This was to be done during the presentation. Today we are looking at the conclusions of the Budget Committee. And what do we hear? Dear colleagues, I don't want to call their names saying that the budget committee has reduced the level of funding for the coal sector. This is just direct misinformation, because as a result of the review by the Committee on Coal Finance, Ukraine has reached a record level of funding throughout its independence. This is the direct misinformation of the deputies. What do we hear next? Apparently, government officials first saw the document that was accepted by the budget committee. Allow me to disagree with you, because at least the Ministry of Finance has always been present at the conclusion of the Committee on Budgets. We've been working on the income part of the budget. I've got five minutes. I would ask that we have the opportunity to use all the rules. The budget committee worked on the income part of the budget for a week. And every penny, not a hundred million, not a billion, but every penny has its own detailed justification. I hope that the government has had the opportunity to study carefully in the working order and have had the opportunity to deny the conclusions of the budget committee. It wasn't, I insist, that my colleagues -- representatives of all the factions that enter the budget committee -- can confirm that. What we see next. We can see that, contrary to the Budget Code, contrary to the Ukrainian State Debt Act, privatization is being brought to a level of funding. The Budget Committee simply renewed the requirements of the Budget Code and the State Debt Act -- put it in the general state budget fund. But at the same time, appreciating some of the unrealities of privatization rates, by the way, we took it from the government's point of view, because the government's decision provides for the sale of oblenergos and telecoms. We also share the fact that in the current state of the stock market they cannot be sold. And that's why we didn't plan for expenses under these incomes. And that's the professional position of the Budget Committee. I don't want to stop at every single statement, I have very serious evidence of a professional, thorough, very balanced approach to the budget committee. But I wish we didn't have double standards. When we presented the budget, there were no objections. Today, when we have to make a political decision or we stop the budgetary process and hand over the right of manual budget management to the government, those political powers must take responsibility for it. Today, political power does not share the position of the budget committee, I would like to understand clearly what it is. Those incomes that are real, we've found, we've presented to the court, and let's determine whether they're real or not. We have the responsibility that they are absolutely real. These expenses, let's see what you don't agree with here. We're transferring $1 billion 800 million to local budgets, and there's pay, there's social costs. Don't you agree with that? Let's film it if it's the will of the Supreme Ra and. We're not increasing the funding of power structures today. Don't you agree? Make a decision. Today, we have increased to a record level of funding for the coal sector. Is that perceptive or unacceptable? As a result of the separate tax regime of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, a substantial improvement in the situation has a metallurgical sector that today brings the left-hand side of income, the arrival of foreign exchange revenues in Ukraine. There will be no distractions and no circulation costs. There is no problem with VAT return. You don't like it? Make a decision. I would simply like to have objective information, both by procedure and by the conclusion of the Committee of Budgets, and we have a real clear picture so that we do not lead political factions into fornication. It was from these positions that I, as head of the budget committee today, decided to convene a budget committee in which all factions and factions represented had enough time to determine the position of the budget committee. They still have time to learn their conclusions very carefully. In addition, I hope that the members of the committee will hand over the factions to their leaders because they are there not only as national MPs, but as factions. And for tomorrow, there's going to be a position that either we accept the conclusions of the budget committee, or we have a Dru version -- we're going to bring it back to the budget committee. Not to the government, dear colleagues. And on the budget committee, he worked three weeks a day, and he's already said his word. So I'm asking you to determine the factions tomorrow and ask you to support the money. I insist once again, not the government project, but the conclusions of the budget committee are our conclusions, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-16-m0.u174	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Dear colleagues! Consideration of the draft law on Ukraine’s State Budget for the following year is completed. We don't have much time to make decisions, but there is. And the request for everyone to work with the budget committee, and if there is a question, and the government to find out, and tomorrow it will have to be determined. And really, when it comes to rereading second reading, this committee should be preparing all its proposals, but we had time. Once again, I invite everyone to work hard. I'm calling this a closed meeting of the Supreme Council, but I want to remind the faction leaders of the 15th Committees that we're hearing from very important questions about education. Please ensure the participation of the people's deputies. Please.
