ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Have a seat, please. Turn on the Glad system. We'll log in. There are 350 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session open. Dear National Deputies! We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Let's move on to the State Budget project for 2003. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that it takes three hours to deal with this issue. In particular, it is suggested that a reporter and a coreporter be given up to 15 minutes and 15 minutes each for answers to questions. For factions from 40 minutes, from committees to one hour, for national MPs to 15 minutes. Then the final word and the decision-making. In view of the fact that the State Budget project is being presented today, rather than considering it in the first or second reading, I would ask, if possible, to shorten the time for discussion so that we can discuss a number of other important issues today. For the presentation of the draft budget, Igor Olegovich Jushko, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, gives the floor to the Minister of Finance. Please, Igor Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u2	Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! By the Cabinet of Ministers in terms and order established by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code, the draft State Budget Act 2003 was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council on September 14, 2003. The bill has been drafted following the programming documents of the President of Ukraine, the decisions of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, the main directions of budgetary policy for the following year and the proposals of the Supreme Council for them. The draft budget indicators are based on tax and budgetary legislation. In doing so, the budget project has been set up in a context where many systemic problems have arisen in the tax and budgetary sphere, such as: the need for tax reform, which entails a reduction in tax burdens and the elimination of numerous tax benefits; the need to increase the real income of the population while at the same time reforming the social and professional benefits system; the need to address the problem of tax and tax administration; the need to tighten the debt situation in connection with the peak burden of public debt payments in the next two years; the lack of structural reforms in the areas of the budgetary sector, which also leads to a reduction in the efficiency of budget spending; the need to pay back debt from VAT repayment and debt repayment from other social payments that have been accrued over the past ten years. At the same time, the draft budget has been developed and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council, a project of the State Economic and Social Development Programme for Ukraine for 2003, which can and must be considered together. It is generally accepted in world practice when the government is working on several options for the development of the economy for the next period according to budgetary legislation. These documents are processed in two scenarios: conservative and targeted. In line with article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on budgeting on the basis of current legislation, the government's budget estimates for 2003 were based on conservative forecast for the following year of nominal GDP of $247 billion, with a real increase of 4 per cent; a consumer price index of 7.7 per cent; and an average exchange rate of $5.57. The target scenario predicts a higher rate of economic growth, but is based on certain conditions. [[is meant to adopt changes to tax legislation, as well as to organise certain benefits]] Overall, the draft budget takes into account the real state of the economy and legislation. Of course, the draft document does not provide a solution to all problems, but we want to show problems and determine how to solve them both in the next year and in the future. The revenue of the 2003 draft consolidated budget, based on the indicated macro-indicators, revenue dynamics in the past and current years, current tax rates and so on, is projected at 62.6 billion dollars, or 25.3 percent of GDP. This level in comparative terms corresponds to the reallocation of GDP through a budget that has been drawn up in the current year and in the last few years. It should be borne in mind that the ratio of economic growth to budget income is influenced by the sectoral structure of GDP. For example, agriculture, which generates a significant increase in GDP, has virtually no impact on the increase in income from the budget as a result of the numerous benefits that have been introduced over the past few years and will continue to take effect in the coming year. [[30 per cent]] A number of new factors also have a significant impact on the reallocation of GDP through the budget, including the need to pay off outstanding VAT amounts. The government planned that it would be estimated to be between 800 million and 1 billion dollars next year. [[and I reported from this rostrum during the discussion of the Budget Resolution]] The abolition of customs congregations in connection with the adoption of the Customs Code will also have a negative impact on the incomes of the following year. The amount of the potential shortages is more than 0.5 billion dollars. All of these and some other factors reduce the actual possible share of GDP over the budget by at least 0.6 percent, and really probably by 1 percent. In addition, the relationship between increasing budget resources has had a negative impact on the volatility of excise duty rates in recent years. For 2003, there is also a substantial reduction in income from corporate income tax, which is explained by the decline in business profitability, the application of a consolidated payment of this tax. [[About 1.5 billion dollars]] This is an absolutely positive step forward from the point of view of, as it were, legitimate tax optimisation, but we have to take this into account, assessing the reality of coming into the budget next year. Nevertheless, compared to the plan for the current year, the revenue of the budget in 2003, which is the main source, according to the project, is expected to increase by 3.3 billion dollars, or 5.6 percent. In doing so, it is projected that income from income tax will increase significantly from citizens who are the main source of income from local budgets. Thus, the projected salary fund for the following year increases by more than 10 billion dollars compared to the forecast for 2002 or 16.4 percent as a result of an increase in the salary fund for the following year in the budget area. [[By our calculations, more than 2.6 billion dollars]] According to the government, the projected increase in revenue without changing current legislation, without adopting legislation on taxation, is virtually impossible, and the amount of revenue defined in the draft law is quite tense. At the same time, the draft State Budget Act for 2003 provides for a rule banning non-monetary budgeting and banning write-off and restructuring of tax debt, which should encourage taxpayers to improve payment discipline and implement the income part of the budget. This is, as it were, a mandatory prerequisite for the guaranteed implementation of the income portion of the State Budget Act in the following year. To prevent a repetition of the situation over the past few years with the planning of the privatisation of state property, the volume of these revenues in the draft State Budget Act for the following year is set at 2.1 billion dollars, which is virtually the largest of those received in recent years. [[which corresponds to the features of the Maintenance Fund without, as it were, the oily, one-time privatization of large objects]] This is actually 3.7 billion less than planned for the current year. But we have to realize that if large objects such as "The Shrimp" are privatized or the shelling pool is being implemented, it's already a separate matter, and if this is happening, we have to go back to that question, maybe even review the State Budget Act during the fiscal period. The resources indicated are not intended for current consumption but are budgeted and are the source of the principal amount of government debt, as defined in paragraph 6 of the Supreme Council's proposals for the Basic Directions of Budget Policy. This reflection of revenue from the privatization of state property is also logical in terms of the possibility of mutual compensation of government funding sources. In the event that these advances are not received, article 11 of the draft law proposes to strengthen the right to increase borrowing and vice versa. At the same time, the government is proposing that additional costs, as I said, be directed to priority investment and innovation budget programmes if the indicators are exceeded during the implementation of the State Budget in 2003. With regard to government loans in the following year, the government plans to include them in the general budget of the State budget of 6 billion dollars. In fact, this amount of borrowing is as much as possible. Of that amount, 1.3 billion dollars is internal borrowing, 4.7 billion dollars is external borrowing. The ratio of borrowing in the internal and external markets to the external markets came first because the external market, of course, has the largest liquidity. According to the state’s external market, it’s even cheaper today than what we’re doing in the internal market. On the basis of the stated and basic fiscal policies, in the 2003 draft of the State Budget, we propose to anticipate zero deficits in the general budget of the State Budget. The government budget deficit of 800 million dollars, or 0.3 percent of GDP, should be the result of the provision of investment and institutional loans to Ukraine from international financial institutions for specific purposes. Overall, the following year, more than 11.6 billion dollars are needed to service and repay government debt, which is 1.5 billion dollars higher than the corresponding targets in the 2002 budget. [[All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all ……]] It has to be noted once again that the next three years are totally peaky from the point of view of service and payment of government debt, so we all have an extremely balanced approach to government debt planning, both during this period and in subsequent fiscal periods. The funding indicators identified in the draft budget are optimal and provide an opportunity to reduce the debt burden on the budget in the future. One of the resources of the budget, which is underutilized today, is, in our view, the return of loans granted to the State or under State guarantees in the past years and other budgetary loans. For 2003, the government expects to receive nearly 700 million dollars of such funds, almost 2.4 times the amount of the corresponding task for the current year. But I'd like to be very correct. This task cannot be done just like that. To do so, the government must be given some authority. First of all, the government has the right to determine the order of restructuring of the debts of those debtors who can pay and service their debts to the state, but they need to restructure the fines in the past years. We need to grant the right to discount these debts because debt burdens for some businesses are virtually insurmountable. In my view, this has to be a completely transparent, completely open mechanism that will eventually help to restore at least a fraction of the debt of the host to the state budget. I can even tell you the scale of this problem. Today, under State guarantees, loans or loans are issued for almost $2 billion, of which nearly $1 billion is not served or recognized as hopeless. We have to finally get to this problem professionally and get the tools right so that we can start to really solve it. The amount of expenditure of the project of the consolidated budget for the following year is practically at the level of the corresponding estimates for 2002. It should be noted that in the current year, there has been a significant growth in budget expenditure in terms of the economic potential of the economy, which has raised to a rather high level the basic expenditure of budget managers. At the same time, in 2002, a number of decisions were already taken by the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers to increase social security for the population, including the increase in salaries for the budget, assistance, pensions and benefits for the population. Under these conditions, the government had to review the structure of the project expenditure of the consolidated budget for the following year in order to ensure optimal use of the available budget resources. This is done by reducing expenditure on the current year's budget programmes and reducing non-core expenditure or expenditure that has other sources of income or funding. At the same time, one of the main priorities in the planning of State budget expenditure is to maintain the level of social spending. Expenditures on most of the social budget programmes in the 2003 draft budget are rising against the current year's budget, resulting in an increase in their share of the overall budget from 50.7 per cent in 2002 to 53.8 per cent. I'm going to remind you that the total budget is also increasing by 3 billion dollars. In particular, expenditure on the overall education budget will increase by 9.8 percent this year, by 4.5 percent, and by 12.2 percent, both spiritually and physically. The 2003 draft budget provides for the introduction, from 1 July, of a minimum wage of 165 dollars and provides for appropriate allocations to be made on the basis of a tariff network to differentiate the remuneration of work in the budget area. The draft law also provides for the full implementation of article 57, paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 of the Education Law. It is proposed to increase the maintenance and pensions of military personnel. In comparison with the 2002 estimates, the Fund is expected to increase by 3.3 billion in the next year’s draft budget. In developing the 2003 budget project, the government has been working in a comprehensive manner on increasing the salaries of all categories of budget workers. In the area of social protection, the government was required to meet the requirement of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine for a fair and impartial distribution of social wealth between citizens and territorial communities, as well as article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which stipulates that social pay and assistance, which is the main source of livelihood, should ensure a standard of living that is not lower than the subsistence minimum set by law. In the government and among the MPs, there is an understanding and knowledge of the current situation of local aid. It cannot be said that today there is an effective state policy on this issue. Budget resources need to be focused primarily on providing assistance to low-income populations and citizens who are unable to support themselves. With this in mind, the State Budget project does not plan to reduce for the following year, but rather to leave the current level of payments to compensate for the loss of citizens’ savings. That's 500 million dollars. In doing so, I would like to stress that this is one of the most important social priorities, and if we make certain legislative decisions on taxes, we will be able to resolve this issue. It must be said that unfortunately, the draft budget does not offer a solution to the problems of funding certain programs. In particular, I would like to focus on the implementation of the Ukrainian Coal State Programme, which is projected to be funded at 2.2 billion dollars, plus 107 million dollars in subsidies to local budgets to restore jobs in mines that are closing down. This is actually 15 percent more than it was funded last year, but 300 million dollars less than planned this year. This issue should also be resolved with you in the drafting of the law, taking into account the possibility of adopting additional legislation. Unfortunately, this is not the only problem. In the absence of time, I can't stop on all the programs completely, but in summary, I can say that the draft budget presented for the consideration of the Supreme Council certainly doesn't provide for the resolution of all the issues that are at stake in our society. The total resource deficit, if you try to make all the decisions, is almost 10 billion dollars. We realize that such a task is virtually impossible to accomplish, and we need to be aware of it by prioritizing it. To conclude, this is a balanced draft of the budget, strained by income and hard at expense, but it's real. The government, the Ministry of Finance, is ready to cooperate with the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u3	Report completed. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for a question to the reporter. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're looking at this question and we can't now consider any other issues. Please read the Rules! Please sign up. Read the Rules, it's all written there. Please give me a list. He was killed by the faction "Our Ukraine." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u4	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u5	Turn on Matvienka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u6	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Gennady Andryovich! When I ask for words from the hearing procedure, this is from the examination procedure, and you have no right not to speak to me. I'm reading the Rules! Dear National Deputies! I want to address you and you, Gennady Andryovich, to all those present on behalf of the 70 deputies who are now in the Presidential Administration, where they are blocked and have no opportunity to move to meetings or to visit the President of our State to convey to him the demands that we have formulated with you this morning. Gennady Andryovich, first of all, I'd like to address you first, as the Head's duty today, with a request to influence the situation, because the absence of deputies is your problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u7	We have time to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u8	Secondly, I want to urge all the deputies who have a conscience, including the presidential factions, to go and liberate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u9	Turn off the microphone, please. Klimpush, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u10	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[constituency 75, Zakarpatsk Region]] Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister! In preparation for the draft budget, the introduction of the Law on Sources of Finance for the Ukrainian Road Economy and the Law on Taxes from Owners of Means of Transport was envisaged. Once again, however, you have foreseen the preservation of the order in operation during the current year — that is, funding will be only 50 percent. Why did you fail to meet the requirements of the Budget Resolution? Why do you do nothing to strengthen such an important sector as road agriculture? Because if there is no financing for the road sector, we will not be able to talk about integration into Europe. We can't even talk about anything if we don't decide. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u11	Thank you for asking. I must report the following to the distinguished national deputies. The State Budget Bill for the following year is indeed designed to target road financing through a special government budget fund under a special fund of 50 percent of the revenues from fuel excises, cars, tyres and spare parts. What does this look like in numbers? The State budget will include 807 million dollars and over 500 million dollars — local budgets. Together, in the next year, it is proposed that nearly 1 billion 400 million dollars be sent to finance the road economy, which is actually almost 200-250 million dollars more than has ever been paid historically in our country. I don't want to convince the Supreme Council that that's enough. In the report, I said that we have almost 10 billion dollars of resource deficit to solve all of the problems. The remaining 50 percent of these revenues are aimed at addressing socially equally significant issues. I mean, although the bill is intended to put 50 percent of the congregations on the road, I would stress that next year's funding will be 200-250 million dollars more than in the current year.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u12	Igor Olegovich, I understand all the specifics of the question that we're considering, but we need to try to answer the questions more briefly. There have been so many national MPs, and everyone would like an answer. Isaiah. After him is Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u13	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[constituency 169, Kharkiv region]] "European Choice." I have a question, Igor Olegovich. What amount of income of the future budget has not yet been supported or should be supported by legislation, and what is the status of the draft laws? [[reviewed in first or second readings, concluded and so forth]] Members should see how much legislative work we have to do not just to be witnesses but to be actively involved in the preparation of the budget for which we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u14	Thank you for asking. As far as the draft law is concerned, they are completely balanced because it is provided for in the Budget Code. We're designing a state budget project based solely on the actual legislation that went into effect by September 15th. As far as we're concerned. I've been talking about that we have a lot of unresolved issues, both sectoral and social. At the same time, the additional resources that we can get into the state budget, according to our estimates, reach almost 3.5 billion dollars. The relevant bills have been drafted. Part of these bills were submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council this summer. They were considered in June and July, but unfortunately they weren't supported. Other projects will be discussed tomorrow by the Cabinet of Ministers at a government meeting. I think by the end of this week they'll be registered with the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u15	Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich. After him, Suchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u16	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Mariupol. Dear Igor Olegovich, I have three questions for you. First question. The budget consists of two parts, the main part of which is the income, we understand that very well. Any problems are solved in normal income. To date, for industrial enterprises, especially exporting enterprises, VAT returns remain a very acute problem. However, since 1 October 2002, the Cabinet of Ministers' decree of 1392 has repealed the authorization for the mutual settlement of VAT bills. On the one hand, we do not return the accumulated VAT; on the other, we prohibit the calculation of the bill, thus placing the exporter in a very disadvantageous position. How do you feel about this decision, and how do you think it will affect the budget? The second question is the exchange rate difference, the ratio of the dollar to the bracelet. Is the Ministry of Finance viewed today as a source of budget replenishment, as has almost every country that has an exporter? And one last question. Igor Olegovic, even representatives of the authorities today claim that 50 per cent of the gross domestic product is in the shadows. The income tax that can be obtained by changing the tax system is income for the population and the first source of budget replenishment. What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u17	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. You have asked an extremely important question. Unfortunately, in the absence of time, I will not be able to answer in detail. It's 1392. It cannot be applied to exporters because they expect VAT compensation. First of all, it deals with importers who import goods into the customs territory of Ukraine. I could say it's an age-old question, like chicken-egg problem. First. It is necessary to take the money into the importers in order to have a source of VAT compensation for exporters. Sadly, this situation arose almost four years ago when it was said that importers lacked circulation costs. There was no other motivation, I emphasize, to apply this norm. But this needs to be changed. As far as essentially the issue of VAT compensation is concerned to exporters. What I want to say is that in the next year's draft budget, I would like to emphasize again, is that there's a reduction in debt from VAT by almost 1 billion dollars. This means that the government budget's income from VAT is reduced. This is what I reported from this rostrum during the consideration of the Budget Resolution. Now I'm going to report that this is actually done. In addition, those bills on VAT, which were and are still before the Supreme Council, provide for the possibility of introducing a separate procedure for those exporters who, if you will excuse me, deserve this. [[either transparent or free]] So it's not mediators, it's manufacturers, and that's the norm in government's proposals that are in the Supreme Council. I am ready for her detailed discussion. As far as the exchange rate difference is concerned, the issue is now being addressed. I can't comment on this in any more detail right now because I'm going to get into technological or professional slums. We're not gonna be able to discuss this right now, and I apologize for that. As far as income tax is concerned. Sergey Anatolyovich, Your Honor, you know that I have been among those who have spoken of this on this rostrum. They said to me, "What are you up to?" I mean, I'm the biggest proponent of reforming this tax in the first place. It was my first assignment as a minister, which I set for myself. For the first time in its history, the Ministry of Finance assumed responsibility for the real reform of this tax itself, the responsibility for the interests of the local budgets. [[how to manage it, how to keep it from failing tax reform]] Sadly, our proposals were not accepted. Unfortunately, other bills are being supported today, which I think will not lead to the economic result that we are looking for, but also cause significant damage to local budgets. But I think we'll be back in the Supreme Council soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u18	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. The next one is Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u19	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[electoral district 79, Zaporezki region]] The city of Zaporozhye. The fraction of the SDPO(s). Igor Olegovich, two questions. First. Is there sufficient reason for the government to say that the budget under consideration would create a favourable environment for economic growth in 2003 through fiscal policy? The other one. Why do budget elements of social injustice grow year after year, and the relationship between government and local budgets worsens? An example. In 2003, out of the local budget of the Zaporozhye Region, 48 percent more than in 2002, including 7 times more from the district budget. Where is the reality and balance of the budget?Oh, my God! The Banquet region is investing 3 million dollars more in equity, and it takes 68 million dollars more than it did in 2002. At the brink of collapse, the health system of such an ecologically unfavourable land as Zaporzik. The area transfers 1 billion 900 million dollars to the budget and receives about 800 million dollars. What's the answer? What plans does Kabmin have to make, to normalize, inter-budget relations in 2003? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u20	Thank you for the very important questions, distinguished national MP. With regard to the impact of the budget on economic growth next year. I can say that the adoption of this project will not worsen the conditions of economic growth next year. What does that mean? The tax burden on economic operators will not increase in the following year. As far as tax reform is concerned, it is not up to the government to resolve the issue. Such economic realities. With regard to government and local budgets, I can say this. Yeah, I'm also a long way from thinking that in inter-budget relations we've solved all the issues. I spoke about this several times during meetings with the heads of state administrations and heads of local self-government, both in the Cabinet of Ministers, and in the Supreme Council under the chairmanship of the Supreme Council. That's the first one. The other one. Despite the extremely difficult state budget expenditure situation, the share of local budgets in terms of income and local budgets is rising compared to the current year. It is increasing due to the fact that in Ukraine as a whole more than one billion dollars will remain in place, and more than 1 billion dollars will be added to this year’s volume to the local budgets so that they can make the planned expenditures. I want to say that it is very difficult for me personally to communicate with the leaders of the regions. Take Zaporzik district, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Poltavsk, Kiev. [[Her governor was literally with me yesterday.]] These are all donors. The most difficult question is: how do you optimize the amount of removals so that, on the one hand, there's sufficient resources in the regions to do the task, and on the other hand, to make it a stimulating resource? In doing so, what will we do with depressed regions, respected friends? That's our problem with you. The Ukrainians live there just like we do with you. We have to solve this problem because today, whole cities in the Donetsk region have become budgetary institutions: there is no work at all, they are actually kept at the expense of the budget. It is almost impossible to find some psychological optimism. This can only be done economically. I apologize for this not a very short, little emotional answer, but please understand that the final definite answer to this question does not exist in nature. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u21	Thank you. The time taken for questioning is exhausted. Have a seat, please. I report that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, participates in the evening meeting of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] The report is given to the head of the Committee on Budgets, Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u22	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[Election District 12, Viennese Region]] Your Honor is presiding! Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! Dear colleagues! The official submission of the 2003 State Budget project, together with the recognition of the government's work on the implementation of the 2001 State Budget, is an integral part of the single budgetary process. Under the Budget Code, along with the 2003 draft State Budget, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine reported to the Supreme Council on the progress of the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget in the current fiscal year. I would like to point out that those negative trends in the government's implementation of the budget in the current year, marked by the Supreme Council in July, unfortunately, are only increasing, and the levels of underfunding have exceeded those that, according to the Budget Code, force the Cabinet of Ministers to address the issue of the budget sequester. Now directly about the government's project. The draft State Budget Act is submitted in accordance with article 96 of the Constitution and article 37 of the Budget Code in the established terms, which is an absolute positive. According to an analysis by the Committee on Budget Affairs of the Supreme Council, the project contains, unfortunately, significant contradictions with the current legislation of Ukraine. The provisions of articles 22 and 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the social protection of individual categories of citizens have been violated. The requirements of article 27 of the Budget Code regarding the accounting of Ukrainian laws that were not published by 15 August of this year are not dealt with in accordance with Article 1 of the Law on the Tax System, the rules governing the granting of benefits to individual categories of workers on professional grounds and so on. Not included, dear colleagues, 29 of the 52 Supreme Council Regulations on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2003. I would like to remind you that, according to the Budget Resolution, the size of the special fund was to be substantially reduced. Under our agreement with the government, we have in fact decided to restrict it only with foreign loans and grants provided for in Ukraine’s current legislation. Instead, we have a significant increase in this project, which, according to practice, only leads to abuse, additional difficulties in income and expenditure planning, and in fact to the removal of the Supreme Council, namely, you, your peers, from prioritising budgetary funding, because without agreement with the Supreme Council, income and expenditure are assigned. The main directions of the budget policy for inclusion in the state budget structure of the Pension Fund and other trust funds have not been implemented. In fact, these are public finances that are being removed from the payer by force, not by will. The Committee on Budgets proposed that only the amount of income and expenditure of the Pension Fund be approved without intervention, i.e. de facto, simply informing the Supreme Council of the extent of these revenues and expenditures. Unfortunately, this rule is not taken into account by the government either. We're told that the budget is tense, that we have to cut social costs, but at the same time, the income is calculated very roughly as a result of the imperfect verification of macro indicators. In particular, the project submitted for 2003, with a planned real increase in gross domestic product, provides for a decline in the amount of revenue generated by the budget in relation to gross domestic product, i.e. a decrease in the proportion of the national product that is redistributed through the national budget. This suggests artificially underestimating income. Imperfect planning for 2002 resulted in a planned profit of 51 billion dollars and a profit of 41 billion, a planning error of 20 percent. [[We can give an example.]] What macroeconomic indicators and their perfection can we speak of? The macroeconomic indicators planned by the government are also not in line with the basic monetary policy orientations for 2003 adopted by the Constitution of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. In particular, according to the government, the exchange rate is projected at $5.57 a dollar, while the NBA predicts it at $5.48 apiece. Imagine how different this can be when exporters and importers pay excise fees and duties if they express it in a freely converted currency. [[up to hundreds of millions of dollars]] In general, macro-indicators need a clearer description at the legislative level. In our view, they need to be listed comprehensively, based on reasonableness, a single calculation methodology, and so forth. In terms of income, with nominal growth in gross domestic product, 11.5 percent of the revenue generated by the budget increased by only 5.6 percent compared to 2002 and, in general, only 3.6 percent. In 2003, real income is projected to fall by 1.42 percent from the U.S. budget. At the same time, I remind you that the budget resolution has provided for a substantial reduction in the size of the special fund, and the project that we have received shows an increase in the special fund by 14 percent in the state budget, by 17 percent in the local budget. That means, dear colleagues, you're depriving yourself of the authority to prioritize the use of budget funds. For us, income is linked to expenses. I think this practice is wrong. The lowest is the rate of growth in revenue to the general government budget, which is 2.5 percent. In spite of the requirements of article 29 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, despite negative practices this year, the Ministry of Finance did not include an income of 2.1 billion dollars from privatization to the government budget. Moreover, dear fellows, we have moved on to eating the state's assets due to the lack of resources to finance capital injections to replace the income from privatization. It is also worth noting that the income section is planning to reduce the amount of tax collected for the profits of enterprises. It raises doubts, respectable colleagues, the amount of the value added tax, and the fact that we're betting 1 billion dollars on the added value of the tax, without changing the administration of the tax. Only two digits will be used. We have a relatively modest increase in exports -- 4 percent. The project proposes an increase of nearly 20 percent in the value added tax. So this shows that the tax is being reimbursed without real exports to certain fictitious or criminal firms. At the same time, real manufacturers today have major difficulties in obtaining full compensation. In our view, if you put $1 billion in tax payback in these conditions, this billion will go back to being water in the sand without a major solution to the real production problems of Ukraine. The project foresees that in 2003 the National Bank of Ukraine will receive 700 million dollars, with a clear objection to the head of government of the National Bank of Vladimir Stelma, who is present in this room, and the actual absence of a real basis for this figure in the budget committee. We would certainly ask the government to hold a joint meeting with the National Bank to clarify these figures. A serious threat to the implementation of the income part of the budget is the tendency to retain and increase tax assets, which in eight months of this year has increased by almost 5 billion dollars and today stands at 11.2 billion dollars. Imagine, for example, that the coming of the income part of the budget, the return of the mortgage on January 1, 2003, is not included in the budget. So in fact, we have to raise our hands and acknowledge our helplessness in the issue of tax evasion. There are also individual questions about the justification of excise duties, rent payments, payments in the fuel and energy complex, but the Committee on Budget Affairs operates subcommittees and prepares its proposals to the Supreme Council for first reading. The draft law does not provide for an effective system of raising funds for the administration of state corporate rights. As a result, the heads of individual state - owned enterprises are using hundreds of millions of dollars on their own account in actual government and the Supreme Council. As far as expenses are concerned. The draft State Budget did not address the issue of repayment of the accounts payable by budgetary institutions. By August 1, 2002, the global debt rose by 261 million dollars against the beginning of the year and is now 2 billion 200 million dollars. The 2003 State Budget project also does not contain proposals for the elimination of the social debt that has reached 827 million under the state budget, while local budgets have exceeded billions. I mean, what's being proposed? On January 1st, a certain social debt will be created, and the government will leave the major budget administrators who have not been funded this year, as well as the local budgets alone, without proposing a real solution to the situation that has arisen. In article 54 of the project, the government again foresees restrictions on the granting of benefits provided by Ukraine’s laws and guarantees to citizens that are contrary to the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court. We realize that there is no real funding for all benefits, but we require the government to take a stand and meet the requirements of the Budget Resolution on targeted compensation for the benefits and on the introduction of laws on the clarification or elimination of certain types of benefits that have not been financed and will not be financed by the budget. The project also does not foresee an increase in minimum wage; rather, it plans to increase wages for law enforcement and defence workers. The number of chief budget managers has increased. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this extremely exciting issue, because the increase in the number of chief budget managers leads only to the dispersion of the budget and hinders the implementation of a balanced policy of the government. According to the Budget Resolution, the State budget of Ukraine must be inefficient. Instead, we have a government budget deficit of 815 million dollars. It's about government debt. Internal debt is planned to reduce from $12 billion 800 million to $11 billion 800 million, while external debt will actually increase by $200 million. Foreign borrowings of $5.9 billion and domestic loans of 1.3 billion are planned for public debt service purposes. The structure of the planned loans requires special attention. In the National Bank’s view, under conditions of excessive liquidity in the banking system, conjuncture is conducive to public borrowing in the internal, not the external, markets. As far as local budgets are concerned. We constantly hear the assurance that the next budget year for local budgets should be much better, that the share of local budgets will increase to 45.7 percent next year compared to 40 percent this year. But I have repeatedly argued that these figures are incomparable because they are transferred to local budgets without corresponding transfers. That is to say, the task of making payments related to higher salaries for education, health care workers, and some part of the local police support costs is relied on, and only a little more than half of the necessary funds are allocated from the State Budget. Dear colleagues! When we vote on land-paying benefits, we have to understand that the same amount has to be provided in an additional part of the public budget to compensate local budgets. Unfortunately, this year we again left the local budgets alone with this problem. Today, we have met with people from more than four areas, and all over the region insists that this issue be resolved. The project does not provide for repayment of the accounts payable by the budgetary institutions financed by the local budgets. It is noteworthy that in seven months of the current year, this debt increased from 524 million to 782 million dollars. Regrettably, the State Budget project does not provide for the development of inter-budget reform, which has stopped at the level of district budgets. We hope that after the adoption of the State Budget Act, the Supreme Council will work actively with the government to continue the reform of inter-budget relations. Dear colleagues! Fully aware that there are formal reasons for rejecting the State Budget project, desiring not to dampen the budgetary process and realizing that within one week the government will not be able to take into account all the proposals and inadequacies expressed by the budgetary committee, the budgetary committee has approved the decision to take the project proposed by the government into consideration so that it can be thoroughly processed before the first reading, taking into account the comments already made, as well as the comments that will come from you, the honourable colleagues of the people's deputies, from the leaders of the factions, from the heads of the committees. Once again, I insist that the deadline for comments to the budget committee should be October 1st, and the proposals to be prepared by the budget committee will give us the opportunity to make a qualitative, substantial improvement in the project proposed by the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u23	The report has been completed. Please sign up for the question. Please explain. The word is given to Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich. The next one is Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u24	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 160, Sumska oblast]] Dear Peter Alexiovich! The Final Positions of the Budget Code contains an article that provides for the cost of budgeting: 5 percent, 4 percent, 3 percent. But the Supreme Council of the past vocation in article 26 determined that these costs remain in the district budget, distributed according to the order approved by the district government. How do you think that these 4 percent will lead to areas, cities, entities involved in the budget process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u25	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikolo Petrovich. I support your position that we need to bring these costs to the district level today. I'm sure this year we're going to have to do this with a separate article of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, with the support of the Hall. And next year, I'm sure we'll be able to take this into account in further reforming inter-budget relations in the Budget Code so that we don't go back every time we consider the draft Law on Budgeted for the next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u26	Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich. Next, Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u27	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[electoral district 59, Donetsk Region]] Dear Peter Aleksevich! I think you will, and we have agreed, to support the committee in the field of budget funding. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question, and I apologize to Peter Alexeevich. I'm very short, it's just not my turn. Today, Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah is present in the Hall. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers in the formation of the coal sector budget is unclear. This year we have a budget of 2 billion 668 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u28	I'm asking you not to distract the government. Allow me to listen to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u29	Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! I address you to the Cabinet of Ministers. This year, the budget is 2.7 billion dollars. The draft budget is submitted, for the coal sector, we spoke at the meeting of the Kabmin, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Fuel Energy. The situation has not changed yet. The budget allocates 850 million bracelets to the household. We already have to go to the Ministry, the budget committee, to transfer 80 million bracelets from restructuring to holding, because that is not enough. The capital injections for the following year have been reduced compared to this year. After restructuring, 850 million bracelets. So we're planning 600 million bracelets. We are planning 107 million bracelets to create jobs. That's why I'm addressing Anatoly Kirilovich again. The Government decides to close the mines. Today, the industry is said to be taking very large amounts of money, 850 million bracelets. This year, 1.5 billion bracelets have been allocated for restructuring. [[We have an article like this today.]] We take Minfin, and we give the rest to the coal industry. And let the Ministry of Finance be responsible for the restructuring of the coal industry. We have considered this issue in our committee, we support the Ukrainian Coal programme, and the coal industry must be financed under this programme. I would like to take our proposals into account in the budget formulation and in the adoption of the draft on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u30	Thank you. The question was essentially not to me, but, you know, the budget committee was involved in a meeting that was organized by the Chief of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Fuel Energy, and, of course, understanding the complex situation in which coal workers were involved, we're going to take some steps to improve the level of funding. But at the same time, we need to understand that this should not complicate the indicator of reality, the balance of the budget and especially take into account that this year is the critical debt burden that falls on the budget, and in fact this budget contains a substantial reduction in social expenditure, as noted by distinguished colleague Viktor Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u31	Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich. Next up is Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u32	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[electoral district 170, Kharkiv region]] NDP faction. Dear Peter Aleksevich! You know, in the income section of the budget, there are 2 billion 300 million bracelets. This is the rent for transit of natural gas in Ukraine. And you may also know that today this compulsory payment is not provided for in the Tax System Act in Ukraine. Thus, these are now the means that are extracted from the oil and gas industries that threaten the continued transport of gas under conditions that have been stipulated with Russia. This is despite the fact that, by the end of the year, Naka's debt to the tax and tax budget would be one billion 200 million dollars. What is the relation of the budget committee to this payment? The position of the Fuel Complex Sector Committee was that this payment should not be eliminated would be significantly reduced. What is the position of the Budget Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u33	The Budget Committee yesterday at a meeting of the working group of the State Budget Sub-Committee on Income discussed this issue with NAC employees Naftogaz Ukraine. We have no reason not to take these 2 billion dollars into account in the revenue of the state budget. The requirements of the Budget Code are that if we offer to withdraw certain incomes, we have to subtract certain expenses. I'm sure we have to make changes to actual legislation in order to fix this tax on the one hand. On the other hand, I'm confident that the issue of gas transit revenue is one of the very important components of the government budget's income. And I'm sure neither the budget committee nor the Supreme Council will be able to completely remove these revenues. We need to look closely at how the gas transport system works, how much real money they need to do it, but the fact that this is going to stay in the income part of the budget, I have little doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u34	Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich. The next one is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u35	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[constituency 144, Odessa Region]] Thank you. It's a faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Dear Peter Alexiovich! A government budget is not implemented year after year in part of the financing of agrarian programs. More than 130 million dollars have also been underfunded this year. The draft State Budget Act 2003 already plans to legitimize a reduction of nearly 200 million dollars compared to 2002. But the APC has increased production over the years, and the budget is almost doubled. Should we cut down the bitch we're sitting on? That's the first one. The other one. The total volume of transfers from the general budget to the local budgets exceeds 11 percent in the 2002 budget, and the amount of grants increases by 10 percent. Peter Alexiyovich, as the committee suggests, are these volumes linked to rising energy prices and rising wage levels? Third. From year to year, the nation’s debt to the population living in a polluted area has increased since the Chernobyl AES accident. Is it planned to completely repay the debt to the population, since in the Plain region alone, this debt is 90 million dollars? What does the Committee on Budgets think about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u36	Thank you, Your Honor Vassil Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u37	I'm asking you to answer only what falls within your purview.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u38	Dear colleagues! I'll have a request: let's not distract our distinguished prime minister and minister of finance from asking questions that have a direct bearing on the government, not on the budget committee or on me as his head, because we have to do everything we can to get them to hear it. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to distract the Prime Minister from hearing this question. What is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u40	The other one. Dear Vassil Antonovich! I strongly believe that the main thing that we have to do for agriculture is to stand down for the tax premium on added value. If we took it down, then we'd have a buried agrarian complex at least between 2003 and 2004. I have no doubt about it. That's the main thing. I think we've found an understanding and we haven't missed this shameful norm. If you are interested in my position as an expert, not as a committee head, because the committee has not taken a decision on this issue, then the government's primary commitment is to establish a level of prices that would ensure the necessary medium-term profitability. And then there wouldn't have to be any grants or funding from the budget, no other positions. The fact that we are not solving the price regulation problem today certainly destroys agriculture much more than the lack of 200 million planned in the next year's draft budget. [[the principal function of the executive authority]] I think we should probably propose these steps to the government in order for the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the government as a whole to take steps to take into account the resources that are at its disposal. Regarding the debt of payments to survivors of a Chernobyl accident. I said in my statement that, for today, out of 688 million dollars in debt, we're returning 200 million dollars to black people, and we're not telling people anything about 500 million dollars. Will this debt be restructured, or do they hope to receive it in 2004 or 2005? Does the State exempt itself from the obligation to serve this debt? This refers to the apparent shortcomings of the budget project that you and I have been given to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u41	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Next up, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u42	Thank you. The fraction of the SDPO(s). Peter Alexiyovich, I have a professional question for your committee. Or the biggest problem in this budget is the approach to the development of a health - care expenditure mechanism. [[You've already said that.]] This year, you know, the so-called correction factor for urban and rural populations was applied. This has led to donor areas having major problems right now. In rural areas, such as the Zaporozhye region, debt is 5 million dollars. Please tell me, how do you feel about the so-called relative cost of medical services for this year, depending on the age structure of the population? How do you, as head of the committee, view the proposal to remove this coefficient as unfounded, as a hidden form of reducing expenditure in areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u43	Thank you, Reverend Jaroslav Mikhailovich. It was on the budget committee yesterday that we heard representatives of the Zaporozhye region, and many of the national deputies present can confirm that the conversation was very professional, unbiased. And we have an agreement to create a working group. We're going to ask the Ministry of Finance to put their representatives into this task force to test the justifications for the coefficients that were applied to the calculation of local budgets. We certainly have a very limited time, but since this question is actually repeated in all without exception from donor areas, we will give very serious attention to testing the basis of these indicators in the Ministry of Finance formulas.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u44	Thank you. Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u45	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Peter Alexiovich! The main problem with budgeting is increasing budget revenue, mobilizing budget resources. In this regard, the main task of the government is to find sources of increasing revenue for the budget. How do you and your committee view the draft budget proposed by the government? The government is proud of the reality of the budget. Does this not mean that the government is trying to make life easier by offering an unsettled budget? Is there an increase in budget income? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u46	Thank you for asking. That is why the budget committee began working on the draft budget. We've done a very thorough analysis of the reality of the income figures of the budget. We certainly see some reserves that we think are not fully accounted for by the government in terms of the income base. This also applies to the reserves contained in the income tax, according to the budget committee, a possible increase in excise duties of between 150 million and 200 million dollars. And in general, if we take these ratios of budget incomes to GDP growth, we're going to see, by about 1 percent, that there's not enough income from reality. I made that clear in my statement and said that we would certainly work on it and take into account incomes that were not calculated by the government. At the same time, the budget committee will take a position in principle that the draft budget should come out of the budget committee realistic in order to remove the government's ability to manage the budget manually. Each article of the budget will have to be funded. This is the principle of the budget committee's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u47	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Bandur to Alexander Markovich. Next up, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u48	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[Election District 176, Kharkiv Region]] Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I'm acting as the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. The theme of my speech is funding law enforcement. If the rule of law and the protection of human rights and freedoms are not priorities in the State, it is difficult to survive. I say that because the proposals proposed in the draft State Budget Act for funding law enforcement agencies do not satisfy anyone. For example, the Ministry of Internal Affairs offers only 23 percent of what is required by valid legislation to pay for the work. If you take the current year, only half of the money - support legislation provided for in the current year will be paid. There's a material and technical base that's going down, and there's been a lot of bank debt. The same is true of the prosecutor's offices and the Department of Punishment. Nothing is envisaged for housing construction, for health care, for the maintenance of the units that were financed before that from local budgets. In the light of article 45 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002 it is said that it was allowed to maintain the cost of a unit of occupational fire, road traffic and road security, distribution receivers for persons without a permanent residence, an address office. At the same time, the funding and maintenance of district inspectors and the post office, which function at the expense of local budgets, remained outside the legal field. Our committee is proposing in the draft State Budget Act 2003, to provide for an article that would give local government authorities the right to maintain local budgets for all of the above-mentioned units, including the post office. In view of the lack of payment to the State budget and in line with article 54 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the Ministry of Finance plans to impose a temporary limitation on the general budget of the State budget. Please do not impose restrictions on law enforcement authorities. We will send proposals from our Committee on Budget Affairs and ask for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u49	Thank you. Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich. The next one is Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u50	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Electoral District 187, Herson District]] I think about how to start my speech, because in three minutes it is virtually impossible to talk about all the problems of science and education. I'll be brief. Education and science are giving the society a "sos" signal today. By the end of August, there seemed to be no reason to be concerned about education and science. In a letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a letter to Independence Day, the President said that it was necessary to choose the innovative nature of society's development, the fundamental changes in the government's attitude towards education and science, that these areas would become a special focus area, and that there was an immediate increase in wages for workers in these fields. And in Odessa, literally a few days ago, he claims that this promotion must happen at least twice in the following year. When our Committee on Science and Education examined the actual budget project, we saw that in the State Budget project, the general civil science fund under the chapter "Fundamental Research" is only 0.31 percent of the domestic gross product. And it's practically less than this year's. [[if as a percentage of the brothers]] I'm not going to talk about the fact that today we're running out of material and technology, and less than 6 percent of the cars and equipment that are in academic institutions are under five years old, and the rest is long overdue. I'm going to say that scientific footage is getting old and there's no sense of fresh energy. And home science is on the verge of completely exhausting development opportunities, because the funding provided in the draft budget is not enough. I want to say that all of our neighbors, let's say Russia, are increasing the cost of science by 30 percent, and we're not doing that. And Russia is increasing the cost of education by 22 percent. Education is in a very critical state today. I'm addressing the people's deputies. When each of us gets the first penny of his salary, he spends it on children. We're spending everything. By 100 percent, we're thinking of raising the wages of the Mino Defence, the IMF, the taxpayers. We leave everything to the teachers at the same level. What are we talking about? What if we're canceling even 1-3 classes today? If we are 80 percent compared to this year's, do we plan to spend on textbooks if we reduce the cost of computerization of schools, if we don't cover the cost of utilities? What, are our children going to sit in the cold again?Oh, my God! We are planning 60 million in the trade sector to pay for utilities, and this year's debt for these services is almost 60 million. What are we talking about? Where Will Future Workers Be? I'm not talking about college anymore. We planned to increase the cost of higher education and increase the government’s demand. There is no financial support for this. The average wage in industry is planned at 570 dollars, and the teacher after the college will receive 170 - 180. Neither the professor’s nor the docent’s wages will reach the industry’s average. So we need at least one and a half times the salary for teachers, to increase the cost of utilities by 100 million at the expense of reducing the cost of a repressive administrative apparatus, which is now twice the cost of the army, and also on the basis of external debt, at the expense of various grants to different sectors. And that takes at least one and a half billion dollars. We don't have another way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u51	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Next up is Zweigilski Yuhim Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u52	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] Dear government! Dear Parliamentarians! Of course, the budget issue is very important, and on behalf of the Committee on Freedom of Speech today, questions could be raised as to why some printed media have State aid, and others do not. [[And we'll do it.]] Classification is very simple. The most loyal subjects are closest to this, to the trough. Let's say there's a question about why the government is supported by the newspaper "Working Paper" and why isn't the "Village News" supported by the government? Well, it would look like agriculture and a working class. But there was something unusual about me going out on this rostrum. I'm authorized by four factions, I'm just from the Presidential Palace and authorized on behalf of the 49 national deputies who are currently in the palace to tell you the truth of what's going on there. We, a group of deputies from almost all the factions, passed through a vast gap of omonics, entered the Presidential Palace. We were missed through this frame, searched, and the guard said, "The president will see you." The task was to give the President the documents he accepted. [[I want you and our voters who are listening to us right now to know.]] Did it seem easier? Take and receive national MPs, and the incident is off. Between the third and fourth floors of the stairs, we were met by omonics. I didn't even see them dressed like that at the rally. All in masks, machine guns, shields. Here you are, my dear fellows, not to see it, not to see it simply a man who, or, forgive me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u53	Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u54	I'm done. I'm authorized to state on behalf of these national deputies, they said to say it from the rostrum, they're declaring hunger strike! No one is allowed into the Presidential Palace. Thank you. I carried out my mission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u55	The word is given to Zweigil Yuhim Leonidovich. The next one is Tomich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u56	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[constituency 43, Donetsk Region]] Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! Dear Gennady Andreevich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Without linking with Ukraine's economic and social development programme for 2003, the budget is passive and is not an effective basis for further recovery and improvement of the standard of living of our people. The programme remains a list of intentions without financial justification. Linking the draft budget to the economic and social development programme will enhance their mutual validity. Various scenarios of the draft budget at the time of its consideration do not have the right to exist. Second. The funding of the coal industry in the amount of the draft budget would not stop the negative processes in the industry. Mintopenergo believed that such funding would halve coal production in 2005 and would amount to only 40 million tons. The faction supports the proposal of the Sectoral Committee for the allocation of the coal industry for 2003 of 3.2 billion coins with decryption in specific areas of use. Third. The method of creating local budgets is far from perfect. Example. The Donetsk region, producing the fifth part of the country's produce, has been artificially transformed into a grant. This, my friends, is nonsense! The formal approach does not take into account the specificities of the administrative units, particularly the depressive ones, in particular the cities and areas where mines are closed, the lack of objective inter-budget relations, the distortions between urban and regional budgets, the lack of economic, demographic and other factors. The budget of the Cabinet of Ministers does not take into account the transfer of the social sphere to communal property. Subsidies allocated are not sufficient for social programmes and other mandatory functions, and their implementation depends on the will of the centre. The faction believes that the proposals of the Donetsk Region for application in the calculation of the special adjustment factor and the accounting of objective negative trends in the finalization of the project must be taken into account. This will enable the area to avoid a sharp decline in indicators, maintain social stability, economic potential and all prerequisites for further recovery. Assistance and support must be returned to the place where they will have a guaranteed return. Fourth. Improvements in budgeting methods should be continued. When budgeting, information on the necessary finances for each position should be provided in a quarterly section. On the basis of positions of more than a year's duration, with funds for their full implementation, including those completed at the beginning of the planned year and expected effectiveness. This will enable better evaluation, rapid monitoring and efficient spending during the year. And the last. The practice of inter-budget relations in the principle of “remove everything that is possible to divide the balances after the expenditure of the centre” is at its core. Regional authorities are not interested in improving the performance of activities, including profit. Is that not one of the causes of distortions, a large number of loss-making enterprises? The possibilities on the ground are limited by a rigid system of transfers, which is contrary to the path towards enhancing the role of the regions. The Budget Code does not contain the term “free balance of the budget at the end of the year”. Should it occur, it should not be taken into account in the calculation of subsidies and transfers, but should be taken into account by local authorities for any legitimate purposes. The faction of the Party of the Regions believes that the draft provides a basis for further work and should be addressed on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, let's follow the rules. I beg your pardon, Ivan Fedorovich, let's consult. We have the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The committee proposes to listen to his information on monetary policy, and then we will continue the discussion. Is there no objection? Please, Vladimir Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u58	Head of Government of the National Bank of Ukraine. Your Honor is presiding! Dear Chairman! Dear national deputies, members of the government, members of this meeting! According to valid legislation, the National Bank Council presented to the Supreme Council by September 15, the basic principles of monetary policy for 2003 and the National Bank’s balance of funds. The board has authorized me to inform you of the basic principles of monetary policy. First of all, what strategic task should monetary policy solve in 2003? This is about giving economic turnover so much money to ensure the basic macroeconomic indicators that are set up by the Economic and Social Development Programme for this year, I mean 2003. This means that we have to confirm the rate of economic growth with money, because not just for politicians, for civil servants, but even for ordinary citizens, has become a well-known postulate that only economic growth is able to provide for the social needs that arise in society. In this regard, I would like to give you figures. Gross national product in nominal terms is projected to increase by about 12 percent, the rate of growth in gross industrial output -- about 13 percent, agriculture -- is also about 12 percent. That means we have to give the money enough to provide this product. And we're predicting that there's going to be an economic growth rate of about 17-20 percent, which is, as you can see, with a slightly larger stock, by 5 to 7 percentage points, than an increase in the basics. But that is not all. The main task is also that this money should have a stable basis, i.e. the purchasing power of money should not be reduced, taking into account the normative level of inflation that is also foreseen in the economic and social development programme. The inflation rate for 2003 is projected to be between 6 and 7 percent. And that's why we think that this amount of money is going to generate economic growth. And I also want to say that, according to different estimates, real GDP also needs to increase by 5 to 6 percent, and eventually it's not approved yet, it's going to be represented. [[This amount has not yet been approved]] The next question is that there are a number of local internal tasks that should be addressed by monetary policy. First of all, it's a higher level of monetaryization. The level of monetary increase indicates that we are taking a course to establish monetary accounts, especially among legal persons. If we reach a monetary level about 27 percent this year, then the next thing we have a normal monetary policy is about 30 percent. This is a significant increase, three percentage points. The next task comes from the level of development and production of industrial and agricultural products. We're saying that monetary policy should ensure this industrial growth. In this regard, credit growth in a particular economy is expected to increase by about 28 percent. So you see, the rate of growth of credit deposits in a particular economy is almost doubling. Another task is to change the structure of these loans. First of all, the price to get to more or less normal rates of interest rates on loans. And another challenge is to change the structure of the loans themselves. Since you know that the government's economic agenda provides that economic growth will be largely ensured by investment and innovation policies, it requires a change in the structure of loans towards increasing the drinking weight of long-term loans. In this regard, it is anticipated that the base achieved this year will also be strengthened by the money supply of the central bank, the medium - term and long - term resources. [[already more than 8 billion loans have been made to long-term projects]] This means that the rate that the National Bank claimed to lower interest rates is being strengthened by that medium-term resource. [[I mean the National Bank account rate 8]] This gives confidence that politics does not have a conjunctural character but is defined as a well - established course of implementation. And so we hope that this will enable us to get to the optimal level of interest rates that have now reached about 20 percent and reach at least 16. We think this would be an extremely optimistic level. The next question, as a segment of this monetary policy, is monetary policy. This asked the Minister of Finance about the policy course. First of all, we need to consider exchange-rate policy issues from such positions. What should the exchange rate provide? So if we say that the stability of the national currency is identified by the levels of normative inflation, it's an integral indicator. The currency exchange rate in the open economy, which is our Ukrainian economy, is extremely important in two directions. [[And you know, almost 70 percent of gross national product is exports and about 60 percent imports.]] First of all, the exchange rate should not hold back the financial efficiency of exporters. But they should not be compensated for their natural export losses. If exports are reduced in a natural expression, no exchange rate issues can be compensated. The second question. Since about 80 percent of imports go into the manufacturing sector, there is a question of both external inflation and domestic inflation. [[Or more at times.]] As soon as we're lowering our course, it's more expensive to import. And you know that we have critical imports, they're all known to you, as well as investment policy issues, they're imports of high-end equipment, know-how and so on. These questions also require that the course be realistic, objectively defined. He certainly should not be overly or too downhearted. The next foreign exchange issue is certainly the support of a domestic producer. There's also a stick with two ends. On the one hand, it requires that this is normal at the cost of importing goods, especially food. And secondly, it should also stimulate investment and allow those manufacturers working on imported raw materials but on the internal market. They too should have these reparations. So I'd like to make the following statement. The 2003 monetary programme provides the project goals identified in the Social and Economic Development Programme. Of course, with the adoption of the budget, some adjustments will be made with the adoption of the program, and then we will also make adjustments, but the strategic task remains unchanged. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u59	Thank you. The question is to Vladimir Seminovich? None. Have a seat, please. We're continuing the discussion. The word is given to Tomich Ivan Fedorovich. Get ready for Karpov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u60	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations reviewed the draft State Budget for 2003 and forwarded its proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need to review the limits and increase the amount of government budget expenditure by $1 billion compared to this year's levels. Regrettably, our proposals are not taken into account; rather, compared to the 2002 budget, we are planning to cut by 190 million dollars. Under these circumstances, the formation of the State Budget has made it impossible for a number of laws, especially the recently adopted grain and grain market laws, to stimulate agricultural development for 2001-2004, to give priority to agricultural development. Today, I understand, and I agree with the head of the budget committee, the most important three directions for the Ukrainian village. The first is price policy. The second is technical policy. And the third is financial credit policy. What can be said about price policy, when even for Ukraine, which is the largest five-six grain exporters, we don't plan on paying the price of any bracelet in the budget?Oh, my God! What about technical policy at a time when over 80 percent of the equipment is worn out and we are not planning any bracelets to compensate for the complex agricultural techniques?Oh, my God! At the same time, only 43 million dollars are planned for agricultural lending. At the same time, in 2000, taxes were paid in excess of 6 billion dollars, twice as much as in 1998. The increase in agricultural production in the last two years is almost 20 percent. At the same time, the work of an agricultural worker gives work to eight workers in other sectors of the national economy. Unfortunately, these obvious facts are not taken into account, which leads to an increase in the general economic problems of the state as a whole. As a result, we anticipate the following negative effects. First. The absence of agrarian market regulation mechanisms will lead to the tinning of agrarian production. The other one. Increasing price distortions as a result of imbalances in inter-branch relations will lead to even greater agricultural output losses, which can already be estimated at 70 percent this year, and total debt, total damage, up to 3 billion. Third. Reducing the amount of credit in the sector is bartering. Fourth. There will be an increase in the amount of debt on payments to the budget, the Pension Fund, which will lead to social tension. Taking into account the above figures, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations believes that the bill should be seriously revised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u61	Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich. Next up is Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u62	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Statement by the leaders of the parliamentary factions and groups of the Supreme Council "In recent times, the opposition of the political forces has intensified in Ukraine, which is the result of deliberate and purposeful actions by opposition representatives. From the meetings and demonstrations guaranteed by the Constitution, the opposition is directly exerting force on the authorities and government: district administrations are blocked, and on September 23, an attempt was made to seize the television center in Kiev. Today, about 14 hours a group of Ukrainian people's deputies have entered the office of the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilović Kuchma, and is trying to create obstacles to the exercise of his constitutional powers by the head of state. These actions are seen as a direct threat to the activities of the authorities in the exercise of their constitutional powers. The National Deputies of the Nine factions believe that the law enforcement authorities are obliged to use the powers conferred on them by law and to ensure the law and order guaranteed by the Constitution in Ukraine. ” Signatures of the heads of nine MP groups and factions
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u63	Houbsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich. The next one is Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u64	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[constituency 196, Cherkas region]] Dear colleagues! The 2003 budget should largely provide us with a foundation for rapid economic growth and the solution of strategically important problems in Ukraine. Because we understand very well that we today, including the social orientation of economic policy. And the State budget should be the first step in this direction. How, then, does the State Budget project meet these requirements? First question. The government predicts leaving a minimum wage of 165 dollars. This is a very, they say, negative moment in declared social policy. Under conditions where the minimum wage will be even less than the minimum wage. Secondly, this contradicts the annual message of the President of Ukraine to Parliament. And thirdly, it goes against the projected rather high macroeconomic indicators. So either there's an unwarranted increase in macroeconomic performance, or there's a claim that the level of pay needs to be increased. Because if we continue to move at this pace, we will never overcome the worst problem of poverty. I'm absolutely sure, and our MP group supports that the minimum wage in the first half of the year should be 171 bracelets and in the second half 342 bracelets. No less. Next. Financing education. We know very well that education is the basis for the intellectual development of the state. What about taking care of teachers? In all districts, it is always said that article 57 in its entirety is question number one. How does this work out in the draft budget? Unfortunately, there is no solution. Next question. For one thing, rural schools are not provided with access to the treasures of the world’s civilization, the Internet, and computer technology. Again, for the second year, we are talking about the need to start financing the computerization of rural schools, which is the year where copies are made. In 2002, $30 million -- not even $2 million. Where is justice, how do we think about our future? Financing science and fundamental research. Once again, 0.2 percent of the funding of the Academy of Sciences is bad. Let's think about at least 1 percent. I'm not saying that, let's say through education, 16 percent, there's a drop in funding for fundamental research, and 29 percent for science and technology. From all of this, the significant drawback of the budget project is that the level of growth in the economy and revenue of the State budget is inadequate. For example, real GDP growth in the conservative direction is 4 percent, and budget expenditure is reduced by 9.5% and 6.6, taking into account inter-budget transfers. Of course, the big reason here is tax evasion. And the question is, this year, for example, the understatement in the first half of the year: NAC Naftogaz - 1.5 billion, Energoate - 1.2 billion. So minus 2.7 billion. Who is responsible for this? What managers are so controlling that today is minus 2.7 billion? Pensions people ask. So let them go out there and tell us where the money is coming from, and not today we're going to be responsible for the fact that we're voting, and then the money isn't going to be taxed. And in general, more broadly speaking, today in the Supreme Council, together with the draft budget, we need to consider balanced draft laws that foresee tax changes, the responsibility for inefficient management of state enterprises, because private structures, when taxes are not paid, have criminal responsibility. Who's in charge of the state? But that is complete irresponsibility. Our conclusion is that. The draft budget needs to be thoroughly worked out, taking into account our observations. And only after a substantial revision can we talk about its acceptance. And we're willing to work constructively with the government if it takes our proposals seriously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u65	The word is given to Silent Paul Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u66	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you. Gennady Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues! People say you'll only get used to the bad life as it gets worse again. I'm only going to touch the spheres of culture. I'm not going to go through this in depth, I'm just going to go over the surface of those articles that are foreseen in the next year's draft budget. If we all know well about the state of national culture, that it is in a terrible, neglected state, that there is a residual principle, and only by this principle do we want to create an appropriate national, social, national environment, then, understandably, by this principle, we will have only a criminal state and we will be surprised if in the next election a large number of voters vote like in France, where 11 percent voted in the last election for trots that were not on the lists, or in Argentina, where the elections last December were held and 5.5 percent voted for Ben Laden, who was not on the lists. Don't be surprised! We need to talk about real things and we need to set priorities. So when I look at the government pushing a half billion dollars into debt to miners, as if created in the budget, I'm asking this question here: where did they come from, how did they form this budget, what was the principle used in distributing these funds, that these one-and-a-half billion were then flowing to nowhere? And then we see methane explode, mines explode, lava flows. And why is that so? But because a group of people have usurped the right to distribute these funds, another group has the right to implement products, and then we're wondering, why is there no money for culture? Why? We know where they are. If we have three times as many as we need, militias, and we witness every day when we watch Magnolia, that children are being kidnapped, that adult people disappear, who are being protected by the militia? Look at the cost! Special units have already been created to protect certain individuals — governors, certain clans. So I'd like the government to look at it if we're talking about a real budget: where we can take it and flip it. Therefore, the issue of culture and the spiritual atmosphere of Ukraine is certain. And I'd like to at least keep the positions that were in this year. Because this year, you know, culture is funded by only 60 percent. At the end of the year, people were either underachievers or underachievers. If this scheme, proposed by the government, works next year, you can put a cross on Ukrainian culture, in Ukrainian perspective, in the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We still have 14 people on the list. Of these, four are factions, three are committees. Maybe we'll hear four of the factions, three of the committees, then give the word to the Prime Minister, then give the final word to the minister and head of the committee, if they want, and finish the consideration of the matter? Or should we just give the word to the Prime Minister? Dear National Deputies! Let's do it this way: give the word to the Prime Minister and get it over with. There's no objection. The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u68	Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear national MPs, colleagues, friends! I thank you for being able to speak. Joint tasks: together on the basis of a shared responsibility to form a quality, balanced, real state budget, a small financial constitution for 2003. I would like to stress in particular that in a situation in which the economy of Ukraine is developing, it is very important not to see the rise in gross domestic product or production volumes, but to work to shape all the quality characteristics that determine the competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy and the potential for improving the well-being of Ukrainian citizens. So I propose that at all stages of the budget process, we focus not only on the distribution of income, but also primarily on creating favourable conditions for industrial development, for entrepreneurship, for creating new jobs. [[The government will do everything for it.]] And including directing our experience, the intelligence to form an income part of Ukraine's State Budget, which, both in the current year and in the 2003 project, does not correspond to the size of Ukraine's economy and the depth of the socio-economic problems. We hope that you have taken note of the government's proposal to consider and adopt a list of legislative acts that allow us to increase the amount of income in the budget by at least 3.5 billion dollars. First of all, by improving the administration of taxes on added value, income tax, excise policy, severe smuggling, shadow schemes, the need to lower the level of taxation of citizens' income as an incentive to reduce the shadow economy and increase the capacity of the internal market, the order of huge amounts of benefits that have neither social nor economic justification. I am sure that this will be a very serious step both to increase the income of the budget and to address on this basis the serious, systemic problems of the coal sector, the agro-industry complex, to increase the level of social protection of citizens and to develop attitudes such as health, education, culture. And we invite everyone to work professionally and in principle in these ways. And the second block that I'd like to draw our attention to with regard to further cooperation on the State Budget project. These are the issues that determine Ukraine's potential for decent integration into the economic and political world system. The need to increase investment, innovative ingredients is involved. The vast and moral and physical wearout of the core funds, the need for technical, technological upgrading of the industries of the economy of Ukraine requires us to work in a very coordinated way to strengthen investment, innovative components of state policy. [[Of course, along with the National Bank]] And we propose, as part of the budgetary process, to consider at a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Bank, the question of increasing the efficiency and quality of the innovative, investment components of Ukraine's development, the approximation of the banking system to the real economy, of course, on market terms. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues, my friends! The government is set up for cooperation, and we all need to understand that in a timely manner, a real, high-quality, balanced State budget is a very important factor in enhancing Ukraine's competitiveness as a state. I thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-24-m1.u69	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. Dear National Deputies! The discussion of the submitted draft of the Budget for 2003 has been completed. Once again, I want to remind you of the position of the Budget Code, there are a few nuances. If we make our proposals to the ordinary draft laws in the second reading, with regard to the draft State Budget Act, the proposals are made before the first reading. The Budget Committee is now adopting the draft State Budget Act for 2003 and is starting to work on it. And every MP, every group, every faction, every committee can make their proposals to a profile budget committee, but by October 1. After October 1st, proposals cannot be accepted. So work out, make suggestions, the budget committee will generalize and submit for the first reading. We'll call it a day. The plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m., and we will consider the matter according to the agenda. Thank you all.
