ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:02:22]] Registered -374 374 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Diminian Peter Petrovich from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine". In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I ask the factions and groups to submit their statements, and in the meantime, if there is no objection, I will announce the parliamentary requests that have come. Dear colleagues, before the parliamentary requests are announced, allow me to have pleasant information. Today is the day of the birth of Ukrainian National Deputies Dmitry Vladimirovich and School Andrija Vasilovich. Let's welcome them and wish them well. [[Applause]] A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: the Pavlovski National Deputy to Prime Minister Janukovic of Ukraine in response to a previous request for the lack of funding of the Ministry of Education and Science for the implementation of the curriculum for the publication of textbooks for higher education. I'll bet you a vote on this request, please. [[10:04:34]] For 155 Decision taken. Oh, yes, dear colleagues, this is the first request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We hope that we will receive full and complete answers to our questions. Request the National Deputy Kirilczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscoun, for illegal acts, violations of human rights and political persecution of citizens in the course of the investigation by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:05:26]] For a hundred and Decision taken. National Deputies Groups: Assadcheva, Zagreva, Shirko and others to Prime Minister Yanukovic of Ukraine to carry out the mandate of Prime Minister of Ukraine to refer a group of Ukrainian national deputies to Ukraine since 12.11.02. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:06:01]] For-138 Decision taken. Georgia Kruczkova to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the introduction of the Ukrainian National Deputies to the documents adopted at the meeting of the "Ukraine-NATO" in Prague. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Even though I've introduced you, let's make it official. [[10:06:31]] For-162 For 162, the decision is made. Anatolia Kozlowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the measures envisaged by the State Budget for the Gasification of Populations and the elimination of the environmental consequences of the situation in the Pervomaj region of Mikolai. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:03]] For 124 For - 124, the decision is made. Anatolia Orzhachovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of the Ukrainian Land Code by the Red Caban Association of the Calanchi region of the Herson region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:07:32]] For 131 For -131, the decision is made. Vladimir Petrenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the old timetable of the 608 Sumi-Kyiv train, which worked until June of this year. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:01]] For 133 For - 133, the decision is made. Andrija Shkila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the placement of the Consulate General of the Foreign State in one headquarters commanding the western direction of Ukraine's foreign troops. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:32]] For-96 For 96, the decision is made. Istwana Hajudesh to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing status of the Zakartat region in 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:00]] For-96 To 96. Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the debt he paid to help families with their children. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:09:27]] For-141 To - 141. Decision taken. Ludmila Kirichenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of Cabinet of Ministers Order 1205 of 19 September 2001 on privatization in the coal sector and the National Coal Program. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:10:00]] For-127 For - 127. Decision taken. Vladimir Zubanov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation and the Hartzi machine factory and the responsibility of those responsible for the bankruptcy of the enterprise. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:10:30.]] For-100 For -100. Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the lack of complete information, the full response to the parliamentary appeal regarding the conditions of nonrefoulement from Kazakhstan’s Republic of Kazakhstan and the invocation of responsibility. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:07]] For-142 For -142. Decision taken. Victor Mironka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation by the Prosecutor's Office of the Lenin district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:33]] For 121 For 121, the decision is made. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the abuse of office, other acts that fall under the auspices of the leaders of the Provincial District Administration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:12:07]] For 214 For 214. Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the facts of the persecution of the internal affairs of citizens by political motives, particularly the participants in the action "Resurrection, Ukraine!".. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:37]] For a hundred and For a hundred and Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine for failure to execute the ruling of the Kyiv Regional Court of Voice and the Court of Appeal of Kiev for the renewal of the post of Chief of the Scadovian Seaport of the Hersonian region of Bokshi, Ivan Ivanovich. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:14]] For 155 For 155. Decision taken. For the performances. Let's move on to factions with applications, queries, messages. 45 minutes, respectable colleagues. To speak from the Communist faction of Ukraine, Sergio Petrovich Gmiri, a national deputy, gives the floor to the Communist faction. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The other day, I took a close look at the statement by the President of Ukraine on hunger in Ukraine from the 32 to 33 years, and I had a few questions. Question one. Leonid Danilovich spoke in his statement about the victims of the communist regime. I've come to the impression that this is said by a former dissident who, prior to his resignation, is giving up the results of a long-standing fight against communism. And I was so surprised that I went back to biographical data. Well, you all know them, they're true, and the President's resigning seems like he's not leaving. Why does the President make such statements in such a form? Question two. Leonid Danilovich said something about lessons for future generations. Leonid Danilovich, what future generations in Ukraine. Half a million people die in our country every year? With your rule in our country, there is no future. Question three. In Kuchma's speech, cynically, there was a sudden speculation about the tragic events in our history, which were condemned by the Communist Party back in 1989. From 7 million to 10 million victims, called this Kuchma figure, everyone knows that they've been exaggerated ten times, this figure is exaggerated. But that's not even what I'm talking about. It's kind of like a humanoid logic. Clearly, many people have died. It turns out, if less than 7 million, it's not like it's a tragedy anymore. There's speculation in numbers, and it's scary. Dear colleagues! Leonid Kuchma spoke of genocide in his statement. Well, everyone knows that this genocide is against a group of people for some reason, it was meant to be genocide against the Ukrainian people. Please tell me, in the villages where people were dying, only Ukrainians were dying, or were there Russians, there were Poles, there were Jews? It's another attempt to argue with our neighbors, another attempt to cynically speculate on our history. Respectable comrades! This can't be allowed in any way. One more question. Why do you have to do all this? I'll answer that question. This is necessary to cover up the crime of the current regime in order to cover up the failures in the internal and foreign policies that we have. The people are hungry. The people are in a country that is not heated and will have to be held accountable. Respectable comrades! Not before the Americans will have to answer, not before foreigners, but before their people the people of Ukraine, and this people will ask why the President is not starving with him, why people are starving, and Leonid Kuchma in luxury apartments on the 4th floor of the Administration building continues this mockery of the people. And that's what you're gonna have to answer for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u3	From the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko has the word Alexander Turchinov. Prepare John Stepanovich Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! The final appointments of government officials strongly indicate that the regime, feeling the inevitability of its collapse, has reached the final distribution of Ukraine. Our nation, its strategic objects, budgetary resources, communications, and all administrative resources are mercilessly used and distributed among the immediate surroundings of the President - the environment associated with it by a circular message that should be responsible for crimes against its own people. The government is preparing to fight violently for its own existence, the fight against democracy, against human rights, against Ukraine and the civilized world. That's why we're holding an action today, "Get up, Ukraine!" And the fight against Kuchma and his regime is the struggle for democracy, for freedom, for Ukraine. Most of the government that forms such a government is incapable of adopting laws that protect the interests of our citizens, unable to approve an honest and transparent and socially oriented budget, is incapable of being accountable to our people because it has never received a mandate of trust. It will take very little time, and those who today break into pieces of state resources will try to separate themselves from Kuchma and their clan leaders and be reborn as non-party businessmen in major districts, buying voters for stolen funds. That is why so much in this room wants to restore the majority electoral system itself. We must stop reincarnation of political lies and parliamentary fornication. The faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, believes that there are no most of the nine factions today, is the only faction and only party, President Kuchma, who should know by name the whole country. That's why we're starting to print a multi-thousands of copies of the "Black Book" of the personal composition of the parties of the current President, including the names of the responsible employees of the President's Office, the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Tax Administration, the heads of district administrations, and the full composition of the parliamentary majority. Ukraine should know every one of those responsible for the last crimes of the regime so as not to allow it to be reborn under other names, other slogans, and other flags. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u5	John Stepanovich Plush is invited to attend. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u6	Ivan Plush, 209 constituency, Montenegro, Democratic Initiatives. Dear colleagues, I went out to this rostrum not of my own accord, but I was forced to go out by my constituents who couldn't, they understood. They don't seem to want to support the fight, they kind of don't want to fight, but the life they live in makes them do it. And that's why we have to think about who's pulling people out to fight. I'm going to give you a letter so I don't have to be loud. He writes the disabled third group, the liquidator of the Chernobyl family, Lysenko Boris Vasilovich, of the Schniakowka region of Nižin. I'm not going to read what he's describing, the preamble, and he says, "That's why I've decided to ask you for help, because at the moment there's been a life that can't be achieved." What does he do for a living? He wants one that he hasn't been paid Chernobyl benefits since July, I emphasize, since July, and he's in the hospital and he's got nothing to buy. Second thing he writes. His health gave him a pension. He had 189 pennies of the original allowance in our government, which is provided for by valid legislation. He went to Ninja three times, and he was reaching out for these payments, and he has not been paid to this day. Then winter came, he had to burn the house down. He borrowed 295 dollars for fuel, got fuel. So far, no one has returned these fuel benefits to him. And he calculated that the state owed him 1,084 bracelets today. If he were alone, you might think of something to do, but the point is that there are hundreds of thousands of such lawsuits in court today. And where are our bailiffs, who are so quick to implement their decisions, and who are completely unaware of those decisions? That's one example. Another example. They were talking about children here today. Today, there are three areas and the town of Nizhina that are indebted to such categories — many - year - old families with children, families who are paid child support, families under the age of 3, families who are assisted in childbirth, and children under care. Tell me, these four categories of children, what do they want with this half an hour's drive? With the election in the Supreme Council, with governments and so forth? What's in it for them? They hear it every day on radio and television - that's most of it, most of it isn't. They hear the wallets every day, and they'll share. They hear what they are promised every day. And these kids, they don't understand yet, because they're children who were born. I'm done. Excuse me, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And the last. I put in draft regulation 2380 of 11.11, which is that these cities, for example, the town of Nizhin, pay 104 percent by electricity this year, 87 percent by gas. He's been shut down today because he's in debt in previous years, and the state's in debt categories in previous years has been in debt for 4 million. Well, there are, after all, organs in the state that have to be taken care of and taken care of. The explanation for the decision is, I ask you to support this decision, and my statement to form as a parliamentary request for a new government led by Yanukovic Victor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u7	The word is given by the Gurov People's Deputy from the Parliamentary Group of the People's Authority. Get ready for Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Vadim Gurov. Krivbas, the People's Landing Group. We draw your attention to the catastrophic situation in which the current year has seen the incendiary aviation college of civil aviation underexpenditure from the State Budget for Power, Heating and Water, as well as inadequate funding under this article. In college, I'd like to ask your attention, MPs, to train 1,800 students -- future employees of the most prestigious industry in the aviation economy. Among the students, there are 186 out of many children, 460 out of low - income families, 30 orphans, 100 blacks, 472 out of single - parent families, 546 out of western Ukraine. That is, most of them live in a dormitory at the expense of the budget and state aid and attention. The college suffers from shortages in student nutrition, and the funding limits provided for in this article are insufficient, and they do not come fully. What is 1,800 hungry classmates and in a socially and ecologically disadvantaged region like the city of Curve Rig? But an even more painful problem for college is now the payoff for electric and water supply of the dormitory and the entire college as a whole. For the current year, energy spending limits account for about 60 percent of the needs. Not enough funding is provided for colleges in this article and last year. For this reason, from the beginning of the heating season, the college has already shut down electricity twice. A warning has been received that in case of default, the heat will be turned off. The situation may lead to unexpected consequences, catastrophically exacerbating social tension, and not just in college. According to the college’s chief, he will be forced to stop schooling on December 1, this year, and to disband the students in their homes and throughout the heating season. What about orphans living in a dormitory? In this situation, urgent action is certainly needed. I emphasize once again: 500 children, this is West Ukraine, the orphans, they're going to go home for two months, what are they going to do there? I believe that this will be a parliamentary request to our new Prime Minister, and I ask him to put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u9	The national deputy Joseph of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to the presentation. Prepare Gregory Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u10	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of Agriculture Workers' Day, President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine once again declared a colossal success in agricultural reform. We socialists claim that this is a brutal and preposterous lie. The village will impoverish, the people will die, the farms will fall apart, the foundation of the Ukrainian village earth will be destroyed. The most beautiful, the best in the world grow in weeds, and they have not been processed for years. In connection with this year’s organized state, millions of hectares of land remained unsowed at low prices, primarily for bread, unsowed, unsowed. And there are already thousands of farms that have not sown a single hectare of winter this year, and they have not seen a single hectare of land. This is a catastrophe that is being criminally silenced today. Why do I want to draw the attention of the Supreme Council? Understand that a person can be deceived, a people can be deceived, but the earth cannot be deceived. To make sure of this, I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to secure every national deputy in one area, to betray on rubber boots, to appoint two days, and to make sure that the entire Supreme Council passes through our Ukrainian land and is convinced that there is nothing there but mice and weeds in the fields today. Ukraine is being prepared for a new famine -- it's quite obvious. And the Supreme Council, who is silently observing this, is also a participant in this crime. Next. In Kharkiv, according to the signing of the Red Riding Garden, a postcard of the following content is placed in my hands. Listen to her carefully. "Dear citizens! There are 26,000 retirees in the area, 4 and a half thousand disabled persons, 1,000 600 single and other categories of citizens, many of whom are in need of assistance. At the Blackwater Territorial Centre in the area of the beautiful cross society, Rudden Square, 10, items were opened for the collection and realization of items used. [[Bogdan Hmelnicki Street, 13]] If you have clothes, shoes, headgear, children's clothes, household items that you don't need anymore, but which you can use, please bring them to your address." This is an official government announcement that will be developed in Kharkiv, a city of one and a half million. And at this time, we're told about tremendous economic and social progress, and the process of reform is successful, and everything else. I believe that such a card is the verdict of an active system of power and once again confirms that the system of power in Ukraine needs to be changed and the sooner the better. Because if we don't, we're just going to put a dead end to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u11	From the European Choice Group, the word is Gregory Bondarenko. Prepare Vadim Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u12	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! We all know that the Constitution requires changes, additions, so we should welcome the colleagues who have proposed the project. Their legislative perseverance and apostasy deserve special attention. At the same time, we need to keep in mind that the Basic Law should be handled with caution. First of all, a few words about reforming impatience. Remember the honourable, parliamentary-presidential form of power to which we are constantly called, in fact, it was from December 91 to June 96, so first it's good to think and then change. Now for the bill. The antitypical opposition of its authors has shifted to a hundred percent legislative position. The proposed changes and additions are not intended to improve the Constitution, but rather to empower the President to cut his rights. In article 111, for example, it is suggested that the President be removed from office, and I quote, "for violating his oath, for committing treason, or for other crimes." This is political formation, not legal formation. As a result, anything can be reasoned with. If, let's say, we can appreciate the introduction of Ukraine to NATO if, for some politicians, it's treason, for others, it's patriotism. In writing an article on the President’s impeachment, the drafters saw, not the head of state, but the individual. But today's president, your honor, will go in 2004, what then? In the President's chair, maybe. One of us. And finally, it's not about people. The president has to be president, he's elected by the people. Its status, in particular its protection, must be appropriate. Most of the amendments to the proposed bill are dedicated to the Supreme Council and relate to their authority. According to them, parliament should rule in human resources policy, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers should also swear before it. Complementing article 85, paragraph 15, provides that, apart from the Constitution, the personnel weights will also be given to the deputies by law. The authors of the bill seem to have decided to turn the Supreme Council, not into a legislative body, but rather a large political office or a dictatorial colporteur. The MPs complained real. The Supreme Council is not supposed to announce the impeachment to the President, and he cannot dissolve it. The bill deals with this problem, but how? To remove the President, all you have to do is want it. Parliament remains an impenetrable rock, as is still the case. Article 94 of the bill proposes to beat the Presidential veto by 250 votes, not 300. How now? Parliamentary-presidential disputes need, as is known, an exceptional one. ‘ Reasonableness. We're being pushed into thoughtlessness. And this selects the 250, not the current one. Better yet, it is a more eloquent figure, and the audience in the hall remembers it very well. The European Choice Group proposes to reject the proposed bill. The Committee on Legal Policy should present another balanced and clearer one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u13	From the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine" the word is Vadim Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For the faction deputies. The development of small and medium-sized businesses is an extremely important priority in economic policy. We believe that socio-economic growth in Ukraine is impossible without liberal reforms in the economy, deregulation and simplification of business rules in this sector. Without effective protection of small and medium-sized businesses from civil seduction and criminal offenses. In today’s crisis, this is or is not the only way to overcome total poverty, to solve the problem of employment, to stimulate business activity. We believe that not only should the State formulate civilised rules for this market sector but it should ensure strict compliance and unconditional enforcement at all levels. As a result, the faction of the political parties of industry and entrepreneurs of Ukraine and Trudova Ukraine supports the position of the President of Ukraine's decree of 13 November 2002 on the personal responsibility of the leaders of central and local authorities and the imposition of disciplinary and administrative responsibilities of public officials in cases of violations of their laws. At the same time, we have been working with the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship for a long time, and we believe that the Committee under the leadership of Alexandra Kugel has been able to formulate a national ideology on the selected sector of the economy. Today we have an approved state programme that can serve as a methodological matrix for regional programs where local specifics and traditions should dominate. The Supreme Council Secretariat is awaiting a review of five bills that are directly related to resolving the problem of endless checks by the supervisory authorities, simplifying the procedure for the registration of entrepreneurial activities and the exit from business. Regulatory policy, microcredit optimization, tax simplification. We welcome and support the legislative initiative of the State Committee on Regulatory Policies of Entrepreneurship to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides for the imposition of criminal responsibility on government officials for demanding donations from entrepreneurs to various charitable funds. However, it is only by means of regulatory policies that we do not pick up the transfer. Small and medium -sized businesses will not develop without the financial support of the state. Is it not paradoxical that, year after year, the state is destined to increase the entanglement of the employment fund and to save its citizens poorly in the business activity of its citizens? For comparison. In the last year, $1 billion,400 million and only 2 million in small businesses have been allocated to unemployment payments. If this employment fund money were to be refocused on the introduction of educational programs -- I conclude -- to give people basic knowledge of how to act in the process of legalizing their own entrepreneurial initiative, how to protect their rights, it would be much more beneficial. On the basis of the foregoing, our faction considers it necessary to initiate the question of State support for small and medium-sized enterprise development in Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council in the form of parliamentary hearings, with the participation of the government and the heads of district government administrations, in order to take comprehensive and effective decisions based on the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, all who applied to speak from factions and parliamentary groups, took the floor. With regard to the questions raised in your speeches, we will prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, I'd like to vote on another request made by the National MP, he's formed, the national deputy of Gurvo, for the Crevice Aviation College. A whole group of national deputies signed it. Is there no objection? I'll bet on. Please note, vote. I am voting for a request from Prime Minister Yanukovic for urgent financial support for municipal services to the Crimson Aviation College of Civil Aviation. Please vote, Your Honor. The question is serious, please support. [[10:40:41]] For-166 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the issues scheduled for Tuesday’s meeting schedule. I'm announcing a draft of the Terrorism Act. The Special Committee proposes the following rules of procedure: presentations with a report and a report within 10 minutes each; answers to questions within 5 minutes, discussions within 10-15 minutes. Is there no objection? Out of procedure, please, National Deputy Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm on my way. Since the project was introduced by the President of Ukraine, he is designated the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Vladimir Radchenko. I'm a reporter defined by the President, the subject of the legislative initiative, and I don't see it in the hall. How can we proceed to consider this issue if the President has not received any other legislation that he would replace with a designated rapporteur? So the head of the Ukrainian Security Service himself has no right to replace the exclusive powers of our President.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I think this is what we're going to find out, because in the morning, I was prepared with suggestions on what Vladimir Illich Pristajko will report. Let us begin our consideration of the issue and make an appropriate commission so that we clearly adhere to the established rules for the submission of bills. Your point is right, it's right. Reported a deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Vladimir Ilchi Pristajko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, on November 4th, the President sent a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in which this question is determined as to what I am to report. Maybe Vladimir Mikhailovich wasn't able to report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u19	I just haven't seen it yet. We will now find out these details. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u20	To carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine, an inter-ministerial working group has developed a draft law on the fight against terrorism. Taking into account the escalation of terrorism in the world and the rise of its immediate threat of the spread of terrorism in Ukraine, a set of organizational practical and regulatory measures is being introduced at the national level. As it is known, with the aim of coordinating such measures by ministries and authorities, as well as other central executive bodies, an anti-terrorist centre was established by the decree of the President of Ukraine of 11 December 1998 at the Ukrainian Security Service. The practice of the anti-terrorist centre and its regional structures has shown that the State has a fairly effective counterterrorism system. Yet its further improvement is restrained by the absence of a special law to combat terrorism. Acting legislation in the field of counter-terrorism regulates the liability for preparation and the commission of specific criminal acts that constitute a terrorist act. That is, article 258 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine or related to it, so - called crimes of terrorism. This is article 112, 147, 258, 260, 443, and 444 of the Criminal Code. At the same time, there is a whole set of reasons, conditions, and factors that can contribute to the emergence and spread of terrorism, as a socio-political phenomenon and the commission of terrorist acts, as a specific crime. The law that is proposed removes this significant legal gap by regulating, inter alia, the legal and organizational basis for combating terrorism, the legal definition of terrorism as an international crime, as well as criminal crime, including its variety, purpose and basic principles of combating terrorism, authorization, entities directly engaged in the fight against terrorism, their rights and duties, the involvement of the main forces and means of carrying out an antiterrorism operation. There is also regulation of the activities of executive authorities, businesses, organizations, institutions, independent of the forms of ownership and their officials regarding the detection and elimination of causes and preconceives to terrorism. A mechanism for coordinating the activities of executives involved in the fight against terrorism, the rights and duties of responsible officials, the legal and social protection of those involved in counterterrorism and those affected by the act of terrorism is envisaged. Taking into account the latest developments in the world today, the need for careful, early preparations for counterterrorism measures has also become urgent in order to ensure maximum organization and efficiency in their implementation. In this context, the law is as specific as possible, there is a possibility of some maneuvering by forces and means under the predetermined, projected, reliable development of events, the principle of unity in the organization, and the conduct of an antiterrorist operation. Scientists from the National University of Kiev, Taras Shevchenk, the Institute of State and the Law of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Ukraine, the Juridical Academy of Ukraine, and experts from other leading institutions and educational institutions in Ukraine participated in the drafting of the law. Following comments and suggestions, the project is in agreement with the ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch. The law takes into account positive developments in the experience of other countries, such as antiterrorism laws adopted in the Russian Federation, Western European countries, and the United States. Today, more than 150 countries and anti-terrorist organizations are governed by the International Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing, which provides for the active application of international sanctions, including the freezing of assets belonging to terrorists, the expansion of the exchange of information between countries, and so on. The draft law gives considerable attention to the organizational bases and mechanism for conducting an anti-terrorist operation, which, to this day, in the absence of a special law, is defined by a directive approved jointly by the Ministry, other central executive authorities that carry out concerted anti-terrorist activities in the anti-terrorist centre system in Ukraine's security service. Taking into account the global trend towards intensifying and deepening cooperation on the counter-terrorism front, the bill contains provisions regulating Ukraine's relations with other states in this area. A separate chapter of the bill deals with the question of how to redress the damage caused by the terrorist act and the social rehabilitation of the victims. The law also provides for responsibility for engaging in terrorist activities, controlling and overseeing the fight against terrorism. The project provides for amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of the fight against terrorism, which will allow for the expansion of the authority and capacity of state authorities to combat terrorism. Gaining the validity of the Act will allow, without additional financial costs, effective measures to counter terrorist acts in the State. The law will have a preventive action, will promote the credibility of our state in the international arena and strengthen their status as both a State that takes measures to prevent, detect and halt terrorist activities at both national and international levels. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Five minutes. On the board, please. Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction. Yes, please, Leukko Lukyanenko, the faction of Julia Timoshenko’s block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u22	Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko block, Leukko Lukyanenko Vladimir Illich, I'd like to hear some answers from you. Well, first of all, what is the difference between political terrorism and other forms of terrorism? The second question, these other types of terrorism, what are they? I'd like you to clarify that. And then this. What are the types of nonpolitical terrorism that are not provided for in the Criminal Code and why a new law should be passed, rather than complementing the Criminal Code, if there are such illegal acts that fall within the scope of terrorism and are not yet included in the Criminal Code? I will be very grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u23	Dear Leveko Grigorovich, thank you very much for the few questions. In the law we tried, I mean the members of the working group, to identify the most common types of terrorism, and notice, here's the definition of terrorism, there's the notion of that in science, in the subject. [[International terrorism, technological terrorism, can be said of information terrorism and others]] There is such scientific discipline, called terrorism, which is a discipline that examines all issues related to terrorism. There are many of these definitions in this science, but among definitions of more than a hundred, one hundred, nine, in particular, 95 percent is a political component, that is, really not everything that is defined by terrorism is political terrorism. We're currently looking at Dnipropetrov's criminal, specific criminal case, where the investigation and the prosecutor's office agreed that it was known, it had an announcement when the device was destroyed in the trolleybus. The investigation qualified this as terrorism, and the court disagreed and qualified it as another article. Because of this, there are certainly other types of terrorism along with political terrorism. As far as it is concerned, is there a need to enact a law on the fight against terrorism? In general, terrorism, as we know, is a broad concept and a socio-political phenomenon. And that's why this law, which the President proposed, defines a range of issues that could be addressed by methods of combating terrorism. And the Criminal Code provides responsibility for the specific actions of this same terrorism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u24	National Deputy Ostrash, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear reporter! The Grigorisin incident suggests that we can inspire any serious incidents, including terrorist acts. And this could turn into a fight, say, with political opponents, with our entrepreneurs and so on. For example, the law on change states that they are entitled, for example, to take action to combat terrorism. have the right, the Security Services, to receive, at the written request of the Head of Authority or even the Ukrainian Security Service, from financial, customs and other enterprises, institutions and organizations, irrespective of the form of ownership information, transaction documents, state of accounts, movement of funds and so on. The same applies to requests for information on the Supreme Council systems, the Attorney General’s Office, Nazbank, the Antimonopoly Committee, the State Property Fund, and so on. Still, would it not be better to do so through the courts or at least to make a request here that it could only be the head of the Security Service his written request? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u26	Dear Igor Ivanovich! Article 14 of the law begins with the following paragraph: "An anti-terrorist operation is carried out only because there is a real threat to the safety of citizens or to the constitutional system, which is otherwise impossible to eliminate." That is, the law provides for specific mechanisms, specific elements, when it is not possible to allow a broad interpretation of the application of this law. I fully agree with you that we're going to have to work on the second reading, and that's what our committee work showed, that we're already working on the working group on those comments, and that's right, your comments, we got on the committee. And I think that by the second reading, all the comments will be taken into account and clarified by the working group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u27	Vladimir Illich, thank you, time's up. Thank you. George Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the National Security and Defence Committee, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Our committee considers it necessary to adopt a law on the fight against terrorism, and it is possible to adopt a bill introduced by the President, which was presented here by Vladimir Ilchi Pristajko. At the same time, the committee discussed a number of important comments that we believe should be taken into account when preparing the document for second reading. The main points are that of the following. First. It is hardly true that terrorism is defined only as politically motivated activities. When bandits take the plane, make hostages of its passengers and crew, demand money and bring it to another state, without making any political demands -- it's also terrorism. Regrettably, the emphasis on political motives seen through this document may pose a threat to repression against political opposition in the fight against terrorism. This should be avoided. The other one. The bill should be better aligned with valid legislation. This is also true of the definition of terrorism that I was talking about. This also applies to the legal regime in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation, the possibility that the Constitution does not provide for restrictions on the rights and freedoms of citizens and the participation of the Armed Forces in anti-terrorist operations, since such participation is not provided for in article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine or in the laws of Ukraine. And a number of other positions. Third. It raises doubts about the proposal to amend a number of valid laws in connection with the adoption of this legal act. Four. In our view, some very important provisions of the bill need to be clarified. Article 3, for example, defines the notion of "terrorist" as a random choice by terrorists of direct victims. In many cases, however, victims are not chosen by accident, but it is thought out in advance, such as during a recent very serious attack in Moscow. For example, I will note that the bill does not even mention or state in any way that you will not notice the capture of hostages by the terrorists, which today has become an almost indispensable component of the terrorist acts that have been carried out. Article 7 on the involvement of the Ministry of Defence in anti-terrorist activities speaks of local armed conflicts inspired outside Ukraine, as well as external aggression. What it is, it's not exposed, and then it could be anything. It is unlikely that the formula for the Cabinet of Ministers as the main entity in charge of the fight against terrorism and providing it with resources, resources, and resources. It raises doubts about the proposal to include in the law part two of article 31, which deals essentially with the possibility of allowing troops of other states' armed forces to enter Ukraine in the fight against terrorism. Article 12 of the bill contains a detailed list of prohibitions on the promotion of terrorism, but does not indicate what sanctions should be imposed for violating those prohibitions. Article 19 is, in our view, it's better to spell out, not "Conducting talks with terrorists," but "Conventions for such negotiations," and write them more clearly, taking into account the experience gained in this matter in other countries, bitter experience. In the Preamble and in article 2 of the bill, we would like to strengthen the international dimension of the fight against terrorism. Adequate observations are made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, particularly regarding guarantees of the financial and social status of those affected by the terrorist act. It's a very sharp and difficult question. In this regard, I would like to say that for days there has been a bill in the Supreme Council, introduced by our colleague, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hinzburg, on the status and social status of citizens who have suffered as a result of a terrorist or diversion. Perhaps it would be useful to consider including this project in a bill that we are currently considering. And the last. When the bill is being drafted, it is appropriate to get to know and take more fully into account the experience of legislative regulation of the fight against terrorism in other countries, particularly the Russian Federation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Federal Assembly adopted on November 1st additions to some of the bills and regulated the media restrictions on anti-terrorist operations. The proposed text of our bill is practically in line with what was written in the Russian Federation. But you know what it was there that caused a sharp reaction to all of this. We also need to look very carefully at this and take into account the drafting of the bill. Taking into account the proposal made on behalf of the committee to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u29	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Is there a question for the speaker? Please sign up and explain. Please sign up. Yes. Boris Ilchi Olinik, please. Lighten up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u30	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich, you have clearly defined, say, the plane of this law and I agree, I sign under every word. The only thing that would have to be said to Vladimir Ilyi is what you've been focusing on is the overthrow of political parties. It's very dangerous. And this law needs to be passed, at least so that the supers who commit State terrorism don't get hurt, you know who I have in front of me. And after the September 11th terrorist attack, as you've noticed, in the United States, the human rights abuses that they're advertising for have gone directly. Yesterday a new institution was created that would essentially follow even the intimate lives of Americans. I don't think we're going to follow their pattern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u31	Thank you very much, Boris Iliju, for your support. I completely agree with what you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u32	National Deputy Ostrash, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u33	Igor Ostas, "Our Ukraine" faction, Stryski, Drogobicki, Jewish districts. Please pass the word to the deputy from "Our Ukraine" to Mr. Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u34	Please turn on Chubarov's microphone, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u35	Dear George Korniyovich, I also personally welcome the very idea of the need for a law on the fight against terrorism. At the same time, and this needs to be said openly, such a law should not restrict human rights, sorry for tautology, to the rights to defend their rights in such forms. in which this is provided by the Constitution of Ukraine, by international acts. Do you not think that there are so many commonly defined norms in this project that can be interpreted to refer to different political events in order to impose that those events or the protection of rights have such a terrorist tone? And one last question. Let's say there's a rule about creating conditions for a terrorist act. Do you not feel that there should be a norm for leading people or religious organizations to such desperate acts? What do you mean, the standard of proof? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u36	The second question, frankly, is that I didn't quite grasp what you mean, and how do you write it, is that it leads people to some state of terrorism. This, I think, is probably something wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u37	There's a first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u38	And the first question. I completely agree with you. And remember, that's what I've been up against since the beginning of my report. And what you're saying is that, in fact, people can lead to a state like this when they go to terrorism is not an excuse for terrorism itself. We've seen this in recent events in Moscow. Cruelty is manifested. And she can't be excused.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u39	Turn on the microphone of Deputy Chubarov for proof.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u40	Georgi Korniyovich, I agree with you. I'm getting out of this, too, but, you know, there's got to be some responsibility. Let's say a man doesn't pay there, well, he'll pay for, well, there's a child's allowance, and a man goes from despair to some act -- he burns himself up, but he does some damage. We have these cases. Is there someone here to answer for what a person has come to?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u41	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u42	Rephat, of course, should be responsible, but when a person burns himself, it is not a terrorist act.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u43	Yes, National Deputy Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u44	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I have a question like that. Our scientists come from the fact that terrorism is a criminal activity that turns out to be a intimidation of the population and of the criminal agenda. Please tell me, is it possible to apply the bill or the law that will be passed to those who have intimidated? To prosecutors, to law enforcement officials, who are the front of the "Resurrection, Ukraine" campaign. invited the authorities to their offices and intimidated people into not going to the rally, and the law enforcement officers stopped the cars and returned to Kiev. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u45	These are unacceptable actions, but they have nothing to do with this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u46	National deputy of the School, faction of the Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u47	National Deputy School, Timoshenko Block faction, UNA-UNSO. I would like to ask you a simple question, Your Honor, do you believe there is terrorism in Ukraine? Right, I know the answer: he's gone, but he might be. Let's prepare a law on drought control, on samoum, on pasta, on monsoons. They are not in Ukraine, but they may be, they may come, anything can happen. It seems to me that this problem is sucked out of my finger. And your attitude, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u48	Dear colleague, of course, if we close our eyes now and close our ears, we can say that nothing is threatening us. We live in a world where terrorism has become one of the greatest dangers. And we will be provided to the extent that this calamity does not touch us, we are obliged, and such a law is being created.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u49	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u50	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Georgi Korniyovich, please tell me, for me, the need to develop legal principles for combating terrorism and to create preconditions for the fulfilment of Ukraine's international obligations in relation to the fight does not call into question. The current status of this bill is high. Please tell me, did your committee, the profile committee, consider in the process of discussing this bill the pros and cons of the relevant anti-terrorist legislation of the Russian Federation? You know what they're about to do, and colleagues have been asking the right questions, they're going to come up with colossal issues, the issue of the legal field itself with regard to the use of anti-terrorist actions. Are the benefits and downsides of similar, similar legislation, such as the Russian Federation, taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u51	In the drafting of this bill, its author took into account the experience of both the Russian Federation and other states. During the discussion, of course, we meant what is happening in Russia. There are different issues: the political plan, there is a legal plan. In the right direction, what you can use is used and maybe something else will be used. Politically, you know that we don't affect these problems in Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u52	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The first to be discussed was Carmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine". Please. The next is Zvaric, the faction of Ukraine. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity" Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honourable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. What we are offered today. It has been an honor for me from this high rostrum three years ago to convince you that a law on criminal responsibility for combating terrorism must be passed. The first time you didn't support the bill, then you supported it -- the President vetoed it, although it was obvious to everyone that terrorism was on the rise. Then we adopted the Criminal Code, where there is the most perfect form of a terrorist act -- a concept -- today we have a draft law. Good Law or Bad Law? I'll tell you what, Vladimir Illich, I've known you for a long time, but today I couldn't sleep after again, once again, and once again, a detailed reading of this law. And I'm going to share with you the impressions that I couldn't sleep from. I couldn't sleep because this law applies double terminology, double usage. I couldn't sleep because this law does not provide for any public control, it removes, in general, parliamentary control, which is organized crime, the fight against organized crime. You and I are asked to approve the law, and in the first reading, this is the concept, this is the ideology of the law, and the ideology of the law is, in addition to the Constitution, also refers to the acts of the President, the Kabmin and other legal acts. This is the first article. The concept of terrorism is introduced, which is a "high" with the finger of some of the scientists. The concept of "terrorist crime" includes: assault on the life of a national or a public official, hostage-taking, knowingly false reports of a security threat, assault on the life of a foreign national, illegal use of the Red Cross symbol. And I want to ask you, the idea of what it's meant to be, it's not a terrorist act aimed at committing these crimes. Keep going. Next, I want to draw your attention to the fact that we are in this law, in the last transitional positions, we write, "to amend the laws of Ukraine according to the additions." And there's also a bomb. And it's over. There is no terrorist act, and in Ukraine there is already a fight against terrorism, Vladimir Illich, look carefully here, the honourable national MPs, already fighting terrorism. There are eagles in Ukraine, using these A-letter security cards, and then it's written, "used by a special unit to combat terrorism and protect members of criminal justice. Ladies and gentlemen, no terrorism, no counter-terrorism unit, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm against the ideology of such a law. The law needs to be transformed into a stage of ideology. Because if we speak politically motivated actions, this state ends badly. I would not like that very much, but I would like to see terrorism treated as a criminal offence. And to the end. All right, I'm done. Dear George Korniyovich! You said the experience of the Russian Federation was taken into account. I saw this in the law, where I saw the right to make a personal decision about a person’s life — that disgraceful experience of the Russian Federation when they shot the sleeping people. What are we doing? Come on, let's get a hold of ourselves. We cannot replace ourselves with the Lord God who gives life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u54	Thank you. The National Deputy Zvaric, the "Our Ukraine" faction, is invited to the address. Prepared for Paul’s day. All speakers please be informed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u55	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Unlike my colleague from the faction, I am about to speak in favor of this law. As far as I am concerned, its relevance does not give rise to any doubt. And in order to refute the claim that there is no terrorism in Ukraine, I point out that only in the last two years has there been a case under article 258 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which provides for the punishment for terrorist acts in 560 cases, of which 90 have been killed, and 15 of those 90 have been representatives of the authorities. Therefore, specific objective facts show that this law is necessary. And by the way, not to repeat things like they did in Moscow, where there was no room for legal settlement of exactly anti-terrorist operations. It seems to me that this law is all the more necessary. What's more, we've ratified three international instruments here with you, dear fellows. I mean, we're talking about international conventions to fight terrorism that predict that we should settle this issue in the legal field here in Ukraine, which is the purpose of this bill. What's more, there's a particular danger going on for us here in Ukraine, too, because if you get to know the work of individual scientists who've been researching this issue for years, everyone will tell you about it, and they'll even document that terrorism doesn't know state borders. So it seems to me that the argument that this law is irrelevant or unnecessary is virtually insufferable to criticism. So the need for legal regulation of anti-terrorist operations and appropriate preventive measures does not, in my opinion, raise any doubt, particularly on the line of restrictions on access to financial flows and sources of financing for terrorist operations. On behalf of this bill, I would like to make a few remarks. First of all, I can't understand why the author of the legislative initiative, in this case, is the President, in his explanatory note, talking about whether he writes that there is no need for additional expenditure from the State budget to implement this law. I'm pointing out that in the United States yesterday, as has already been said here, the Department of Homeland Security and funding for this state department is at $40 billion. It seems to me that if the authorities really want to take the fight against terrorism seriously, there is a need to anticipate specific budget allocations. So I'm going to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, but only if specific budget amounts are included in the 2003 draft of the State Budget will I be willing to support it as a whole. I am also joining what has already been said here regarding the legal clarification of the individual issues involved in this bill. And I urge my colleagues to support him in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u56	Thank you. Members of Parliament, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, are invited to the floor, followed by the national deputy of Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u57	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Pavlovski, Yulia Block Timoshenko I want to speak to you, my dear colleagues, and especially I want to speak to the journalists, and I want to look to the scientists who have drafted this law. I read books, monographs of these institutions, their representatives, and they clearly wrote down the rules or standards that fascism was created in Europe. All right, guys, that's interesting. This law, if adopted as it is, is a straight path to asserting the fascist dictatorial regime in Ukraine. The law is necessary, but there is no need for dictatorship to take a step forward. Therefore, it is very dangerous to adopt this law as a basis. The law, I say, is necessary, but it has to be radically reworked. What is more, when these scientists, the lawyers, wrote, I felt that they had lost consciousness. In the form of a law enforcement technique, it is absurd. Karmazin has already pointed out that it is in article 1 that the President's decrees, the regulations and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are among the laws; it was necessary to state that these acts are for the enforcement of the law, not for him. This is the first, this is a violation of the Constitution. What's more, the President's power is taken away, he has to give authority to all the power structures, and the law is given here. Let's keep going. A special center is being created that has extraordinary powers, even if it says so, all the officials for it are nothing to him, not even the President. I mean, you know where we're going. But the worst thing about this bill is that it's purely political. Notice even the definition of terrorism: it's a highly dangerous politically motivated action, instead of writing "anti-Communityly unsafe action," and then deciphering it by accident or consciously. That's not it. Moreover, we will continue to do so, in the next page, in the next article. The main thing is to track the news of the mussel, so on, look for who is behind the activities of political, religious and other organizations and movements. So this is essentially against the opposition. Moreover, the following article adds to the problems of preserving the constitutional system. I mean, you understand how clearly the standard of opposition is written, and that's what this is all about. That's why we should, and we're talking about citizens' rights, and there's a violation going on everywhere, so this law is very dangerous. And what's more, you know, at all levels, there's an extra structure that needs to be financed, so I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u58	Mikhail Antonovich, how much do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u59	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u60	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u61	Three seconds. So you have to write "in the limits of the existing number and budget security of the BSS," let the unit that's engaged in the fight against the opposition parties do the fight against terrorism. There's no problem. So it's very dangerous to adopt this law, so I'm going to suggest that it be rejected in order to work on it properly. We do not need to under cover of terrorism, as Medvedchuk said yesterday, to assert authority in order for it to be firm, to assert a dictatorship regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u62	Mikhail Antonovich, thank you. The National Deputy Hinzburg, a faction of Communists, is invited to attend. And we're risking it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u63	Ginsburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. If it were my will, and it would ever be, maybe I would hope for it, I'd admit terrorism and lack of heat in the apartments, and cold frozen schools in the countryside, and kindergartens are half hungry, and not paying your salary for three months, and when you get a knock on your door and yell, "Pay for community services, and you don't have any bread." Unfortunately, our time is still ahead. But I have now come to this rostrum to speak of my law, which I have proposed, number 2402, on the status and social protection of citizens who have suffered from terrorism or diversion. And this law under 2402, when I consider today the proposal of Khruchkov, the Supreme Council's ruling or the Supreme Council's draft decree on the adoption on the basis of the law on the fight against terrorism, I propose that we bring these two laws together, my law that guarantees the status and social protection of citizens who have suffered as a result of terrorism, the act of terrorism or diversion, as well as the law on terrorism. These two laws are very similar, complementing each other. I'd like to say today that the main thing and my complement is to a comparative table. The Anti-Terrorist Act, the part that's here, the supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code, operational search and television. And my suggestions will be about television. Can terrorism be combated when terrorism is promoted on television everywhere and everywhere today? We only see blood. Where do we raise our children? There's no morals at all. And I would like to suggest that the main complement to this law should be the upbringing of our young people. That's the main thing. When a person is influenced by the fact that he is involved in the great and the small in his country, in his homeland, when a person is influenced by the fact that he is a friend and a friend, that he will bring up his shoulders in a difficult, difficult situation, when a person is influenced by what you live in a collective, in a great state, and a generation is raised, then the fight against terrorism takes on quite different forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u64	Dear friends, we have completed our consideration of this issue, and the vote will take place on Thursday. Thank you. Let's go to question 09. All right, we're done here, we're taking a risk. We're done for 15 minutes. 0999 and 0998, please. We agreed yesterday on a faction board that this would be a matter of presentation. And the 15-minute report is by Alexander Alexander Moroz, the draft law on changes and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine. This is the arrangement we set for 15 minutes for the report, 15 minutes for the answers to questions. And now let's make a deal, Vasil Fedorovich Sirenko, so 10 minutes for your report and 10 minutes for your question. Less? Five and five. Do you have a deal? And the second report is 0998 - five and five. Please, Alexander Alexander. I'm sorry, turn on Deputy Carmazin's microphone, "Our Ukraine." I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, I'm sorry, distinguished national MPs! You and I have not decided to change the Rules of Procedure. What was decided at the meeting, on the Conciliation Council, is just a recommendation for the Supreme Council. If this recommendation is supported, is there another vote against it? You know, it's always been, so democratic, so it should be. I'm definitely against it. Against such an important issue -- changing the socio-economic system in a state that is now engrossed in by a gang clan, one regional clan, we're just looking at it as a report. I'm definitely against it, and that's why I insist on a different format. So seven minutes is enough for the report, and then we'll give it all up for discussion. We need to hear from the House of People’s Deputies. This is what the Constitution requires. We've never done this before. We'll just have a presentation, and then we'll have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u66	Turn off Deputy Carmazin's microphone. Alexander Alexanderovich, do you have an answer or should I comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u67	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich. During the work of the Conciliation Board yesterday, the issue was discussed there. And it turns out that in part of the factions, MPs don't know the contents of this project, even though it's sent to all the deputies. And that's why it was decided that today we're not considering the issue in fact, today we're just making a presentation, presenting this project to the MPs and the radio listeners who are listening to our broadcast. And I, as a reporter from the committee, answer those questions that will be asked by the MPs. And then all the deputies will work on this project, and all the factions will make the right proposals, they'll make the decisions. We're going to set up a temporary special commission on Thursday to generalize all the proposals, and then we're going to deal with this issue in the procedural order provided by the Rules with the scope of the reports and the answers, the discussion as you propose. Here's a proposition. Therefore, the presentation of the document is not a deviation from the Rules. And that form is also predictable. So I'd like you to support this proposal and not make any claims.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u68	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Let's get to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, we're actually starting to consider one of the most important issues, if not the most important issues over the last five years. This is about changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. And naturally, the question could have been, why would it be 5 years ago, because the Constitution was adopted six and a half years ago? Moreover, many of us who have worked on the Basic Law and voted for it would like it to be permanent for as long as possible, because in a democratic state, the stability of the Constitution means the stability of the country. There is no stability in Ukraine. But the reason for this is not so much in the content of the Constitution as in its failure. Therefore, the need for changes is explained first by the fact that it should provide for mechanisms that would not allow anyone to ignore the Basic Law, which would clearly define the rights and duties of each subject, legal or natural, would not allow ambiguity, arbitrary interpretations, and would not allow anyone to usurp power when it comes to power structures. I want to draw attention to an interesting and instructive detail. Those changes that finally became the subject of consideration were now proposed to me and to those who shared such views ten years ago, and in 1994-1996, after the restoration of the constitutional process, we again tried to implement standards that would ensure a balance of power, as reflected in the transcripts of the meetings of the Supreme Council of that period. It turns out that year after year, it would seem that minor flaws in the parts of the Constitution, as a result of pedaling on them by interested persons, were growing to the extent that they were able to cross out the logic of the Basic Law. And it was during the last five years, and it was brilliant in the elections of 1998, 1999, 2002, known to all of the referendums, the procedures for creating the majority in Parliament now and two years ago. In times of permanent government crisis, the legitimacy of government function, underestimation of regional rights, destruction of self - government organs, and much more. When we impartially, without mentioning specific names, analyze the causes of such violent, timeless debates and small - meaning campaigns, we will find that instability is based on a lack of balance, a lack of harmony of authority. It's basically an imperfect system of power. Not by chance did the President have to talk about the need for political reform, the change of power, even the parliamentary-presidential form of government on 24 August this year. Let us at least make sure that we do not use the definition of forms of organization of state life when discussing this issue. Under certain circumstances, the presidential form of government can be democratic. It's not about that. Our task is to ensure the interrelationship and mutual responsibility of the authorities, transparency of authority, and the primary subordination of the authority of the people, based on the rule of law. This was the aim of the drafters of the bill, which came back with the positive conclusions of the Constitutional Court. Deputies who have carefully read the draft law see that the main changes relate to the relationship in the triangle: President-Government-Parliament. Some may think that this attack on the president, on his rights, is subjective, spoken of as a desire. Again, let us be objective. As early as 1996, when the draft Constitution was being drafted and those responsible for this preparation, I mean Basil Durdinac and the late Alexander Emec came to me as Head of that time, and I asked them not to write the Constitution under the Frost or under the Kuchma, we are temporary people and our temporary duties, let's prepare a draft for the state, because this Constitution should work at any time. So the draft changes to the mandate have now been reviewed, and part of them have moved from the President to the Supreme Council, with regard to the creation of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Central Electoral Commission. The government's functions are substantially strengthened. Indeed, it becomes a higher body of the executive system, including through the complete subordination of all ministers and authorities, except for the BSS, the border and antitrust services, through the direct subordination of local government administrations, the subordination of government. At the same time, this does not create distortions in power, for the government is formed by Parliament, is accountable and controlled in general, and because of the control of every individual official appointed or accepted by the Supreme Council and can be released. That is, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers are bound by shared responsibility. Since the MPs are elected, they are dependent on the electorate, and their activities are encouraged by the pre-election programs of the parties and the blocs and individual deputies, this ensures that the higher executive and legislative authority of the people and the political stability of society are subject to control. In this position of the President with regard to the merger of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, he is given an additional right to dismiss parliament in the event that within 60 days I cannot form the Cabinet of Ministers. In the balance of power, the President becomes the guarantor of this balance, the arbitrator and the instrument of influence on the efficiency of government and parliament. The strong President recommends to the responsible parliament the strong candidature of the Prime Minister — the logic of these changes. The project provides grounds for the formation and rights of the parliamentary majority, individual minority rights, guarantees of the stability of factions and parliamentary groups by strengthening the discipline of deputies, strengthening the monitoring functions of committees and the Chambers of Auditors. It should be borne in mind that the Constitutional Court and our scientific experts make observations on this matter. He said it wasn't exactly the prerogative of the Constitution. And these questions could be settled in a different way. The constitutions of other nations record even more detailed things. However, this proposal can be considered and, during the final consideration of the draft changes to the question of the majority, the minority is referred to the rules of the Rules. This would be perfectly right and would not ruin the whole logic of the changes to the Constitution. The procedure for enacting laws is improving, and it reduces dependence on the subjective factor. Up to 250 votes down the threshold of the veto. It's a perfectly right approach, given that the political structure of society is incomplete and it's a difficult thing to get 300 votes out of a project. People who have not escaped the experience of exercising power in Ukraine may feel that the appointment and release of the prime minister by Parliament’s consent makes the executive power unstable. On the contrary, under such conditions, the government gets, in Russian, "sustainability." The prime minister, based on the majority of deputies, turns himself into a responsible leader. If you'd like, the chancellor's. I turn first to the faction of the People's Democratic Party, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, today's workers, our Ukraine, especially the Party of Regions. You had or have now, as it were, your prime ministers. Tell me, could you help them to protect or control them? Your influence at the moment of the vote on the appointment and all. Furthermore, it depends on the multitude of circumstances that have no bearing on the interests of the faction, the deputies, the interests of the electorate, or the interests of the State. You're mostly people with experience, you have a marked political weight. It turns out that under certain circumstances all of this is worthless. And the moral, organizational, and other costs you have incurred in electoral campaigns are no comparison to the will of an official who affects your position by harassing you in various ways, including fiscal authorities. This is a humiliating situation for many deputies. This is a humiliation of the main source of power, the people. Therefore, this subjective factor should be removed and removed only by linking the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers and the government through the procedure for the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers by Parliament. And how long can this situation continue? Change is needed, only they make the MP, then they only make sense of the consideration and implementation of government programmes, policy principles, socio-economic development forecasts, budgets and so on. In addition, we have a bitter experience of a permanent government crisis in today’s government, unmotivated changes in premiers, instability of power, when the personal dependence of a government official weighs more than its professional qualities. It's completely insane, and it has to be done. Clearly, the termination and commencement of the Cabinet of Ministers is now linked to the term of the Supreme Council, which is a perfectly logical condition for the mutual responsibility of the two branches of power, the phenomenon that has become the most deficient during Ukraine’s years of independence. In addition, with a view to stability, confidence, and confidence, local executives are offered the appointment and release of heads of local governments to conduct the Cabinet of Ministers for the premiere. It's a perfectly logical decision, because the heads of local branch offices are lined up with ministries and departments, so the Cabinet of Ministers. In many aspects of their activities, however, they are fully controlled by the government, and the heads of administration are virtually independent of the Cabinet of Ministers. Artificially contrasting people in executive structures is being created, and dozens and hundreds of conflicts are emerging, which you know are harmful, hindering the enforcement of administrative decisions, the enforcement of laws. The general logic of changes to the Constitution provides for the democratization of all spheres of life in the state. This is important in many ways. First. The organization of the system of power must match the economic model. An efficient, competitive, market economy will not be without democratic governance. His alternative is the administration, which, combined with market principles, creates corruption, which is the most characteristic of the situation in Ukraine today. And not just corruption. Many examples of how business is being destroyed in Ukraine can be drawn from your own experience. We don't have that definition yet, and it's basically Ukrainian, and it has signs of banditry, unfortunately, of its nature in today's system of power. The same applies to the social sphere. And the fact that democratisation requires representatives of ideologically different political powers shows that there is an awareness of the acuteity of the problem in society, that the opposition, in particular, advocates the fight against the regime, not the keen interest, but the perspective of the state, the whole of society, the perspective of every human being. It's different. Democratization of public life dramatically reduces the influence of the subjective factor. This will result in the expansion of the area of freedom of speech, of self-government principles, especially at the regional level, of the foundations of civil society, and better protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens. Third. The transparency of the actions of the institutions of power resulting from democratization will also protect the sovereignty of the state. And increasing the role of Parliament in all the political, regional, ethnic, religious, and other aspects of Ukraine will contribute to its consolidation, civil peace. Fourth. Talks about European integration can only be taken seriously in harmonising state administration systems in Ukraine and in European states, regardless of the greater predictability of Ukraine's policies, the adequacy of actions and statements by senior leaders of the state, and the decision of the collective authorities of the will of the people. Only these points would be sufficient to confirm that changes to the Constitution are mature and must be accepted. A few more of these. Now Vasil Fedorovich will report to us on a draft amendment in the form of Law No. 0998. It should be taken into account that the Constitutional Court and the Expert Office have observed that after the adoption of such changes, there may be some failures in the right, constitutional law regarding the functioning of executive power after the resignation, such as the Cabinet of Ministers, whether the situation of appointment of the Prime Minister for 60 days can be used, such a situation where the President, on condition, proposes nominees that are not perceived by Parliament. 60 days is not approved, and then Parliament resigns, and, of course, there is a power crisis in Ukraine. There were many ways to eliminate such a defect. We discussed this issue on the Conciliation Council and on the People of the Supreme Council, where there were representatives of all factions, and we came to such a decision that since the procedure for reviewing changes to the Constitution is defined both by the Constitution itself and by the Constitutional Court Act, it is risky to submit to the Constitutional Court a document that has come from the Constitutional Court, some changes are risky to add what it means to refer the entire document back to the Constitutional Court. And under certain circumstances, it may be a situation that will take another year and a year and a half to draw the most difficult conclusions from this project. That is why the proposal is made. We now simply approve this project by a simple majority -- 226 votes, and the procedure for the next session is to collect 300 votes for it. And in that document, we can do something about the majority, the minority, some other nuances. And those standards. Which covers these gaps in the new one, let's say, the texts of many constitutional provisions, we're additionally now. Let's say next sessional week, let's take a look. This refers literally to two, three positions of the uncomplicated that resolve this flaw, and from the Constitutional Court, having received a positive conclusion during this session about the goods for expediting and considering the matter or urgent, is before the Constitutional Court. We can accept, in February-March, changes to the Constitution, which will be legally perfect, which will predict a change in the system of power, making power strong, responsible and stable, and not only power in Ukraine, but also the political situation in Ukraine. This is the content of the proposals proposed by the drafters and the authors of almost 150 Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u70	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. The question is to the reporter? Please record. Prepare and record. Please. Let me explain. Yes, the first National Deputy Gavrish, the Democratic Initiative Group, to prepare Karnauhu, the Socialist Party. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u71	I give the floor to the People's Deputy Dobkin. Turn on the microphone of the national MP Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u72	Dear Alexander Alexander, I have such a question. I have great respect for a deputy who has a great deal of experience in this difficult work. But that's my question. This is if you were a representative of power, and I often hear these words "we know how to give us," so if you were a representative of power, you would systematically make these changes to the Constitution and so would you like to put them into practice, would you have any other opinion on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u73	On that account, do you mean? I answer: I was the Head of the Supreme Council when I made the same proposals, and I was then a representative of the authorities. Understanding the responsibility of authority. If only. In addition, I am now a representative of the authorities. Thirdly, during the presidential campaign, when I was a candidate for the Presidents, I said, "If you elect me president, I will first do a draft change to the Constitution, which will reinforce the functions of the government and the parliament. And I will not be ashamed to come to Parliament when it comes to consulting people who have been chosen by society in order to ensure that the issues that are needed for the people are resolved for our nation. It's my principle position, and in that sense, I rely not only on our experience, let's say, of our nation-building, but also on the tremendous experience that those countries have that we sometimes call civilized, given that we haven't reached a distance from civilization. And I think we can do all of that in us. And those systems of power proved to be effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u74	National Deputy Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready to cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander, I would like to remind Deputy Dobkin and others that your contribution to the adoption of the Constitution is extremely great. And I remember when I was in your position in 1997, there was Paul Mikhailovich Movchan. And we had already tried to make changes to the Constitution, which would enhance the role of the government and bind the government and parliament responsiblely. Sadly, this did not happen for objective reasons. And because, as you think, is there a possibility today that the President has declared political reform, the establishment of a parliamentary-presidential form of government, the involvement of all deputies, whether they are in opposition or in what is called the majority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u76	Well, Mikola Vasilovich, I've always suspected that you wanted to take my place, but I don't mind. That's what I'm trying to say. These proposals that are made come from the interests of the state, the interests of the people, let's say, abstractly, but from the specific interests of every MP here. If he wants his will, coming from the source of the basic -- from the people -- to be realized through the actions of the government, through, say, the content of the law, first through the content of the law, he must get such rights. I don't want to be reprimanded, say, by today's deputies, who sometimes miss meetings of the Supreme Council or anything. I remember in 1990, until 1994, when every MP was afraid to be late for a meeting for a minute. And this hall was always crowded, because then the word here and the political change in society were closely linked. There is no such link today. It turns out that "you say something here, you've made an enemy in the community, because you're not like that." And if you're already an MP, it's like a "injurious" man has become, and the real power is being exercised somewhere on the side, and then you're going to be told how to vote, which law, which man is going to be appointed to one position or another, etc. [[Russian]] It's not normal. That's not supposed to happen. So you rely on people's will, no matter who goes to the Supreme Council, tell us how many meetings we've had that people tell you at these meetings, how you can implement your program if you don't have that kind of authority. You do not have the tools to carry out your authority and to do the will of the people, your electorate. So, I think it's in the interests of everyone, I didn't say by accident, even those people who, on condition today, don't have in the Supreme Council those who do, that there are MPs and businesses, because the law doesn't allow it. But let's imagine what happened. What we're doing with business today is dealing with people. The solution is that administrations are subordinated from top to bottom to one person and are independent of Parliament, not of government, not of political purpose at all. I think if you respect yourself all, you have to support these changes to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u77	Replicas later. The word is given by the National Deputy Zvaric, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u78	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich. I see some caution in your words, so you yourself realize that you need to be very careful about making changes to the Basic Law. And that's why you admit that your bill contains some inadequacies that you've been paying attention to, in fact, in my speech later on in the discussion, I'm going to focus on a few others. But I'd like to ask you a question about quite a bit of, you know, the complicated procedure that you're proposing to us here in the session room on the line of passage of this bill. You know, we've already had this case of modifying 98 articles of the Constitution that applied to the Court of Auditors, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved, in a so-called first constitutional reading, the corresponding changes to this article, and then we were here in the sessional room once again thinking that we should adjust the bill already approved in the first reading, and then the next time we had to send it to the Constitutional Court in order to reach a conclusion on 157th and 8th articles of the Constitution. In fact, in the procedure you are proposing, this mandatory constitutional rule is circumvented because you propose to accept it in the first reading, to make changes there, and then to vote in general at the next session. So I would ask you to clarify this procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u79	I'll explain. That's not what I'm suggesting. In this project, which has the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, I do not propose to make any changes. That is, by procedure, we approve of it in the first reading and finally accept it in the next session as provided for in the Constitution itself. And the gaps or inadequacies that you're talking about, we run parallel. We're looking at a few details of the constitutional rules here, we're sending them to the Constitutional Court, we're getting a positive answer, because there's no objection, and the Constitutional Court itself mentioned them, even the recommendations, as it were, to neutralize such shortcomings. And then we're taking one project and the other project that's closely related to each other. In general, this provides a perfectly legal and legal framework for the drafting of the law. Here's a proposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u80	National MP Matvienkov, prepare Kuharchuku, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u81	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Alexanderovich! I'm not asking much, so to speak, your role in the adoption of that Constitution, in fact, has to be commended for the work that has been done here, but I want to make a few points for myself. You said in your statement that it wasn't the Constitution that was adopted that they didn't want to do it today. Unless it's about what the Constitution is, they don't want to do it. What is the point of making changes today? That's the first question. And the second question. Still, the changes that are being proposed to date are not the changes that are due to time, I think you, as a healthy person, realize that if it's not 180 degrees, it's 90 degrees. These are serious changes that change the governance structure of the State in general. So here's the question: "In the meantime, you've really convinced yourself that this is exactly what our country needs, or that we might have another pen sample, where we'll talk so tested for five to seven years, then we'll go out on this platform and talk again about what didn't work out. Well, we need the next model. Are you sure that's what you're saying today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u82	Thank you for the good question. I said from the beginning, well, first of all, I was convinced of the need for this content of the Constitution 10 years ago. And I didn't give up on that position. And when we voted here in this sessional room of the Constitution, I understood that it was a compromise that could be accepted at the time, because the branch of executive power wasn't yet pushing on so many perfect methods, but it was a fairly influential vote, I could tell a lot of things about it, there are articles and books written, you know how it was. So we made that compromise, we made sure that we couldn't, let's say, get down to Ukraine in the swamp of dictatorship right away. And today we're proposing, I said it right, not in the context of the Constitution, but in the mechanisms for its use. We have to write down in the Constitution those norms that have the very essence of this mechanism that won't allow us to manipulate the logic of the Constitution, because we don't do 180 or 90 turns, we just improve the Basic Law itself in a way that we do exactly as the letter and the spirit of this law says. And as for the fact that it's not the time to do this, it's the first time. The answer to the first question is that there's no contradiction here, because we don't make sharp turns. On the other hand, it was not by chance that the President himself said that the system of power should be changed, political reform should be reformed. He even called the parliamentary-presidential form of government. That's not what I'm saying. I'm talking about the balance and the harmony of power, and then the time will pass, and people will determine whether it's parliamentary-presidential or something else.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u83	National Deputy Kuharczuk, Communist faction. Prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u84	Chef, Communist faction. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I always think why we accepted the Constitution and you were the initiator. And I tend to think that the first reason, which was mostly political opponents, was accepted by Soviet people who thought everything would be okay. And many officials today have forgotten such concepts as morality and conscience, and we live in this society. You can see that by legal means many issues, including the adoption of constitutional laws, cannot be resolved. How do you think it is necessary to write out mechanisms of some social or political influence on existing authority in order to achieve the fulfilment of all the rules of the Constitution? And the second. Would you not consider it appropriate to write down in the Constitution the opposition must be given a channel of radio, television, and other media because the law that is being drafted on the parliamentary opposition is a ghetto that is going to force us into today’s parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u85	That's my answer to the first question. Morality, of course, is not a legal category, it's a moral or spiritual thing. So it's a task that even for an immoral person who may have fallen into power by accident or by accident or by accident or somewhere, but it does have a legal relationship, because it lives in society, so that they can set a framework of behavior that matches the social morality, ethics and other categories. The Constitution provides for this, and how to influence these people here, the procedures that are now more clearly defined are, first of all, resignations, mistrust and so on, about higher echelons of power. Or the subordination, for example, of the administration and the Cabinet of Ministers. Naturally, the Cabinet of Ministers will be bound to Parliament, and the MP's opinion on the governor's position, I'll use that word if, I'm sorry, we don't have one in Ukraine, but let's say, a fool like that. Yes, if you think of it that way, you can get this message out of a faction in the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister and the deputies of the local level, and I didn't touch the question here anymore, because self-government is being trampled on us today, and then it will act as prescribed by law, on the basis of law. And what comes out of the rule of law is most likely to be moral, ethical, as you think. And finally. Yeah, influences that. The rights of the opposition. There are several draft laws, that's a different subject. In the Constitution you can write it down, you can write it down better in the Rules, because there is a parliamentary opposition, there is a political opposition in society, and so on, all in the Constitution cannot be written down. I think it should be, to regulate the individual laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u86	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Time. Aah! National Deputy Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u87	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I thank you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, for reminding you of the times when the parliament in Ukraine was indeed, but I ask you to pass on the word to Matthew Anatolia of our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u88	Anatoly Matvienko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u89	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Alexander Alexanderovich, do you agree with the claim that the system of power should be balanced because the effectiveness of this system determines the weakest chain, not the power of any one? And the second question. Since we are strengthening the representative body, that is, the Supreme Council's legislative body, do you not think that we should do everything we can to do in this and to make it possible to strengthen local self-government, at least to take away that the administrations are shaping and implementing the budget, and to give this right to the executive organs that the Constitution prohibits today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u90	I think we should and should go to the point where we can improve such legal standards. It is not necessary to change the Constitution. But the fact that the head of the administration won't interfere with local self-government because he's going to have another, so to speak, his nature of his position, his place, is already the protection of self-governing structures. In addition, what we are doing now in the budget, by increasing the functions of the regions, will also increase the role of local self-government. But what you're paying special attention to is very mature, and, I would say so, it's long overdue. And you can make this a change to the laws on local self-government, on local government administrations, but you can also see in the corresponding article, or in the relevant section on local administrations, to predict this position, which the local budget management, the orders, refers to the representative bodies, to their executive structures. It's absolutely necessary, I'm sure, that we had in 92, in 94th year, about 7 months of functioning a normal system of power where the district manager chose people and headed the council. I think it was this, well, renaissance of the rise of self-restraint and the independence of the regions. Obviously, we will still need to return to that experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u91	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u92	Thank you, everybody.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u93	The replica. National MP Dobkin, please. Turn on the microphone of the national MP Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u94	Thank you. I am very grateful to the rapporteur for the interesting report and the frank answers. And the deputy, my colleague Karnauhu, I want to say that you can talk about anything that you want for a long, long time. But there are facts, there is a story that tells us that I am in favour of increasing the role of Parliament today. When Alexander Alexandrovich was the head of Parliament, we were the Silovic ministers, the Parliament, elected. And with him, they stopped choosing them. So when words go wrong with a case, there's nothing to blame me for any inappropriate issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u95	Now we're going to have Alexander Frost's lineup and we're going to finish. Please don't call your last name. I asked you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u96	Dear Comrade Dobkin, the point is that when I became Head of the Supreme Council, the ministers you mention were appointed to Parliament, as commanded by the Constitution. And in 1996, when this position was not able to stand up in the text of the Constitution, because there were only seven socialists in Parliament, more loyally, 14 later became members of the party, you were able to stand up for what you are now in charge of. And the Silovic ministers began to appoint a president. And if they had any. You now have a specific address to whom to address your claims. I am here as Head of the former Supreme Council, and for five years now I have not been the head of the Supreme Council, but you have a good memory, it is Glory to God, so please do not address these questions to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u97	Who else was there? People's MP Mokchan. And Boris Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u98	Dear Alexander Alexander, I rather wanted to address you. The fact is that recent events in the leadership of the Supreme Council, not in the leadership, but in Ukraine, have shown that we are wasting our time today. And this was my main idea that there would be no change. It's all the romantics we're sitting here, who we're hoping will be able to do things someday. Things are done in parallel and quite the opposite. Therefore, would it not be appropriate to postpone consideration of these questions for another time? It's serious, because we're going to talk, we're going to pretend, we're going to play, we're going to leave this ping-pong here and there's not going to be any change. We all understand that in the questions that are going on, in the positions that the Presidential factions have taken, who's going to give 300 votes here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u99	Oily Boris Ilchi, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u100	Alexander Alexandrovich, did you not talk about it when you said that there were no smugs in Ukraine? If not, then I live in a completely different world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u101	Boris Ilchi, I'm sorry, have you said the line yet? Because I just got distracted here. Alexander Frost, please. It's a break, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u102	The first question was asked by Paul Mikhailovich. You have no doubt about it. The President himself is stressing the need for political reforms, and they are only possible in the way I spoke on behalf of the 170 deputies here. And one more detail. You remember on August 24, the President said that his proposals were actually coming out of the referendum? Let's skip some of the fundamental issues that are involved in this statement, because my proposals, our proposals, are fully consistent with the vote of the people during the referendum. One. The other one. I didn't happen to mention that these changes, changes need more than just positions, not even as many oppositions as the MPs who are in the majority. And then, today is the period of such inactive political campaigns. If we are to make changes to the Constitution, to the laws of other such, political or constitutional ones, we need to do this now, not when there is a campaign and everyone is going to measure whether the President or the Prime Minister or the deputy. I think we need to do this right now. And this coincides with both the wish of both the Head of the Supreme Council, and of every deputy, and of the President, including. We have to do this now. Well, Olinik asked if I was really convinced that there were no smug people in Ukraine. I honestly don't even say, 'cause I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, we've got a break, I just want to give you one piece of information. The National MP, Zvaric, violated the question of why the deputy head of the service, not the Head of the Security Service, reported on the draft Law on Combating Terrorism. Now the Secretariat picked up a letter that I received, and I just released it from my memory. 4. 11.02 A letter from the President requesting that this bill be presented by the Deputy Head of the Security Service, Vladimir Pristajko. Dear colleagues, there's a break to 12.30, then we'll continue to discuss the matter and the national deputy Sirenko will be speaking with a co-report. We will continue to consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u104	I invite you to report to Vasil Fedorovich Sirenk. Please, Vasil Fedorovich. We agreed on what time? As agreed, five minutes of the report and five minutes of the question, and we are finalizing these two issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u105	Basil Sirenko, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Legal Policy considered the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Constitution of Ukraine articles 84, 85, 89, 92, 93, 94, 106, 147, 150 and 151, and paragraph six of chapter fifteen of the Constitution of Ukraine introduced by the National Deputies, registration number 0998. [[only 170 signatures]] In view of the stated conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 14.03. In 2001, the bill was recognized as satisfying the requirements of the 157 and 158 Constitutions of Ukraine only in a certain part of the Committee’s decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that paragraph twenty-one of the first article 92, part four of article 92, part two of article 147, part one of the first article of article 150 of the Constitution of Ukraine should be approved. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the proposed legislative changes to the provisions of article 84, paragraph three, of article 85, part two, of article 89, part two, of article 147, of article 150 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Since, according to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, those positions are recognized as not meeting the requirements of article 157, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee noted that, in its conclusion of October 16, 2002, in the case of a request to the Supreme Council for an opinion on the conformity of the draft Ukrainian law on the amendment of the Constitution, the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court had clarified its position on the amendments to article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the promulgation and application of laws which had not been returned by the President during the re-examination period. In this connection, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council a draft decision proposing that the next 3rd session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be placed in the agenda of the draft Ukrainian law amending the Constitution of Ukraine. And the third point. Changes relating to part 3 of article 84, paragraph 3 of part 1 of article 85, part 2 of article 89, article 147, article 150 of the Constitution of Ukraine to the draft law set out in paragraphs 1, 2 of that provision should be rejected as being such that they do not meet the requirements of part 1 of article 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine. From the articles that the Constitutional Court has recognized that they are in line with articles 157, 158 can be called article 92. If you take a comparative table, you'll see that paragraph 21 of Part 1 we suggest that you put it this way: "Organization and order of business of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Status of Ukrainian national deputies The principles of legislative activity and the basic requirements of law. The status, organization and order of operations of the Court of Auditors, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights." And here at 21 there was only "Organization and order of business of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." The status of the Ukrainian people's deputies." I mean, we're adding accordingly a whole list of issues that are further expanding the mandate of the Supreme Council. This is also true of part 4 of this article. "The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts laws, also from other issues within its powers, so we are expanding the list of legislative acts that are governed solely by Ukraine's laws. Further article 147, part two. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine decides on the conformity of laws and other legal acts of the Constitution of Ukraine, makes an official interpretation of the Constitution of Ukraine, and concludes on the cases provided for in this Constitution. That's the problem that we've always had, because the Constitutional Court has rejected and talked about the fact that it doesn't provide conclusions, and now we're talking about it making conclusions. And to the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, we propose to introduce legal acts by the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that is, all the legal acts of the Supreme Council, including the rulings, may be brought before the Constitutional Court after the adoption of this law. These are the proposals of the committee that I've reported to you and that are directly related to certain details in the Constitution. I believe that they can be accepted at the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as changes to the Constitution. At present, it is a matter of prior approval. With regard to other articles of the Constitution, which, 84, 85, 89, 147, 150, the Constitutional Court declared them not to meet the requirements of article 157, 158 of the Constitution. And we're proposing to reject them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u106	Thank you, Vitaly Fedorovich. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? If there is, please sign in. Light up on the board. Five minutes to ask. Roman Zvaric, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u107	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vitalia Fedorovich, you propose, in practice, to amend a bill that the Supreme Council has already reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, i.e. in practice, you are modifying the text of a bill signed by at least 150 Ukrainian national deputies. Since the procedure for amending such a bill is neither provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine nor by the laws of Ukraine, and also taking into account previous experience when we approved in the first so-called first reading of the Law amending 98 articles of the Constitution, and then amended our approved bill and amended the amendment to the Constitutional Court. Do you not think that the proposed amendments need to be sent once again to the Constitutional Court in order to reach a conclusion on the conformity of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u108	No, I don't think so, because for one reason: where the Constitutional Court has agreed that these amendments correspond to 158, 157 articles of the Constitution, there is no problem with prior approval of these amendments, because we are talking about amendments to the existing Constitution. It's not the draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution, it's the existing Constitution. I understand that the difficult fate of the 98th changes will cause you to doubt everyone, so to speak, approaches. But in this case, it's about the existing Constitution and the changes that we're proposing, clarifying or expanding the possibilities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they can be correlated with that relevant law. What is more, at the committee meeting, it was about the need to unify all the bills that made changes to certain articles of the Constitution, and that would be normal, I think. But the point is that changes are made to the existing Constitution, not to the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u109	Thank you, too. National Deputy Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u110	Fucking Communist faction. Vasil Fedorovich, we know you as a well-known lawyer in Ukraine, you're our countryman. But, please tell me, we know how this law was enacted. He was assigned by the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court. We know how much pressure the President put on the deputies, on the part of the executive branch, because the changes are expanding the powers of the Supreme Council. So how do you appreciate today the reaction of existing power, executive power, in the President's person to these changes in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u111	I believe that now both the existing authorities and the opposition have come to the conclusion that the issue has matured and needs to change the political system in order for Parliament to have the rule in the branches of power. And that's normal for a parliamentary republic. The transition to parliamentaryism is a necessity today in Ukraine. And that's what intelligence understands, even as they say, is a commoner and he understands that something needs to be done. Today, executive authorities and it is said that the Presidential authorities are not coping with those problems that arise in society, they are not coping with the systemic crisis in society. And so she agrees that these changes will be made. I think that if the MPs show the necessary will, these changes will be made, and the parliamentary powers will be expanded, and I think they will be strengthened in general, and the state authorities in Ukraine will be strengthened after these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u112	Thank you. National MP Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Vassil Fedorovich, well, I think you and those who helped you have gone to the right place, working on the fundamental changes to the Constitution, the addition. At the same time, I have a question for you. So you're proposing, let's say that the Constitutional Court should consider not only the laws and their conformity with the Constitution, but other legislative acts of the President, the government and so forth. I'm also very concerned today about, let's say, the lack of principle of our Constitutional Court, its, let's say, vulnerability, and it's under political pressure, let's say, the President, and so on, it sometimes makes such ridiculous decisions that we, well, let's say, we didn't ridicule this very good idea of yours for a specific execution. I call our Constitutional Court "the fifth wheel to the wagon," because they've been discussing for two months, can we say that we can raise people's wages there if people don't get paid? Well, that's it. So without pay, people have to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u114	Thank you. In many of my publications, I emphasized the pressure placed on the Constitutional Court by the President and the executive branch. And that, indeed, is true. I think the MPs still have to deal with the situation that constitutional justice has in general in our democratic system. It's not just the Constitutional Court, it's constitutional justice as such. Because who will perform the functions of constitutional justice, or the Constitutional Court, as provided for in the Constitution, or whether it is possible to transfer the mandate to the Supreme Court, for example, Ukraine, and so on, it is also a problem for Parliament and a problem of change to the Constitution. But I think that in the Constitutional Court Act, which we're going to have to consider in the future, we have to put a lot of things in place, and put the Constitutional Court within what it would serve society as a whole and the Constitution as a whole, rather than a separate branch of power, as we say today, we do not see in the practice of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And the question of the Land Code was not considered in practice by the Constitutional Court, and the question of most refused to be considered, and questions where the Constitutional Court sees that a decision should be taken in the name of the Constitution, in the name of society, he refuses to consider. So, of course, these issues have to be resolved, but I think they can be settled in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u115	Thank you, Vasil Fedorovich, please sit down. We finished the presentation even in time. Dear friends, we agreed not to open the debate, but we have a presentation. We made a deal with the organizers. Vasil Fedorovich. And I'm asking you and Alexander Alexanderovich, we agreed that we should create a commission, and the committee is going to make a recommendation so that we, apart from the presentation, can go to the hearings of this document. You two agree to the mechanism of decision-making through the working group and to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council the official consideration of issues 0999 and 0998 with their official discussion, with statements from all factions. We will continue this work. We have now concluded our consideration of this issue and are moving on to 1241: draft laws on protection and amendments to some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Protection. Reported to the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Bandurka Alexander Markovich. I can't see him in the hall. Oh, I see. Well, we'll make a note of him. Bill 1089: draft Act on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich. But Ukraine’s national deputy, roadside Alexander Viktorovich, is preparing. Oleg Alexanderovich, how much do you need to consider? Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u116	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues. I hope no one in this room will have any doubts about the next sensation. Freedom of movement and free choice of residence are important acquisitions of a democratic society. Moreover, after World War II they are officially declared in international acts of a global nature. Similar provisions are found, for example, in the European Convention on Human Rights, in Articles 2 and 3 of Protocol No. 4 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Yes, article 2 of the Protocol states that, first of all, every person who legally resides in the territory of any State has the right to move freely and to choose a place of residence within that territory. The other one. Every man has the right to leave any country freely, including his own. Third. The exercise of these rights is not subject to any restrictions except those imposed by law and necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national or public security in order to promote public order, to prevent crime in order to protect the rights and freedoms of others. Article 3 of the same Protocol states that no person may be deprived of the right to enter the territory of the State of which he is a citizen. [[She's]] End of quote. These rights are guaranteed and the Constitution of Ukraine, article 33 of which declares: "every person lawfully residing in Ukraine shall be guaranteed freedom of movement, free choice of residence, the right to leave the territory of Ukraine without restrictions established by law. A Ukrainian citizen cannot be deprived of his right to return to Ukraine at any time. I would like to point out that in many bilateral international agreements, Ukraine has already confirmed its adherence to the principle of freedom of movement. For example, the name of the convention between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Belgium is 1992. Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on freedom of movement - 1992 Memorandum of understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on unlimited freedom of movement - 1992 A memorandum of understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Spain in 1994, and a number of others. At the same time, citizens continue to be violated in their territory by the often-declared principles of the Constitution and international legal acts. In fact, there is a system of restrictions on free choice of residence that violates human rights. So it is extremely important for Ukraine, as it is in many countries, including its neighbours, among them Russia. The introduction of a separate legal instrument to regulate the above-mentioned problems, namely, the proposed Act on Freedom of Sensitivity and Freedom of Circumstances in Ukraine, a law aimed not only at reforming Ukraine's institutions of law, but also the creation of an applicable mechanism for the implementation of freedom of movement. My bill was discussed by the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at the Committee on Legal Protection. Both of these committees recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading. That is also the conclusion of the Scientific Expert Office. So I ask the National Deputies to accept it in the first reading and to make their suggestions for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u117	Please, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Light up on the board. National MP Nosenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u118	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Dear Oleg Alexanderovich! We know that a declaration has been made on the difference of the pronunciation, but all restrictions are on this, and they continue. How do you think that after the adoption of this law, we will get rid of this phenomenon or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u119	Thank you. Thank you so much for such a question. Because despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has determined that the Constitution of Ukraine is in conflict with the Constitution, in particular, article 33, which I have quoted, these human rights restrictions remain in practice. I think a lot of the people here, from our audiences, from our citizens, have encountered a problem in terms of employment. If a person lives for many years, let's say, in Kiev on legal grounds, he takes down an apartment here, he has a guaranteed profit, and at the same time he has legal co-operations about the fact that it's not prescribed here. I'll even come up with another question -- when a child can't be assigned to a Kyiv school, an Odesh school, or a Levite school, if the family isn't prescribed in this place, even though people can work here. The language even goes on and on about the inability to officially marry people who are not prescribed in one area or another. I think it's just a disgraceful phenomenon. I didn't say that in my brief statement, it's what you want, autism or old rudimentary, not what system. It's really rudimentary. And directly to your question. Yes, it's my bill that can prevent such a violation, because it's not just a declaration, it's a practical application mechanism -- how the institution can actually be replaced by another mechanism. Well, I'd like to stress in particular that if we're talking about market transformations, if we're talking about the market and all that, when we're talking about today's system, it's all talk. Why? Because the normal thing, I believe, is that when a person builds his career, it's his fate, not because he's tied to a 2 or 3-room cartilage, where three generations or four generations of this family have already lived, but because he can find a job where he can realize his skills, a high-paying job. Even if it is found, as in other lands, it is common for 300, 500, and 1,000 miles [1,000 km] away. So I thank you for asking. I think my bill can solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u120	Deputy Kalichenko, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u121	The word is passed on to the Infantry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u122	I'm sorry, I have a question like that. We're changing the law of the law to the law of the law. It's a progressive method, we understand that, but together with whether or not there will be a migration of more and more of the cities we have. That's the first one. The other one. What system for tracking a criminogenic contingent that will stretch to certain places and create an appropriate environment? And how will control or registration take place, or even count these movements or migrations?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u123	Thank you. I'm reporting. The first question is, Will there be a relocation? Obviously, relocation will be, but no more than it is now, because people, in fact, are looking for work where it allows them to survive, where they can live. So that's what's going on in a clear order. I propose that this be legalized so that a person does not feel, if you want, a legal discomfort from his desire to build his fate properly, and I emphasize this word, to build his career, to make his or her normal professional career. And as for the criminogenic population, I'd like to draw attention to Article 11, it's pretty much, well, detailed. This is about restrictions on the right to freedom of movement, this is not the total norm proposed in the bill of freedom of movement. And here, well, I can just read that "the right to freedom of movement is limited to such categories of persons: persons who are subject to preventive measures under procedural legislation related to restriction or deprivation of liberty; persons who are sentenced by court to imprisonment in the form of deprivation or restriction of will; persons who are under administrative supervision under the law; persons who are under the law.", well, and more about infectious diseases and so on. That is, in principle, this is provided for in article 11 as well as in that sub-paragraph of this article, where the right to free residence is restricted. The language here says they can't do that, the limit is extended to children who haven't reached 16 years of age, so that we don't provoke, as they say, these runaways from families, and so on. And besides, it's not about just getting rid of a control system. This control is needed not only by the State but also by the citizens themselves, in order for the State to fulfill its obligations to these people. It's about a sufficiently civilized and modern registration system, and it's written here, especially in articles 5th, 6th, 7th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u124	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich, time is up. Dear colleagues, we've registered 15 people, we've only been able to ask two people, there's nothing I can do. Well, then, from the procedure, you'll say what you're going to say. So let's stick to the rules. Please, Alexander Viktorovich Road. All I would ask is that, dear colleagues, we are very shy in our work, since many more questions need to be considered. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u125	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a few of the issues that need to be addressed in law, and which has motivated me, including the National MP of the 3rd Call of Lavrinovich, to work on this project, because this is our joint project, it's been working for several years. And you know that he voted several times, but something in another configuration. It was a bill on state registration and we concluded that the issue of registration was still a matter of a bit different, we need, in the light of the Constitutional Court's decision and, including, above all, the constitutional provisions relating to the protection of this inalienable human right, to ensure its regulation legislatively. The bill is very short, but in my opinion it allows me to find out all the issues that absolutely need to be settled by law in order to then in other legislative acts that are absolutely necessary and necessary, I am referring to the legislative act on the registration of natural persons, the law on the registration of natural persons, the protection of personal information in further development. This bill, which is just page 4, has two basic positions. The first principle is that the restriction of freedom of movement is territorial. This is article 4. The bill clearly states under which conditions freedom of movement may be restricted. I believe that in this regard we are acting, the drafters of the bill are acting in terms of, say, the legal maximum, that what is unfortunately not prescribed by law is being done in administrative proceedings. In order to prevent it, we settle these issues in law. And the second principle is found in article 5 of the limit on freedom to choose a place of residence. Thus, articles 4 and 5 contain an exclusive list of the reasons why the right to freedom of movement and freedom of residence may be limited. To make it clear that this is the case, I quote very briefly. For example, in the border strip, in the territory of military facilities, in the territory of foreign reserves, we worked out the laws of Ukraine that contained these restrictions in one way or another and laid them down in one law. I believe that with the support of the Hall, this bill has the right to exist and can finally resolve the problem that is, let's say, very acute and causes And misunderstandings, many have also shown this in the question asked by the distinguished National MP of the Infantry about whether it would not mean that big cities would grow even more and there would be uncontrolled displacement of the people and so on. So this law is a necessary step. With regard to the ratio of the bill reported by the Honourable Zarubinsky People's Deputy, and this bill, I believe that they complement each other, although there are also critical remarks to Bill 1089. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this bill, 1089-1, of which I am the author, we have divided the question of choice, namely the right to choose, and, on the other hand, the right to register. As experience has shown, repeatedly voting here in the hall is the only way forward. If we divide this question, there's a chance that we can go to a harmonized bill. If we solve them together again, these questions, once again, the hall will react negatively. And the fact that it needs to be settled, well, it's perfectly clear to me, and to all the committees that have drawn conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign in. Put the name of the national MPs on the board. National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u127	Thank you. Alexander Viktorovich! Alexander Suhiy, Zaporozhye, faction of the SDPU. For me, the need to draft a bill is no doubt, for article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine proclaims that human rights and freedoms, the guarantees of their implementation are determined exclusively by law. But in Ukraine, the law that you're talking about, that you're looking at the legal relationship that arises during the implementation of article 3 of the Ukrainian Constitution -- the right to free choice of residence -- does not exist. I get that. I don't understand the other, the explanation to me, because you and I are in this session hall not the first year together, and not the first year I'm asking the same question: two of the same laws, you said the ratios, they complement one another, couldn't you still be at that distance, when you're discussing on the committee, bringing them together and making collective authorship? And not subtracting this time here, because the important thing, in principle, the content and the essence of the legal relationship, is the same thing as free choice of place of residence. What prevents them from being mechanically united today?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u128	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. I take a critical point. Perhaps not enough time for two authors who, while sitting next to them, did not find this time to lead to one text. We'll take that into account. And I'm sorry it happened, but it wasn't our decision. After we've registered the bills, they're no longer the authors' property. Decisions were taken by the relevant committees and the Governing Body.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u129	I think that, with the agreement of the authors, the bill could be worked out by a committee to produce one harmonized document so that we don't break the files in the session room. This applies not only to the subject but also to many others. They're just throwing it into the session room so they can figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u130	But there's no problem, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u131	Please, Pejhota People's Deputies, the European Choice MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u132	Alexander Viktorovich, now our neighbors have entered the European Union. They have their own registration laws. How does our law today conform to the laws of our neighbours who will be in the European Union?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u133	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Yuriovich. The question is not that, but because they do come in from May 1, 2004, we have time to prevent the problems and colossal moments that may arise. My bill clearly sets out the reasons for restricting the right, freedom to choose, free choice of residence, and the right to move. This project does not solve the issue of registration. I would like to point out that the experience of the previous call of the Supreme Council, when my colleague Lavrinovich and I reported the law four times and four times he did not receive support in connection with the difficulty of resolving the issue of registration, led me to conclude that the issue should be settled separately. One law that will confirm the citizen's right and the possible limitations that are logical, I'm paying attention again, in the border strip, well, it's clear that you can't be there freely, because it's a border strip and just a mile to the border line and so on. So this has to be clearly spelled out in the law. And the next step on these grounds will be the Registration Law. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u134	National Deputy Garmash, Communist faction. I just jumped on a tree. Now, Lechchenka, I think you two will form two questions at the same time. Please, Lechchenko People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u135	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Alexander Viktorovich, it may be a coincidence that this bill on freedom of movement and free choice of residence is being submitted by representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But that's not the point. The point is that restrictions are placed on private land. And according to the Earth Code of January 1, 2005, land trade will begin and so forth, and many peasants will be left without land. I mean, is it going to happen that they're going to live in the village and they're not going to be able to, in general, move on as far as their own home is concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u136	Thank you for asking, I reiterate that in this case this applies to article 4. But it seems reasonable to me that if there is no owner’s consent on private land and this is understandable if the owner of this private land does not agree with the other person, it is an inalienable right of the owner. If he agrees, you know this anecdotal example that we're explaining to everyone, if the owner of this building agrees, hypothetically, I mean Gruszewski 5, then we can write with you here, but we have a very serious question, who still owns it. But here clearly and clearly, I go back to paragraph 4, article 4, I meant in this bill to confirm the private right of the landowner. If he does not want others to be found there, he may, including, under this law, refer to this law as another confirmation of the inalienable private property of the land. I don't see the danger there, maybe it's a little bit different, if we don't see it in the law, then there'll be danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u137	And thank you, Alexandre Viktorovich, time is up. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations, Mikola Alexandrovich Schulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Freedom of the press and free choice of residence are fundamental human rights. It is declared in a series of international acts and the Constitution of Ukraine. In many bilateral agreements, Ukraine has confirmed its adherence to the principles of freedom of movement and free choice of residence. However, the absence of a law that regulates freedom of movement leads to the practice of violating the rights of citizens. And the laws of the people's deputies of Zarubinsky and Zadrodzny give the opportunity to move in a practical direction towards the realization of these rights. We've discussed both these bills in the committee, and we've given them a lot of attention, and we think it's a very important initiative. What we have observed about these two bills. We've taken these bills too seriously, and most of all we're talking about, what happens if we adopt these bills? And there's a lot of questions about that kind of practical content. That is, questions related to the adoption of this bill, which comes after that in our society in relations between citizens. In particular, we are very interested in and concerned about such things as procedures and procedures for the registration of citizens. How will this registration take place? This is going to be a zero choice, which is those that are already registered, do we, the 48 million people, need to reregister now? Unfortunately, there is no such thing in the bill. Obviously, then, we need to write down some of the final positions. Next. You know that the law enforcement system is present in more than 200 normative acts that regulate relationships, starting with military service, pensions, attachments to the health care facility, and so on. Are we not willing to make free movement or are we going to make it worse? If we want to do better, we can do worse. In this regard, the committee approved the recommendation of both bills to the Supreme Council, giving priority to the draft law submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Zarubinski, taking it as a basis. And when you work on it, you usually take into account the bill of the national MP of the Road. I'll say a few more words. I think that these bills would be appropriate to be adopted in full. So let's say that we have 2 or 3 bills or 4 bills that fully regulate that system of relationships that is now based on a pen, so that we don't make chaos, so that people don't run from one institution to another, because one law is passed, and the other law is not yet passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u139	And the questions may come to you. Any questions, dear fellows? Please sign in. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u140	Fucking Communist faction. Mikola Alexandrovich, I'm one of the MPs. That's what it is. It's already registered. Not prescribed, registered. You don't think that if such a law is passed in Ukraine, as Bush did in America with his orders, he's already done fingerprinting, he's in constant control. We're not going to have political sissy on this one by the MPs, and so on. This law, on the other hand, solves acts that are unconstitutional by the police, the prosecutor’s office, and other law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u141	Thank you for asking. Whether this is the case or not, it will depend on how the Supreme Council treats it or on all seriousness and responsibility. And the fact that new technologies, especially information technologies, allow for total control of the individual, and sometimes for political purposes, it's given as protection of citizens, which actually leads to such total control. Therefore, we need to be very careful about following and passing through this danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u142	National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear Mikola Alexandrovich, have you noticed that there are such contradictions in the law of Zarubinski Oleg Alexandrovich. In order for you to register, you get seven days, and then when you switch places, two weeks, but when you don't register in seven days, you get a fine. What's more, it's not where you're moving from the RAGs, that's where you're going, that's where the confusion is. Incomprehensiblely, the laws that had been prepared for him did not make sense, but they did not really understand where, and so on. You've seen it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u144	I answer that we invited both executives and those who are currently in the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the committee's meetings, and we've been paying attention to these things. And I think that when you're working on it, you'll have to write these things out more clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u145	National MP Bondarenko Volodymir, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u146	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. Here are the documents that gave us their time, and it's written that these laws, these changes will not cause any additional funding from the state budget. I'm questioning this position because it's just the forms to replace, there, the masses to enter new ones, we'll talk, documents and so on. I think it's going to take a lot of money. Can you please tell me if someone's analyzed them or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u147	No one has analyzed it, and it is precisely the committee's point that there is no financial justification. And I've already told you, and you know that there are about 200 sub-laws there to replace all of this, it needs a lot of money. So what I'm saying is, it takes all the bills that we're going to accept as a complex, and we're going to calculate, and we're going to have a sequence so that we don't take one, and then the other we're going to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u148	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u149	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The distinguished rapporteur, please tell us what you correctly said to be intertwined here, let us say so, with two serious aspects of our work: law enforcement, registration structures. But you haven't touched another very serious issue, the Housing Code. How can we today get out of the contradictions of those who are now entering the Housing Code? There you go. If there is no contradiction or agreement between the tenants who live here, it can be registered. Does this give you the right to purchase some part of the house? How will housing-sharing issues be further resolved? Will registration be taken into account or not? So this is the whole section. Do you not feel that you had to start by adopting the new Housing Code and then considering it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u150	I completely agree with you. I didn't read all about the comments just for the sake of the time economy. Individual articles of the bill should be brought into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Civil and Housing Codes of Ukraine. I completely agree with you. It needs to be reconciled here, because it's all written there because of a pen.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u151	Thank you, Mikola Alexandrovich. Time's up, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to this question. We have 12 minutes to discuss. Please show the list of those who have signed up for the discussion. Yes, Yuri Karmazin, prepare Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u152	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the people of Ukraine, for those who listen to us, so that you don't worry. The laws that are proposed, including Oleg Zarubinsky and Alexander Zadrożny, are undoubtedly necessary. And we, whether we want to or not, are obliged to accept them, we are obliged, if we are law - abiding people, because the Constitutional Court’s decision of 14 November 2001 has been declared unconstitutional. So a year ago, they're declared unconstitutional, but they're still fully operational today. This is about our responsibility for enforcing the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Now, about the quality of the proposed bills. I ask not to be offended by my colleagues, but I want to say that these bills do not solve the issue of a systematic and complex approach to such an important matter. They do not solve or resolve the question of how to deal with elections. Am I asking this question to the committee? What to do in the elections? Now there's an extra election in some district. Several thousand people came to register. That's how they made the elections. All of it. Question done. What about the future? What will and how to respond adequately to the Russian Federation, which today is simply psychological terrorism against Ukrainian citizens. Psychological Terrorism! You've crossed the border of the Russian Federation, register and so forth, severe consequences and all of this is going to happen. We don't respond adequately. Here are the questions that the committee has rightly pointed out that there are some 200 of them, and the questions that are now being asked to be resolved by this law, the laws are not large - in one 15 - article, in another 9 - page articles. I'd like to draw your attention, the bill of Oleg Zarubinsky says, in transitional terms, "Make the automatic transfer of the data on the registration of persons in the residence queues at the place of residence." Do any of you realize what's behind this? Imagine when everyone leaves now, they're going to be in line in the capital, because there's something the mayor is doing here, and everyone is going to be automatically in that row. And the rights of the territorial communities that create this property? Is that what we're thinking? What about legislation on the protection of the rights of the territorial communities? So I'm saying, I don't see here, unfortunately, the government is assigning only a piece of government is, and in general the government is assigning fat pieces that are. I would like the government to be here and there to be a systematic approach to solving these problems, and draft laws must, of course, be unified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u153	Ivan Mihovich, a faction of Communists, prepare for Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u154	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear colleagues, the relevance of the adoption of the law in the matter under discussion is evident. The project that we're looking at first has a long history, has been discussed on our committee since the last call. Unfortunately, most of the comments and suggestions were ignored by the author, so let me stop for a second. According to Mikola Alexandrovich Schulga, the Constitution of the country used in the Bill of Terminology must first and foremost be brought into line with the provisions of the Bill of Terminology, and the individual positions, as already stressed by colleagues, should be aligned with the Civil and Housing Code of Ukraine. Secondly, it may be appropriate in the preamble to clearly define the substance of the subject matter of the legislative regulation, its order, the mechanism, the form of citizen control, so that the regulation does not change the complexity of bureaucracy and bribery in the form of registration. It is necessary to base the process itself, since the bill does not show who or what authority should be given, which should be the order of removal, the form of the statement, the amount of information it contains about the person, the consideration of the materials provided by the person, the issuing of the vouchers or the notes in the passport documents, and so on. If this is to be predicted by a separate position, what it should be like, who approves it, how to accuse illegal acts of officials and so forth. And when a new mechanism is introduced, it should be determined that those who have been prescribed are considered to be registered by place of residence, and the government should be asked to determine the order of admission for those who need to improve housing conditions, which has just been mentioned. Third. It is also essential to define the interaction of data banks at different levels: local, regional, state-wide, registration of natural persons, the authorizations of numerical authorities and authorities to request and provide information about citizens. This is not a formality, for the clear alignment of these issues will depend largely on the real security of citizens’ rights and freedoms. Or a new law will be another tool for total control of behavior, as reported, by the unfavourable, hidden means of persecuting persons to order power and so forth, that today is cynical everywhere. He also has a point to separate articles. Yes, in the first, it's appropriate to link to the Constitution and international documents, in the second, to supplement the terms used in the law, such as "personal registration," "restricted access zones," "exclusion permits," "permanent and temporary housing," and so on. In the 6th article we need to include citizens who are in boarding, in nursing homes, veterans, disabled people and other categories. The 11th article also needs to be aligned with the Civil Code. The second bill is generally general, very eloquent. Conclusion: Both bills, rather than expanding freedom of movement and free choice of residence, pose a potential danger of narrowing these rights, new restrictions, and gross violations. Therefore, it is appropriate, as emphasized here, to unite, refine, and offer to reread them for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u155	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u156	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. I think that the initiative that the authors have taken deserves support. Because more than a year ago, on November 14, last year, the Constitutional Court issued a well-known 15-PP decision on the fact that a category such as that of citizens in Ukraine is not constitutional. At the same time, the proposed bill competing with each other can lead to neither and the other, and here positions have already been said, about the need for their coordination, first of all, and the exit to this room, perhaps to co-authorization. Today I would not want to dwell on the details of the articles of a project, but I would like to pay more attention to the technology of adopting these bills, and to the whole series of bills that should be adopted simultaneously with these laws. Otherwise we'll just get a vacchanal in Ukraine. There have already been some issues of electoral technology that can be used in connection with inadequacy, today, in the Constitution of Ukraine. We can touch on some problems in housing and utilities, where today the calculation of municipal pay and utilities is done not by counters, as it is in normal countries and in normal technologies, but by the number prescribed in one area or another. This concealment of the license can lead to huge damage in the housing and utility offices. We have a huge system of benefits that should be designed to provide a person’s targeting, since we can receive benefits at the same time in one, two, and three places when this is not fixed. I think that the problem with the address system, with the postal services, with many other positions, so the authors obviously need to share with us the task of drafting these bills, as well as the responsible services of the Cabinet of Ministers to conduct an inventory of existing legislation that will thus be regulated along with these laws, otherwise we will have very bad consequences. I think we should also think about the responsibility for violating regulations, first of all, in the Constitution, in the 33rd article. We witnessed such a rude, total violation of the 33rd article of the Constitution during the opposition. You know that in Ukraine it was forbidden for administrative authorities to sell tickets to some trains that went to the capital to take buses. People were taken off buses on their way in. Including myself, I witnessed such a disgraceful landing on the Zitomir route when people were offered either on foot back or not to go to Kiev because there were opposition shares. This is a severe restriction on the right of citizens to move legally across Ukraine. So I propose that this law be amended and submitted together with a set of documents that would deal with changes to other laws that are in force in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u157	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u158	Dear Parliamentarians! For the most part, and I think that around 300 of our colleagues are moving freely to Kiev, in Ukraine, outside Ukraine, we are deciding, in my opinion, a very, very important question. In my approach to this bill, I see two aspects: one political and the other legal. As far as politics is concerned, there are no warnings. I remember, when I first entered Odessa University as a boy, I had what I had in my hands, and my father, I think, was still running for about three weeks at the head of the farm to let me go to school. And the second episode. I was invited to Kiev once, and they said, "You sign up first, and then we'll take you to work." And at work in "Literature Ukraine," they said, "You sign up." And when he went to get a prescription, they said, "Get a job first, and then we'll prescribe you." And one Lieutenant Colonel said to me, "That's what I came up with, that's what I came up with." Because of this, it is perfectly clear that there is no doubt in the political sphere that this quiet, so to speak, revolution about the full freedom of movement of our people must be done. Even five years after the adoption of the Constitution today, the buses from Lviv who went to the action "Rise, Ukraine!" They were completely unrelentingly stopped and prevented. I mean, today this question is politically undeniable. So there's a second aspect: the legal aspect. And what my colleagues have said here is that this law is very necessary, it's practically the same two laws. I am convinced that it is necessary, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that because Zarubinsky and the Traveller are sitting next to each other, they were unable to agree. Let's put them down and they, I think, go somewhere in a day or two and put this bill together because the ideology in it is exactly the same. The only thing in the Roadway is a slightly broader aspect, let's say, of who this law doesn't apply -- minors there and so on. We just need to unify it very easily and easily, I think, this bill. But the question, let's say it's about elections. Obviously you need to think about the law to adopt this option right now, I don't think you can do it with all the positiveness of these laws. Don't let the authors take offense at me, but there's a quota of pre-election living to make sure that there's really no one who can bring two election trains and fake any election. But the world has long lived by these rules and to be afraid today, to hesitate that this bill brings about a whole system of other additions to other bills, I don't think we have the right to be afraid of it with you. This is a step that needs to be taken, but don't let the authors get offended, I think during this extra time this bill will go very easily and easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u159	The draft law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine has been completed. Zarubinsky. Yes, I'm telling you, in one minute, please. It's a deal, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! I thank you for this discussion. I'm the only one I wanted to say. That my bill was not bound by a decision of the Constitutional Court accordingly, because it had been filed six months before this decision of the Constitutional Court on the inadequacy of the provision of a constitutional institution. This is the first moment. One second. I have to say that the discussion in part reminded me of the situation in the 1960s when Daniel Blue was tried for "tuniature and barrenness," and there were these phrases: "I didn't read it, but I'm against it. And I have to say it." And so on. It seemed to me, frankly, that many of the drafts of this bill, unfortunately, had not read, because they would have looked at the end of the situation where, virtually, all the problems that were being discussed today are marked as being automatically transferred by individuals who had a permanent license in the territory of Ukraine, corresponding data on them in the Single Register of Natural Persons. And it doesn't go anywhere, because it says here that you can automatically transfer the data for the registration of the person into the residence queue by the place of residence. It is said that the Cabinet of Ministers has been instructed to make appropriate changes to the other bills mentioned here. Well, and I was a little bit, frankly, surprised to hear that the committee position was represented or presented here, at a time when the committees had made a decision, most of these committees, to adopt a bill in the first reading and to take into account the proposals they made, so I think we can do that on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Freedom of Movement and the free choice of residence in Ukraine have been completed. As for the decision, we will be determined on Thursday, taking into account the discussions and suggestions made by the profile committee. You are considering draft laws on protection and amendment of some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Protection Act. Reporter: Alexander Markovich Bandurka, the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. To discuss this question, it is suggested that up to 5 minutes for the report, up to 5 minutes for answers to questions and discussions within 10 minutes. That's what the profile committee recommends. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u162	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! It's the situation with the Act on Protection and just now with the previous two bills: two laws have been reported once, you've recommended that one law on protection work be done and that there be a union of state protection and non-state protection activities, which we have done. By its content, the protective activity, the protection of property, and the personal security of individuals are such that it directly affects the personal and property rights of citizens and legal persons. The activities of property protection personnel concern millions of citizens, as well as many legal persons of all forms of property. A relatively small number of citizens are taking steps to ensure the personal safety of individuals. The total number of persons currently on a professional basis involved in the direct exercise of security functions is several hundred thousand. They work as an umbrella for the central executive authorities, non-state property managers, State Department units at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in the form of entrepreneurship entities in the field of security, in ominous security structures governed by civil law, scattered by dozens of different laws and regulations. In general, there is no legislation that regulates the protection of public activities. Ukraine’s individual sub-laws define the powers of the military security units of certain ministries, other central executive authorities, who are entitled to such protective units, or to special facilities, and firearms. The bill regulates the generalization, the establishment of general legal rules that regulate relationships in the field of protection and those that are still not regulated in legal terms. You have a bill on your hands. It is discussed for the second time since you first proposed that it be merged with another law on nonstate security. If the bill is adopted, it is necessary to amend a number of Ukrainian legislative acts, including the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Act on Entrepreneurship, the Law on Transport, the Law on Communications. That is to say, there must be a message at the time that their protective actions, acts are carried out in compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Protection Act. Dear colleagues, the Constitution states that military, paramilitary formations must be determined only on the basis of law. The situation today is that a number of entrepreneurial structures and state structures have such protective structures that are not regulated by legislation. Thank you. I am ready to answer questions. In the case of the adoption of the Act on Protective Activity in the first reading, the second reading can be thoroughly completed, taking into account your comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u163	I'd like to ask you a question. Please put it on the board. National Deputy Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u164	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU Alexander Markovich, your bill and the fact that it is united, are certainly positive. It has its absolute political, legal, legal relevance, because it eliminates that flaw when we have the same laws that are regulated in the social sphere in one case, in the other, in the Cabinet regulations, in another, in the ominous normative acts, and so on. But I have a question about the effectiveness or ability to work on this bill. Please tell me, will he be able to work without the adoption of the arms law? Security activities and weapons.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u165	By the way, the Committee on Law Enforcement at the previous meeting reviewed the arms bill and recommended that it be considered by the Supreme Council in its first reading. That's what's going on in the context -- the law on weapons and the law on law enforcement. As bills, they are interlinked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u166	National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u167	Thank you. Alexander Markovich, I have a question. I read your law, maybe I didn't quite get it. So please explain the difference between private and state guards, because they all have exactly the same rights, what's their difference? This time. And on the other hand, I've already encountered some private firms, given that you're a national MP, you can't fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u168	Well, the language is that all security structures have to operate according to certain rules, and those that are in private structures, and they have to meet certain requirements. State security structures tend to protect government objects. These are also weapons warehouses mentioned here, both with state resources, and with government agencies. And private individuals can be contracted by a commercial entity under civil law contracts and used at the request of the contracting entity.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u169	Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u170	Thank you very much. What about 50? Ah, bye-bye. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have a question for you, Alexander Markovich: I believe that our society is made up of several classes, groups or groups. They're the first ones being protected, the second is the ones protecting, and the third is the ones nobody needs. These are three groups of these. So how many guards do we have in Ukraine, including private and public? How many people work there? And does this law create, in your opinion, a mechanism for regulating this activity? In what is necessary, there is no doubt about it, and your initiative deserves punishment in this direction -- by enacting the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u171	Thank you. Sergey Ivanovich, you asked the right question and the professional question: how many law enforcement officers do we have? And to do that, it's a law that eventually puts them in charge: how many people have access to weapons to which they can be trusted, eventually, who can be trusted to provide security services. That's what you're looking at today. I can only say how many are in state security. And as many as in entrepreneurial structures, commercial banks, or other semi-legals, no one knows. If we adopt the law, we all have to get a license, get a security clearance, and then we'll see who's who.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u172	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u173	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Alexander Markovich. I want to ask you a question as the head of a special review committee. Today we often see such a trend that there is a struggle for ownership between certain groups. And they often use non-State protection, and sometimes government protection, for such appropriate divisive purposes. To keep my distance, I set an example. It's a nail factory. Fighting for the property of this factory. The Titan company arrives in the middle of the night, at 2 a.m., grabs the factory, forces people to sign agreements at 7 a.m. that they won't strike, masturbate, demand social benefits, and then there's a state security officer with a machine that protects the representatives, the representatives who came to take over the factory, bearing in mind that they have 51 percent of the shares. I mean, isn't there going to be an exaggeration today? Are we going to put in place the licensing plan for these security activities so that the fight between these groups is not used. I generally support your offer, but there will be no further distortions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Valentina. By your example, once again, you have argued the need to enact this law, that the worthlessness or vanity that is now in the area of privatization, when the protective structures are used to compete with the unhealthy, must be eliminated. I am convinced that the law that has been drawn up is purely practical and also practical in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u175	Thank you, Alexander Markovich, time is up. Let's move on to the discussion. National Deputy Carmazin, please. Get Bondarenko ready. Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. All the other titles you're going to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, it only deserves the respect of the attitude of the national deputy Bandurka, Moses and Bartkov, who proposed to regulate the law at the end of the day that there is a de facto existence, but is regulated by the position on the one hand of the State Security Service at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which was approved by the Cabinet, and, on the other hand, by the notorious military guards, they were approved. Kim? According to Homeland Security. Please, the command and the creation of the security guard, the State Liaison and Information Committee have confirmed the status of the paramilitary guard. Is that normal? And answering from this rostrum, Alexander Markovich said that these positions were closely linked to the arms law. When we define all the criteria, to whom, as, on what grounds, an organization may issue weapons, to which individuals it is, we will define everything in the legislative order. I support adoption in the first reading of this law. I'd like to make some warnings. The warnings apply to the fact that the funds and assets obtained in the course of economic activity, namely Article 35, and other incomes, where it is written that they belong to the State Security Service, I want you to agree with the Law on the Sources of Financing for Governmental Authorities. If it's a government authority, if there's government property, government property, government premises, then please, what goes into the budget, and then it goes here. And that's how it gets interesting. Costs of maintenance, pensions and then insurance, the risks of the state. I don’t know if it’s necessary for a unit to have physical powers such as handcuffs, tethers, rubber rods. Her God, I don't know. It's probably a question of discussion. Why? Because, if so, there will have to be a right to such special devices and other structures in order to ensure both competitiveness and some in order to be able to choose from people who will protect them. Of course, there must be an alternative. And the second law of 1242, which says today that a violator may have been delivered by military security personnel to the Service Room of the State Security Service or to the Police, I think we should probably bring a person to the police and have a violator installed there so that human rights are not violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u177	National Deputy Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u178	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, "Our Ukraine". Of course, this bill needs all the support, and I will vote in favour of adopting it in the first reading, but I will continue to work with it, because, like the previous bill, this bill is linked to a huge number of other laws that are in force in Ukraine, it needs to be governed because it builds up its image as a base in this field. What protection is in Ukraine today, each of us can be sure that a huge number of people are stained from parks, forest parks to passing offices, to floors, and marbles of expensive restaurants. All of this is filled with guards. In the driveway of each house is a security guard. Well, you might think we have something else to protect, and that might be a good thing. Perhaps there is someone to protect from, for so many people would have no such application of their skills and work, even though virtually no one had prepared them for security activities in Ukraine. This law is very important because those bearing this term as a guardian have a bearing on weapons and have already been told about it. In my time working at the district level, I once read a compilation that was delivered to me by the police in the morning about the fact that two hostile groups from the North and South Gates of the Electronics Production Union had been shooting all night, over 200 rounds were spent, but no one was injured or killed. At that time, we asked questions about the release of everyone immediately in connection with the fact that they did not know how to shoot. I mean, obviously unprepared people worked there. But it's for fun. But the very question is very important. Why? See, this bill, which is presented, refers to objects of state property, that is, those who have the status of a legal person are called natural persons. And there's a whole bunch of objects that can't be dealt with, and they don't fall within the category of a legal person or a natural person. For example, a residential home. He has no legal personality, but he protects each one individually. They belong to someone else, but each one is protected separately. There are land plots that are now in Kiev and elsewhere, somehow cut off from municipal property, behind the slugbaum, there's a "fifteen" person, collecting money for whom, on the basis of whose rights and so on, is unknown. Those concierges who are in Kiev today are also lawless, have no limits on their duties, and are absolutely not responsible if your apartment is robbed because they have not signed any agreements with anyone on this matter. The same is true of the President’s Administration, which cut off large pieces of Kiev’s city territory, set it up as a fence and for what reasons it protects it. That is why I believe that we need to adopt this law in our first reading today, but we need to make sure that these guards are not gardeners who do not have their rights, their duties, those who want them, and those who do not fear them. The law must be worked out, but it must be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u179	National MP Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u180	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, discussions with my colleague Bandurka, has been going on for many years with regard to the bill itself, because there are several fundamental differences and visions of future protection activities. What are they all about? First. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is a budget structure? Budget. The State Security Service, which is kind of in the knowledge of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is that a budget structure? No, not budget, it's a calculation structure. Now it will be relied upon by appropriate authority, coming out of the draft law. So there's an attempt to monopolize protective activity. We have other legislation, other laws, especially on entrepreneurial activities, where other protective structures are allowed to be created and they are now in force, but they are illegal. So our task as legislators is to make such a law that it makes it impossible to monopolize security activities with one structure that is under the IMF, although it should not actually be within the IMF structure as a computational structure. And on the other hand, to give more rights to non-State security organizations, because then there'll be a full monopoly on just one structure. These are the differences that we have with our colleague Bandurka from many of the previous references to this bill. Unfortunately, this bill retains some of the trends, i.e. the monopolization of State Security activities. I'm not saying any more that there must be a clear interaction and renegotiation between this law and the arms law, because these are two interconnected things, and the laws apart from each other cannot exist. In order to move the adoption process of the bill from a dead point of view, I can say that I can go to certain compromises and call on the faction of "Our Ukraine" to adopt the bill in the first reading on one condition: when a colleague of Bandurka in his closing word makes a public commitment that until the second reading of the bill from contradiction and monopolization of protective activity, only one structure will be removed. Otherwise, I will not see the opportunity to vote positively myself and to urge my colleagues from the faction to vote positively. If that is the answer, I think we'll be inclined to make a positive decision for our faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u181	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone, Alexander Markovich Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u182	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Everyone who has spoken supports the bill and I agree with the comments and with what my colleague Manchulenko said, we had a conversation with him on the subject. I agree, and I'll take his suggestions into account, and I'll just work with him personally on the recommendations and those that Mr. Carmazin has made, and they're just as right as what's been said in your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed and the decision will be decided on the day of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider 12 questions after the break. We're going to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, this is where the proposal to take a break was made. Let's take a break and then work effectively and hard, all the more that we're going to have a brief discussion. Then we'll look at it with a packet, it's suggested. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We can't continue our work at 4:00, otherwise we can't do it, because there's going to be a violation of everyone's professional standards.
