ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There are 302 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. People's deputies are invited to sign up for statements, messages, and suggestions. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to make sure that we follow the rules. I'm asking our technical service to turn off the microphones after three minutes. Dear colleagues, before I announce the questions that have come, let me announce that today is the day of the birth of the National Deputy of Ukraine, our colleague, Bronnikov Vladimir Kostinović. Let's welcome him, wish him every success. [[Applause]] Such requests were made by Ukrainian national deputies. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the use of the deputy head of the Kirovograd District Authority as Vice-President of the United States of America for useful purposes. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "To" - 134. Decision taken. Jury Lucenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to transfer 100 percent of the shares of the open shareholding company Komsomol Rudo-government, which are part of the statutory fund of the State Shareholder Company Krudprom. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "To." 44. The decision is not taken. Sergia Slabenka - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction with the response to the State's debt to the Volin region's farmers. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "To" - 38. The decision is not taken. Vitalia Oluyka and groups of national deputies from the Hmeljna region to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the review of revenue planning in the area of income tax. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "To" - 95. Decision taken. A repeat request from the Ukrainian Prime Minister for the Cabinet of Ministers order of 5 July 2002 for approval of a list of documents and groups of goods that are protected by holographic protective elements adopted in violation of current legislation. [[Tsushko, Pinzenik, Cherniak, Aloshin]] I'll bet you a vote on the direction. I'd like to make a statement. "To" - 53. The decision is not taken. Vladimir Puzakov - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of passenger transport arrangements in the city of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "To" - 87. The decision is not taken. Vladimir Puzakov - to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the facts of the illegal actions concerning the participants in the "Resurrection, Ukraine!" in Kirovograd district. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "To" - 82. The decision is not taken. Anatolya Moroza is the Acting Head of the State Automobile Inspection Authority in Zaporozhye district regarding the laziness of his official duties as a member of the Coastal State Auto-Inspector during a road accident. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "To" - 92. Decision taken. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prosecutor of the Hersonian Region in connection with his dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s appeal regarding the falsification of the decision of the Provincial Council of the Kalanchi district of Hersson. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. I'd like to make up my mind. "To" - 58. The decision is not taken. Jury Solomatina - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation on 24 September 2002 by police officers of the Ukrainian National Deputy's right to move freely to the Supreme Council building at 6/8 Bankov Street. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "To" - 101. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Let us move on to the announcement of requests, statements, messages, and proposals by the national MPs. Please sign up. Please point to the board. National MP Chicanov, Communist faction. Prepare the National MP, Mishuri. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u2	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word to Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u3	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u4	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The latest developments in our country -- the events of the last days, the last hours and, you might say, the last few minutes -- confirm once again that those opposition factions who urged the Supreme Council yesterday asked you to support their proposal to address the urgent and sinister issue of the political situation in Ukraine were absolutely right. If the Supreme Council doesn't come back and look at this issue, what's going on in society will only get worse. If we, the national electorate, are out of the question, each of us understands how this can end. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can yell as much as you want, it's your wish and your right. Keep yelling louder. I think it's unlikely that those of you who quietly heard a statement from the President's Administration yesterday, and Alexander Mikolayovich Karpov was quite happy to hear it as a nine, know that your instructions to the strong organs have practically begun to come into existence. In the middle of the night, representatives of the Attorney General’s Office appeared to a large group of nationals and wanted to do the same thing this morning with the national deputies as they did on the night of September 16 - 17. [[You know, about 50 people's deputies from yesterday after this minute are in the President's Office trying to meet with the head of state, but he's ignoring this meeting, but the Attorney General's Office has not ignored the statements made by members of the people's deputies, I deeply, truly doubt whether all the national MPs on behalf of the nines have agreed to sign this statement.]] True, when a representative of the Attorney-General, who came and read the request of a part of the national MPs to force them out of their premises, asked them to give a copy of this order to the Attorney-General, he went away and, fortunately, did not return to the President's Administration, that is, the force methods had not been applied. I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I know and I want to inform another part of the national MPs that yesterday, when you returned from the service, you carried out your mission as Head of Parliament and did everything you could to bring about a similar meeting between the head of state and a group of national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u5	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Mishur’s national deputy transferred his time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u7	Thank you, Valery Dmitrievich. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down. We agreed, and I said that after three minutes the microphone would turn off. If they've passed the time. Anatoly Sergiyovich! Let's be tolerant! Go on, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u9	Thank you. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am speaking on behalf of those factions whose representatives are in the President's Office for the moment and have declared an untimely famine. I'd like to do this right now: because there are our colleagues there, to announce a recess at the Supreme Council meeting, you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to continue that peacekeeping mission that you started yesterday, and you've been conducting it until late at night, now to reconnect with the President and insist that such a meeting take place. Because, according to recent reports, the President is willing to meet not all representatives of the President's Administration, but only a group of two or three national MPs. Of course, each of the national deputies has the right to meet. And I'd like to ask that we now do enough and sufficiently in solidarity -- announce a recess at the Supreme Council meeting until the President of the State meets with a large group of national deputies who are now in the President's Administration. I'd like to talk to those nine-year-old colleagues. Dear National Deputies! Each of you understands or should at any rate be aware that we, the national MPs, are elected to the Supreme Council, the independent authority. Each of you, if you want to think about the future, and I'm sure everyone thinks about this future, it has to come out that if not today, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, not the next day, the situation will be completely different in two years at most. And I'd be very sorry if those of you who go out to this rostrum today and say one thing, two years from now, start, sorry, singing the exact opposite. I want to remind you of one of the winged expressions of one of the biggest supporters of President Karpov's administration, who, speaking from this rostrum when he thought he was a Democrat, said, "Who is Kuchma? Is he the one who works for the President's Tobacco Administration?" Those were his words. I'm sure two years from now, Karpov will be on this rostrum, and he won't go singing to the president today, and he'll be disgraced. And I wouldn't want you to laugh at Ukrainian society. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! People's Honourable Chosen Ones! I ask you very much to support the proposal to call a recess, to put it to a vote before solving a conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u10	Thank you. National Deputy Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u11	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! Dear voters! By referring to the famous expression that Russian is big and powerful, I would like to say that Ukrainian is also quite large and quite powerful. But we've been using some terminology very freely lately. In particular, reports appear in our media outlets, such as television and radio, laughing around the world, that thirty deputies have captured a telecentre of several thousand square feet [3,000 sq m]. Then, when it became clear that it was really a laughing matter, they added up to thirty figures of two hundred, even though not even that many people were there. Continuing the thesis that Adam Ivanovich expressed, I would like to support and I would like to support the Hall, the proposal that has now come out of the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to yesterday’s reports by the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General regarding the events that took place from September 16 to 17, I have, say, my own explanation for what was happening. Someone might agree, someone might not, but I've already said that and I'm standing on it. I can view this as a kind of revenge on police officers in the 9 March 2001 events, when the police, in a mild sense, did not look very convincing in the actions that have taken place, for the charges that have recently been made against members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, when up to 40 police officers are directly or indirectly involved in the killing of people, and obviously I can view this as a kind of revenge for the fact that the image of a militia employee has recently fallen into the population because they are increasingly taking over police and not militia functions. [[I have that kind of reason anyway.]] And another problem I'd like to raise. Yesterday there was a presentation of the State Budget project for 2003. So I'm in the position of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons to say that there's once again an attempt to balance the State Budget project with the poorest of the population. Once again we see the suspension of aids for large population categories, we also see a new phenomenon -- in particular the introduction of the Cabinet of Ministers 253 decree on the so-called strategy for replacing the social benefits system.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u12	Peter Stepanovich, your time is up. Thank you. People's MP Løvin, faction of SDPU. Please. Following him is the National Deputy Alexeyev, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u13	First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Construction, Transport and Communications (the large-ranking national constituency, SDPU(o)). I would like to give the floor to the people's representative, Zajc Vladimir Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u14	The people's representative of the Hare. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u15	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour (managed national constituency, SDPU(o)). Your Honor is presiding! Dear National Deputies! In fact, about a situation in a state that was clearly identified as a systemic crisis by everyone in the talks yesterday. I don't want to get involved in this conversation, because neither of the speakers yesterday nor today have offered any prescriptions for getting out of that systemic crisis. And the slogan, "Get Kuchma!", believe me, you're not going to call the system. In addition, when it comes to crisis phenomena, they are most likely to have a place in the walls of this room -- in Parliament. What is the reason for the crisis in Parliament, as I see it today, as our faction sees it? The thing is, we don't want to accept the political realities that have already come together, and we're looking for an excuse for why we're doing this, and we don't want to find the formulas for peaceful coexistence between the political forces that are in this sessional room. This can be proved by examining the diagnosis that occurred here yesterday. Diagnosis number one — the people have chosen one another, and others are given authority. Believe me, with all due respect, 25 percent for the winners is not the basis for serious claims against the fullness of power. Moreover, in 1998, when the Communists claimed to do so, these claims were rejected. Another claim, such as that a person, along with an environment, usurped power. There are proposals to renounce the demagogies, to take up the Constitution, and to see whose authority the President assumed. And if this is going to happen, then we have to constitutionally regulate it. So the approach is the same as in the economy: if the slogan "Get a shadow economy" doesn't work, you have to adopt the Tax Code. As for the realisation of the slogan itself, "Get Kuchma!".. I don't want to discuss the contradiction of evidence or the absence of a mechanism to implement this slogan. The reason for his existence is that the power to fight is constantly needed, and this fight is not going to stop. At the threshold of the presidential election, the political forces were already involved in the fight. And it's clear that this slogan can't be implemented by anyone, so the entire session hall thinks. What is the reason? That's the reason. The electorate that brought the political forces here needs to be kept in a state of combat readiness, tense, because presidential elections are about to take place. And that's a fact. As for the majority in Parliament, it is essential that it function effectively, with or without social democrats. The approach is understandable. You can ignore 36 factions, but you can't ignore the 2 million voters behind this faction. At least a person who claims to be the leader of an entire nation cannot think that way. Our proposals, our approach. Let's look for a period of stability, a year and a half before the presidential election. Let's expand the circle of negotiators -- less ambition, more pragmatism. Let us define the most important legislative acts, and let us form the structure of the majority. And as long as we don't accept these most important pieces of legislation, this majority can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u16	National MP Alexeyev, Communist faction. Prepare the People's Deputy Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u17	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[multi-mandatory constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word to the national deputy of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u18	People's deputy Matvienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u19	Aolo's Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] Thank you, colleague Alexei. Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear colleagues! I am now addressing all the deputies who call themselves colleagues, and this is sincere. We need to understand that it is now a matter of whether we are able to defend the dignity and honour of the MP and the entire Supreme Council, or not. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you and my fellow MPs. Are you going to help us figure out which streets are under ban today? I understand we're not allowed to go to the President's Administration, but if we're not allowed to move in the streets and in Kiev, I don't know. I understand that maybe not all citizens are right now, I understand that maybe they don't have the right to be cynics. But on what grounds, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is forbidden for the people's deputies to walk the streets of Kiev, I want to know. Because I don't want to be brutally plundered by the Soviets and his amazements and pushed by all the strong structures that I have no right to go into one street or another. The other one. Dear National Deputies! You know it's not the state's protection that protects the Supreme Council today, it's the police? I met the police, the blacks who took over the Supreme Council yesterday in the Supreme Council, and they wouldn't let the deputies join the boards of the Supreme Council, nor leave these committees. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you: do we have a commander today, do we have security, and do we have the safety of even national deputies in the Supreme Council? And finally, third. Dear National Deputies! Well, let's not hide our heads in the sand! Well, we don't understand that today's most constructive position is to remove the nipple and release the breath from our Ukraine, to clean this Ukraine of the dirt, and to allow it to breathe freely today. The guarantor today is the nipple. And if we don't, we won't do anything in this Ukraine. I want to call you: don't you understand that Ukraine is now at stake? If the American and other foreign services already recognize the authenticity of the records, if this is what the whole world is talking about today, do you, I'm talking to the prokuchmian factions, don't you understand that leaving this to us without discussion and without a proper response is betraying Ukraine? I urge you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this Supreme Council cannot keep quiet. We must begin the impeachment procedure. Only the issue of recording and arms trade puts Ukraine at risk today, makes Ukraine a different coin in the great world of tension - Iraq, Russia, and the United States. Ukraine will lose itself at all. I urge you: it's a democratic procedure, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u20	Thank you. I want to protect "Our Ukraine" in "Our Ukraine" doesn't choke the air, I think you'll support me in this. Vernigora gives the word to the national MP Nikolaynka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u21	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Electoral District 187, Herson District]] The faction of the Socialist Party. Dear National Deputies! There have now been consultations between four MP groups and factions that offer after a break in solidarity with those 50 colleagues who are currently in the office of the President's Administration, leaving this room and not working until our colleagues are with us. We would ask all of you to support such an offer. And this moment is possible for a normal human conversation by the President of Ukraine with representatives of these factions representing a good dozen million voters. In our opinion, this civilized conversation was due to take place on September 16th, when more than 100,000 voters, and across Ukraine, up to one million, took part in the "Resurrection, Ukraine!" And asked for the President's request. These requirements were prepared, negotiated with the head of the Administration, and a group of national deputies prepared for this meeting. Sadly, this meeting did not take place. At the last minute, the president said he didn't want to meet. I think the President has to meet with any Ukrainian citizen -- whether he's a deputy or not. Three factions have just submitted a joint application for the signatures of Alexander Moroz, Julius Timoshenko, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek, and I have to read it. Statement on confirmation by official authorities of foreign countries of the prohibited arms trade in Ukraine State authorities and information agencies in the United States, Britain, and other countries have officially acknowledged the violation by Ukraine of United Nations sanctions for the prohibition of the trade in arms and special technologies, materials with certain countries. What had happened was foretold in the face of assurances from the superior leadership of our nation. You can't hide what is said to be sewn in a bag, you can't lie about the truth. It's bad for Ukraine. There are all kinds of sanctions against the state by international society. This could mean blocking all our economic contacts, imposing an embargo, breaking diplomatic relations, and other sanctions with disastrous consequences for society, for the state. As opposition representatives, we are strongly protesting the oppression of Ukraine’s interests, and we would not want to do so. At the same time, we understand the right to hold specific officials accountable, first of all the President, for the consent and patronage of which international acts have been committed. We urge the immediate holding of a closed Parliamentary meeting with the participation of senior heads of state and structures involved in illegal operations. We find that it's not about trade, it's about stealing the government's resources, because there's not a penny of this trade in the budget. We are obliged to explain to the people of Ukraine and to the international community the content of the alternative to Kuchma or Ukraine. We have always been and will remain patriots in the struggle for democratic development.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u22	Thank you. National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine. Please turn on the microphone of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u23	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Please pass the word Boyko Vladimir Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u24	Boyko Volodymyr Seminovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u25	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I went to this rostrum for the first time, and I can express my opinion on what is going on in Ukraine, because I understand very well that we are not doing what we need to do. Here was the vote on the request for the Komsomol ore administration. I don't understand this opposition team at all. Have them come down to Komsomolsk and talk to the people. Normal life, I assure you, come to us, we'll show you. I just want to ask the Government about the value added tax. We need to focus on the economy here and think about how our country is better to live, and so that the Supreme Council does not adopt a law that is contrary to another law. The Value Added Tax Act clearly states that the manufacturer himself chooses the form of VAT on imports — bills or money. But it is a law that repeals these approaches. What is the law to enforce? We need to figure this out. But he's been paid to the government. The Government also decrees that all VAT on imports should be paid with living money. What about VAT return? There is, in principle, no question of how to calculate the issue of how to give this VAT. Therefore, my appeal to the Government is very simple: this order must be repealed immediately from 16 numbers. Please take this statement into account as my official statement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u26	National MP Matthews, Communist faction. Prepare the National Deputy Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u27	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Considering that about 50 of our colleagues have been in the office of the President's Administration for almost a day now, we, the faction of Communists, insist that a break be declared, settled this issue, and then we continue to work. For the rest of the time, I want to hand over Ivan Sidorovich Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u28	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u29	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Yesterday, 50 national deputies went to the Bank's residence of the President and found themselves in the cave of a cave savage. These are not my words, these are the words of the patriarch of our faction, John Vasilovich Spodarenko, but these are very precise words. And it's really a cave of savages, because in this cave of savages with national paraphernalia, people who were chosen by the Ukrainian people are treated like cattle. The President's orders have closed the toilets, the water's closed. The national MP of Baranowski, who had a hypertonic crisis, was no longer allowed for a doctor’s hour. Please tell me, isn't that savagery? It's not idiotism? What we've been through! That's one thing. The second thing I want to say. Here was a comrade or a gentleman from SDPU(o) and said it was a systemic political crisis and here was the slogan "Goth Kuchma!" There's nothing to solve. No, the question is that the organizer, the instigator of this crisis, is Kuchma. And if Kuchma comes out of office as president, the throat of Ukraine will be untied, and Ukraine's repression will be halted. What's going on? Here's what's going on. The Kuchma is struggling with the political crisis of the Criminal Code. You can't think of a bigger fool than that. It's like a violinist playing a violin with a sickle or a hair. It's also idiocy. And the fact that the Supreme Council is already excited by the police who are wandering on the floor of the President's Administration -- it also says that this is savagery, and savagery, which is said to be unwarranted. We are not a police country, and our authorities are in no danger. The President himself is in no danger, and what his people do not want is the right of the people to say that we do not want to. And you can't police the state in any way. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In this situation, you, as Head of the Supreme Council, should display wisdom.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u30	Thank you. People's MP Gurov, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u31	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[electoral district 32, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] Dear colleagues! Yesterday, with regard to the budget prospects for the following year, our Prime Minister said: “The main one is economy, economy, economy”. The economy will work, then political disputes can be resolved in a slightly different way, and it will be possible to talk about the security of those who stood under the walls of Parliament yesterday. Let us take a closer look at what we are doing now. You see, the village is dying, the army is dying, Donbas is dying. The elemental question: what are we going to do with all this? There's one industry that's still shaking, still living, that's black metal. But look what's happening to this black and beautiful metal industry that gives money that gives money that gives life to our workers. The law approved by us, the Supreme Council, prohibits the export of scrap metal abroad. This is our bread. There's wheat bread, and there's metal. Would it seem easier? Take it and ban it because we feed our rivals. The Prime Minister has been holding paper for a month, not signed. At a pace, they started to move even more. Our factories are shut down. The second question is the exchange rate issue. Because we are able to export, and of course this course is not right for us. Question three. They did very well to set a quota for imports of iron and steel. Okay? It's okay. So you're going to think, twice is always going to be four, not three. And now there are no 300,000 tons of raw materials. The factories have stopped, too. Dear friends! Think about it! There are markets now. Prices in international markets are as high as ever. The currency is coming, and at that time the Government has stopped funding. We don't ask for money, we say, "Let's breathe." I fully support the statement made by my colleague Boyko. There was a retreat of the Industrial Policy Committee in Donetsk, and there was a referral. I'm handing it to our Speaker of Lithuania. And the last question is Krivbassa. If we don't pay attention to this iron ore cousin soon, we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The time for statements, reports, information is exhausted. I would like to inform you that there is a meeting of the President with representatives of the People's Deputies who called for a meeting with the President. I don't think we need to do anything, and we've reached such an agreement with those people's deputies, our colleagues who are in the President's Office. The meeting is happening, let's keep working quietly. The other one. Regarding the protection of the Supreme Council. Yesterday at your request, Anatoly Sergiyovich, I ran a background check, met with the commander. The security of the Supreme Council’s premises is provided exclusively by the State Protection Authority. I don't think we should confuse the street with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u33	Anatoly Sergiyovich! I also said no one would come in. Anatoly Sergiyovich, I listened to you carefully, don't shout, it won't help. Third. As far as Iraq is concerned. I'd ask you, it's a joy to have the country disgraced today. Dear colleagues! I want to give you information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I have a proposition: let's create an investigative commission, and let the investigative commission study this issue. [[I've got the proper information from this department, I'll distribute it.]] [[We're always ready to create a follow-up commission.]] And I want to get to your acquaintance and to know the journalists: I don't want to list the names of the national MPs who are very often in Iraq, making them cooperate with Iraq, forcing the president, forcing the government to do so, and at the same time, the honourable colleagues are putting pressure on it! So I'm proposing to the Defence and National Security Committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to make a proposal to create an inquiry committee, and let it study these issues properly so that we can hold meetings and not cross the facts, because there are no official statements on these issues. The information that is in the media, I would ask, honourable colleagues, not to turn it into a political line and not to complicate the state of the country. Dear colleagues! Now let's move on to the agenda. The word for replication is given to Karpov, whose name was Karpov. Please. Please, dear fellows, don't call names, or we'll have to listen to them all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u34	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! In his own time, Napoleon said: “All the evil in this world is from people of small growth. One such person of small size, acting as Cassandra, had a conversation about the future through the past. So I remind you about your democratic "tub" exchange of ballots during the Spikeriad vote. [[I don't want to, but as Father Fedor said, not for my sake, but for the will of my wife who sent me.]] And one of your chiefs earlier on live said, "We're being accused of having, well, I'll say, different people." So I say there are smart people among us. I don't think that's true of anyone who's speaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u35	People's deputy Kluev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u36	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[constituency 46, Donetsk Region]] Dear colleagues! We have a bill on our agenda today, number 1111-d, "the draft Law on the Income Tax of Persons". It's a very important and very bad document. All the rapporteurs are in the room, the bill has been prepared by the committee for consideration. And I would like to ask the distinguished colleagues, the distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich, to put this issue first today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any objection to the offer of Clovis?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to remind you that according to the Rules we had half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u39	The transfer? If you don't mind, we won't be asking that question, that's all. Dear colleagues, the time for applications is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I repeat, today is not a faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the work of the Supreme Council is blocked and there is a requirement to give the floor, I propose to act in accordance with democratic traditions: to vote on whether to give the word or not. If you support -- let's give it, no -- the word won't be given. I'm voting on the proposal of the faction "Our Ukraine" to give a word to the deputy Philenck. Please make up your mind. "For" - 152. The decision is not taken. Let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u41	You study the Rules, then you come to teach me. All of it. Viacheslav, read the Rules, then you come, we'll talk. Dear colleagues, according to the order of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs! From the Communist faction, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk proposed a recess. How long does it take to take a break?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u42	I'm betting on the vote that Martiniuk Adam Ivanovich announce a one-hour recess. People's deputies, please identify yourself. Please. "For" - 118. The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that the work of the Supreme Council is being blocked in accordance with article 3.8. I'll call it a half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u43	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. Dear colleagues! Today we were to consider the draft Law on the Approval of Living Minimum for 2003. The minister’s office addressed a letter proposing that the bill be withdrawn in response to the need for its work. Therefore, the next question of the order of the day is brought to your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! There's an appropriate Rules, I'm acting clearly under the Rules. Once again, dear colleagues, as long as I am the Head of the Supreme Council, I will act in accordance with the principles laid down in the Rules. You won't be in charge. I gave my word for it, and I don't need to be taught. Please study the Rules, and then we'll talk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Viachaslave, you are a wise man, I tell you in English that there is a recording, and according to the recording, there are performances. We had to come to the hall at the right time and sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u45	Where? Find me. Take your seats, I'll give you a chance to step out of the procedure. I'm asking you to take your seats, please. People's deputy Philenko. I'm out of procedure. One minute. Please turn on the microphone. Turn off the microphone in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u46	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you. Then I have to speak quickly and essentially. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday at the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, I was physically assaulted by the National Deputy of Ukraine as Deputy Chief of Administration Ishchenk Alexi during my photo shoot. After that, I received a physical threat. She literally sounded like, "I'm going to meet you on the street, I'm going to kill you!".. I believe that I, my family, are in danger of physical execution. I ask you, Mr. Head, to send a transcript of my speech to the Attorney General of Ukraine as my official statement. And the last. The picture I took here, I'm going to show it to the journalists. It's a bunch of armed men in the administration and in her yard.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u47	Thank you. I got it. Dear colleagues, I think we're about to make a mission to the Attorney General's Office in connection with the situation that the People's Deputy Philenko has referred to. With regard to the matter of the premises of the Supreme Council. I'm asking Hennady Andrievich Vasiliev to officially prepare information for the national MPs. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of imports of agricultural products. [[on the elimination of seasonal duties on fruit production]] Reporter - Minister of Agrarian Politics Sergey Mikolayovich Ribuk Please. How much time do you need? In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u48	Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the Cabinet of Ministers has introduced a draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Import of Agricultural Products. The changes relate to the specific repeal of Article 2 and Article 3. [[Seasonal Meals for Fertile Production]] [[Animal production quotas]] Why was it necessary to make changes to this law? First. One of the priorities for Ukraine's external economic activity is its integration into the EU. The bill was drafted with the aim of harmonising Ukrainian legislation with the requirements and standards of the Agriculture Agreement, which regulates relations in agriculture of WTO member countries. The other one. Of course, the question arises: Will the situation in the internal market be worsened with regard to the protection of the domestic market for fruit and animal products? We've analyzed this question in depth and we'll tell you that it's not going to get any worse, and that's why. Articles 2 and 3 have not actually worked since the act of this law. Seasonal duties on fertility production have never been established. The import volumes of all animal production during the years 1998-2000 were 0.13 - 2.25 percent of the production volume of this product in Ukraine, i.e. they did not reach the 10 percent required by law, so the import quotas for animal production were not set. Third. The draft law is long under consideration, and article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of imports of agricultural products stipulates that Article 3 of the Law on the Non-tariff Regulation of Imports of Animal Production is in force until 1 January 2003. And one more thing is most important. The fact is that cancelling these articles does not mean cancelling the quota itself, because quotas and restrictions of imports are provided for by two more laws - the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act and the new Ukrainian Customs Code. That is, by cancelling articles 2 and 3, we will ensure further improvement of the negotiating process on economic cooperation with the EU, without prejudice to the interests of our producers. Moreover, price policies are favourable today, and 95 percent of domestic production is consumed. Thus, we ask the Supreme Council to accept such a law and to repeal those articles 2 and 3. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Any questions to the reporter? Please sign up. Five minutes to ask how the Agrarian Policy Committee proposes. Please. Please put the information on the board. National deputy of Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u50	Mariupol. Dear Sergey Nikolaevich! The proposed measures are understandable. But any State, any producer, has always sought to protect its own production in order to ensure its competitiveness, normal, so to speak, the movement of its goods in the markets. Today, there are many factors that are contributing to the uncompetitiveness of our products. It's both the cost of technology and the state of the technology and the state of the complex as a whole. Would you like to hear an honest and frank opinion: is this a requirement for Ukraine to join the WTO or is it really a need caused by time, and this will not affect the vitality of our village and the agricultural producer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u51	I'll give you an honest and brief answer. Yes, this is one of the requirements for entering the WTO. At present, 95 percent of the questions about SATs have been agreed upon. There is a need for our agricultural producer to integrate its legislation into European legislation so that there can be competition between products. In fact, today our production, this is recognized by Europe, is competitive both at price and at quality. [[Because wages are low, and material resources are cheap, and the structure of self-worth is unfortunately due to muscle strength, but wins.]] But standards are not yet adapted to Europeans, and we will not be able to adapt them until this is resolved. That's the first one. The other one. What is more important: stay here and protect our domestic producer or integrate into the EU? We come from the fact that we do have to move forward, because in this case both of these articles are just a hindrance to this, and in practice they don't work, because there's no need for that. Moreover, in addition to the Law on the Regulation of Imports of Agricultural Products, there is the Customs Tariff and Customs Code Act, under which we could also apply this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u52	Dear Alexander Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u53	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[electoral district 213, Kiev]] Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich! I have just a question about the development of a question that was asked by a respected colleague of Matthew’s. Tell me, please, this is about the introduction of Ukraine to the WTO, how did you find out for yourself as minister that this is a requirement of the WTO? Since you are no longer the first on this rostrum to say that a legislative act is a requirement either for entry into the European Union or for possible accession to the World Trade Organization, then it turns out that you did not really mean it. I'm very interested in your belief that this law is necessary in order to take a step to meet the WTO. [[including in connection with the statements made by the Deputy Prime Minister on agriculture that even comment on his speech, as if we did not need to join the SOTA.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u54	Thank you. A few days ago, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy held a major scientific and practical conference on STO issues with the participation of two vice-prime ministers, our scientists. We looked at all these questions again and looked at the official list. Of course, it is a question of how it is, and it is a requirement. Moreover, I was twice on my way to Switzerland, where we all considered tariff quotas without exception. I know which countries insist on different positions. You know, I'll be honest with you: for a long time, I've been an open opponent in opening our borders and letting things go. But since we've grown hugely in the third consecutive year, without exception, the export of animal production in the past year has increased almost twice, practically the total increase in the production of animal production is going to export and the vast majority of its share to Europe, I've found that the best protection of the domestic internal market is enough of its own production and quality, harmonization of legislation, alignment of tariffs, etc. with the requirements of the European economy. Thus, as this law has been shown for three years, there is no danger here either in theory or in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u55	Masenko, the Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u56	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Sergey Mikolaiovich! By this bill, you're all over Ukraine and you're all over Europe, and you're stressing that we can't provide our population with agricultural products, whatever you say, if we want to cancel these kinds of products. But tell me this: For agricultural production of Ukrainian enterprises, there are such benefits in other countries? Are we going to meet or are we just going to meet everyone, and our farmers, as they got 300 or 250 dollars for a ton of wheat, are they selling everywhere? Farmers grow, grow, and have virtually nothing. Why do we have such foolish policies regarding our agricultural producer?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u57	In all the countries that are members of the WTO, there are no advantages, but there are no sectoral benefits -- and this is the most important, first requirement of the World Trade Organization. That's the first one. The other one. We, agree with me, should not enter the WTO later than Russia. Sooner or later, we're going to go in there, and sooner or later, because if that happens later, we're going to have a lot of trouble in the market and with Russia and with the SND countries. It is best to join together and pursue one policy in this regard. I respect your opinion, but it doesn't exactly match mine. When we propose this project, we do not recognize that we lack it. We're now saying that if there's reproduction, it's artificial, because our people's low payability. However, we do have two other laws to regulate the import of agricultural products. In fact, the export volumes of this product are much higher than the imports, and this year, too. Thus, articles 2 and 3 of the aforementioned law, which are proposed to be repealed, artificially prevents us from continuing the negotiation process and from opening up as a civilized country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u58	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Time's up. A member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Mikhailo Mikhailovich Poljancic, is invited to participate in the report. Please, Michael Mikhailovich. How long do you need? Coroner's asking for three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u59	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[electoral district 168, Ternopil region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee has carefully considered a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Import of Agricultural Products, which is proposed to be excluded from the current Ukrainian law, articles 2 and 3, which Minister Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk just spoke about. We have studied this issue in detail, examined the information of the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics and the issues of European integration, other ministries of interest and information, as well as the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office on this bill. During an active discussion of the bill, we were convinced that its adoption would not create any inconveniences and would no longer harm a domestic farmer. The committee therefore unanimously accepted the legislative proposal of the President of Ukraine. The committee noted that article 3, which gave the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the right to establish annual quotas for imports of animal products, had never been applied since the adoption of the law in 1997, since there was no need to do so. Moreover, I would like to say that this article is limited to 1 January 2003, after which it will automatically disappear from the current legislation of Ukraine. The government also did not introduce seasonal duties for 2000 and 2001, as provided for in article 2, which is now proposed to be removed. Today, seasonal duties are needed for certain types of agricultural production, but this is all provided for in the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act adopted in 2001. In light of what I have said, please support the bill and accept it as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. The Noshchenko People's Deputy, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u61	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 160, Sumska oblast]] Dear reporter! The repeal of article 2 of the law will result in Ukraine’s loss of an important tool for protecting our production, the establishment of seasonal myths. In this regard, it is necessary not only to cancel the Institute of Seasonal Time but to adjust the rules of the article in accordance with the requirements of Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture. Did he take this committee’s conclusion into account? If not, I very much ask you to consider this in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u62	I agree with you, but I have already stressed that article 2 is proposed to be deleted because all the necessary seasonal duties for certain agricultural products are regulated by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, adopted in 2001. There is much to do with the law to which it is proposed to make changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u63	National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u64	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Michael Mikhailovich! You said the adoption of this law wouldn't hurt. The basic principle of Hippocrates in medicine: no harm. But will this benefit, and what will it do? Is this not a political decision at all? Perhaps more radical measures are needed to support a domestic producer? How will the adoption of the bill in our policy of supporting a domestic producer be countered? Will it harm this policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u65	I don't think it's going to hurt, because, in fact, almost everything in this article that the committee is proposing to delete is also in the Customs Tariff Act. In fact, the Customs Tariff Act regulates the issue of seasonal myths and so forth, as does article 2 of this Law. So it's almost one thing to repeat the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u66	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u67	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[electoral district 79, Zaporezki region]] Thank you. Zaporozhye, faction of the SDPU. Dear Michael Mikhailovich! In the Supreme Council of the past, there were hot and lively debates about the problem of the export moment for sunflower seeds. And remember, it was the introduction of a seasonal moment for sunflower seeds that enabled us then to save the oil-fat sector of Ukraine, save tens of thousands of jobs and the low price of oil. I would like to ask you a further question from a colleague of Noshchenka, would you like to raise my doubts that this bill, aimed at the harmony of an international organization in order to enter it, would not harm a domestic producer, particularly a agricultural producer?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u68	Mr. Jaroslave, I was essentially involved in drafting laws to protect the production of our oil-fat industry. And in principle, I've already said, and once again, all of these issues are regulated by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, which contains an article, which is exactly the same as this article, so its removal will not harm at all in this respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u69	People's Deputy Colonyari, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u70	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. [[constituency 56, Donetsk Region]] Mariupol. I ask you whether this bill has been discussed in other committees and what is the outcome of this discussion? Because, in principle, we are taking a very unpopular step for our farmers. Again, references to international agreements, to the trade organization, to the fact that these acts of Parliament will not harm our producers of agricultural products, although the view of most producers on this amendment is negative. Moreover, you mention that it will no longer work in January 2003. Why is such haste and to whom does it benefit, can you answer that question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u71	I think if we've taken a step towards the World Trade Organization, then our nation must be protected. This is, let us say, the requirement of the European Union and the World Trade Organization. That's the first one. The other one. Has the bill been discussed in other committees? We made our proposals to other committees, but there were no comments from them. So the agrarian committee considered and supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u72	Thank you, Michael Mikhailovich. The list of those who want to ask questions is exhausted. Thank you. Have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. Is there a need to discuss? If you would like to discuss it, please sign in. There's a People's Deputy of Ivanov, the People's Landing Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u73	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[constituency 3, Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Deputies! Why did I come to this rostrum? Because I have an agricultural district. All three areas had just begun to rise. I recall 1994-1995, when my region was almost flooded with imported agriculture. One of the reasons why agriculture had stopped was that we had freely imported import products. If we take at least the last four years of the State's report and see what's been taken into our country, we'll see a pretty pathetic picture. So when I discuss this bill, I would like to focus on: what is WTO and what does it give us? Let's go back to the events when we were clearly promised to shut down the Chernobyl nuclear station and get some compensation right away. What did we get this day? Nothing. Today we are told that we will enter the WTO and immediately open the door to Europe, and we will start trading well and comfortably. Is that so? Therefore, as long as there is no full economic justification for joining the WTO, I would not be in a hurry to pass this law. And the second. Even if we adopt this law, we need to think very carefully today when it should take effect. Perhaps we will lead him to the time when the WTO will be ready to accept us. We will now allow one or two years to bring import products to our house, we will completely destroy our agriculture, and in two years we will talk about repealing this law. Therefore, I would like to think before passing this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, there are no more willing to share in the discussion. I'm looking at the list-- there's no statement from the rostrum. We'll decide on Thursday. Dear colleagues! The next question is the draft Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies. I'd like to consult. A number of committees insist that we discuss the matter quickly before we discuss it thoroughly. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! I suggest we don't take breaks right now, because we're only working till 14 o'clock. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask that you listen carefully and express your attitude. It is proposed that the draft Law on Income Taxes and the draft Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies be considered. Do you support this offer? There's a denial. Then let's do it this way. Let's define the procedure for reviewing the draft law on election of Ukrainian national deputies. There is a proposal by the committee to have the drafters present their case in five minutes. After the chairman of the committee took the floor and we discussed the matter in the usual way for us. And as for the decision, we'll be on Thursday. Is there no objection? The national deputy of Ukraine, Viksentiovich, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u75	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! All of us are well aware of the need to change the system of power. In order to bring about a change of power, it is necessary to restore the control of the people over the activities of the higher authorities of the State, including, above all, the Parliament as the highest representative body of the State. Does the valid Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies allow this to be done? I'm telling you, no. Although 47 members of the People's Party have spent the night in the President's Administration today, they have been brutally detained by the Special Units, the State Security Service, and only one of the heads of the President's Administration, Medvedchuk, could afford not to allow the people's deputies to meet with the President. Then, of course, they were frightened, but the fact remains. Convinced that if there was another election system to the Supreme Council, an official who had to file the President's papers would never have allowed himself to do so. Therefore, we need to understand clearly that the law in force does not justify itself today and that it needs to be changed, like it or not. We should not deceive ourselves. There are two different systems in principle -- proportional and major. The difference between them is that in the majority system, people vote for a person and there's a specific name in the ballot, and the proportional system provides for voting for a party list. And no matter how different our approaches are, we need to make it clear that that's the difference in the election system. The rest are procedures, technologies, this is an electoral organization. I proposed a bill that was clearly tested during the election campaign in Poland. There went a whole group of national MPs, we watched the previous elections to the Polish Seimas, and we were absolutely convinced that this project allowed for a very wide range of political forces, allowed for the formation of a political majority in Parliament, allowed for the control of the people, not by a specific person, but by political power, for a political party, which, depending on how it behaves in the Supreme Council, would be elected in the next election or not elected. [[Because it's impossible today, and you know it, there's no voter control for a specific national MP today.]] And if we really want to develop a democratic system, sooner or later we're going to come to this choice of electoral system. I'm convinced that the option I offered would be appropriate today. However, I understand that today, given the political situation in the state, we are not yet ready to accept it, and as the author of the bill, I have agreed that, together with other people's deputies, we should make a concerted decision to represent the People's Deputy of Klukkowski, this is Project 1017-7. Therefore, I propose to all the people's deputies who have favoured the bill that I have tabled, taking into account today's situation and especially considering that it is necessary to immediately define the rules of the game for which the Supreme Council will decide on the next call, to support the harmonized Bill 1017-7, which will be submitted by the People's Chamber of Klukkowski. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u76	Thank you, Joseph Vicentiovich. Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish is invited to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u77	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[Electoral District 177, Kharkiv Region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I just want to draw your attention to the fact that we are allowing ourselves dangerous derogations from the Rules when without a vote we decide to shorten the time envisaged for a speech based on the bill to five minutes. Of course, this format of time not only allows people to be brought to the national parliaments and, in fact, the essence of the bill, but also to compare it with other elements of the legal field that regulate one or the other. I agree with my colleague, Wynski, that the valid Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies does not correspond to the real political situation in the Ukrainian State and the political maturity of Ukrainian civil society, first of all, in its proportional composition, because it makes it impossible for Ukrainian citizens to have free access to power through the direct election of national deputies and makes it impossible to be accountable to the electorate of a particular national MP, as well as to political parties and blocs who take responsibility for the policy of the Supreme Council, both in the area of lawmaking and in the field of real political development of the Ukrainian State. It is clear that at this time we have a situation where it is the representatives of political parties and blocs that have gone to Parliament on the electoral model of proportional representation through closed party lists that insist on considering this model. However, European traditions show us that this model is not needed in Europe today, and only four nations use a similar model. [[Israel, Portugal, the Netherlands and Spain]] But it must be said that in Israel and Portugal there are double parliaments, and in other countries these systems have such restraints and contradictions that they do not allow the use of party dictatorships over the position of civil society. My bill, which has been proposed to you, is making the most of the modern European electoral laws to Ukraine's modern development, with two main objectives. The first goal is to bring Ukraine to essentially parliamentary parties when there are parliamentary parties and so-called social political parties that will have different opportunities in terms of their own free choice of instruments for the implementation of their policies, but will respect the principles of the construction of the Ukrainian State, using either parliament or political opposition in society. The second goal is to get as close as possible to the interests of the parties as possible, their programs to do the will of the Ukrainian electorate. Note what is happening at this time. Having chosen a proportional membership of the National Deputies to the Supreme Council, none of the parties implements their political agenda because of the professional expertise of the Supreme Council committees. The committees that we create work on a professional inter-ideological basis when the program of their activities is built on different factors, but none of the political programs are taken into account. My proposal is to create conditions for the emergence of political parties and blocs, which will, in an expert way, bring to Parliament politicians who will be able to implement the political programmes declared by voters during the electoral campaign. And the voters will be able to conduct monitoring every four years and actually rate the next election for this particular program. Because none of the political parties that went to the 2002 elections spoke of her fulfilling her program but merely declaring her intentions for the future. Dear colleagues! The bill before you aims to build an electoral model, which consists of three main components. First. The parties and the blocs put out candidates in the national MPs in 450 constituencies, and this election list is registered with the Central Electoral Commission. The orderly number of the candidate in the national MPs is essentially, let's say, protocol, the main meaning is the constituency that is kept by the MP who wins in this constituency as imperative at the time of his duties. The other one. Voting takes place according to normal voting technology, the number of votes cast by party candidates is arithmetically summed up and the number of votes received by the party is determined. According to the bill, it is proposed to create a 5-percent transitional model, which is calculated from the number of voters who have come to the election and the number of votes that have been received by the party. Then, according to the law, there is a list of national deputies who won the election and who represent the party’s own list. [[This is stage three.]] If the party's quota is less than the number of votes received, the list ends with the deputy who won the most votes in his constituency. According to the bill, self-regulatory representatives of non-party members of civil society, leaders of public organizations, who have collected 10,000 signatures in the constituency, are allowed. This is the realization of the constitutional right of citizens, the Constitution stipulates that every citizen can freely go to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to other representative authorities. It is also proposed that the minimum wage of 20,000 minimum wages be introduced for the instalments, with the wage being returned to those parties that will receive 2.5 percent of the votes of their electorate. From my point of view, from the point of view of the experts who have studied this bill, its introduction will allow to increase the level of responsibility of political parties, at the same time translate the Ukrainian electoral system into a proportionate European level, which will increase the trend towards Ukraine's development as a country of pluralist democracy, where each member of the Ukrainian civil society will have the right to decide on who he would like to elect to Parliament: a specific national MP with a specific position delegated by the party's programme, and at the same time a specific personality that will effectively and specifically protect his interests in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u78	Thank you. Please sit down, Stephen Bogdanovich. I'm out of procedure. National Deputy Cherniak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I don't understand why we don't make our own decision. Two weeks ago, we decided that today's meeting would have the only harmonized bill on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. The head of the committee of profile, Mr. Matvienko, promised that this would be done. I understand that one of the authors may have disagreed, but I hear an MP from Vienna speaking, and he claims that he is willing to create the only compatible project. And we're discussing all the bills again today. Why is a harmonized bill not prepared?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Matthew. And I'll also explain my position on the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u81	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. You came to me, and I'm giving you the answer. We actually did this work, we invited all the authors, most of the authors agreed to work on the agreed project. And it's implemented, this is Project 1017-7. Rudzikowski's project, Ponomarenka's project, the Klukkowski project, which was introduced earlier, was withdrawn and replaced by Project 1017-7, will be reported according to the graph. This project is supported by Vinsky, who said it and withdrew his project, and Turkinov, who is also taking his project off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are at the stage of this bill's consideration, let's listen and be determined. I just want to say about procedure. I think you can fully agree here with my colleague Klukkowski that we should have determined the procedure for dealing with this issue. But I'm also going to be very open about my position, and I think there's a desire here to solve this big problem by leaping in. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government did not even propose a regulation on the matter. And since the rules are not proposed, we have a normal procedure of just 45 minutes. In 45 minutes, six drafts cannot be considered. In five minutes you can only make a brief presentation, never discuss it. Then I think that today is essentially about introducing bills, and we don't have another one. We need to prepare this question more seriously, then we'll have a strong result. I invite National Deputy Dashutin Grigory Petrovich to report Ioffe Yuliy Yakovich as co-author of this bill. Please. Please follow the time limit we agreed on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u83	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[electoral district 112, Lugansk Region]] Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to point out that it has become a bad tradition that every new Supreme Council is trying to adopt its electoral law. But at the beginning of his activities. It's already been done. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I agree with you that in the hall we tried to vote on the concept of the law on elections on a proportional basis, and it wasn't supported, and now the presentation is coming, and every author has the right to report. In order not to waste time, I'm going to give you the basics of how Gregory Dashutin's bill differs from other electoral bills on a proportional basis. Each constituency or party is invited to present its candidates in 450 constituencies. The number of votes that the party will receive will consist of the votes that its candidates have won, regardless of the place they took on the list. The bill proposes that the list be formed from below. So it's going to depend on how many votes he won as a percentage of the number of voters who came to the polling station and voted no matter what place he took in the district. What's the deal here? This is where my old friend Silent laughs, but it doesn't give you the ability to trade places on the list, because we all know what happens here. [[B in m in s a l in]] I went to Majority, so don't worry. The other one. This forces party leaders to go and prove that they are not formal leaders. And the third. The people themselves form a list of each party. The point is that a party that has overcome the 4 percent barrier is entitled to some number of mandates, and that's how the list is formed. I don't see anything here that infuriates individual MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u84	No, it's not a Ukrainian bicycle, it's a system that exists in Estonia and partly in England. Mr. Havrish, who reported here, suggested a similar system, and I think we could just agree on all the differences in Mr. Havrish's bills and ours. We could get along here. But it's not a Ukrainian bicycle, it's an entirely European norm, so you know, I'll give you these laws, Mr. Mobchan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u85	Thank you. People’s MP Valerius Mikhailovich Asadchev is invited to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u86	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to agree that on such a serious issue we should not spend so little time and turn the consideration into a formality. I am convinced that there should be parliamentary hearings on this issue. I find it particularly difficult to report because my bill is technological, I've given more attention to the technology of the election itself, the commission's authority, the functions of each member of the business committee and so forth. So it's hard for me to explain all these points in five minutes, but I'm still going to try. It is known that the Constitution states that elections are held within 60 days. I ask myself: If in 60 days a full parliament can be elected with all its functions and powers, why should it be 180 days, 120 days, and so on, to spend in vain? [[by the Constitution]] My bill is unified in this regard, it provides for 60 days of holding both the next and the next elections. You know, a lot of attention has been paid because a citizen can't take part in the election, he has to go to the party to get it on the list. I've taken this problem into account, too. According to my project, every citizen of Ukraine, if he does not want to go through a party list, through a party convention, can create his own electoral list, register it with the Ministry of Justice and fly on equal terms with others. The bill pays much attention to the registration system. It is possible to register a block for an election within one hour. According to other drafts, you'll see that it takes 25 days to register, and I can register in one hour and go to the polls. The electoral campaign is 50 days, as the last election has shown, is quite enough to carry out the advocacy work properly. And now I want to stop at the top -- on the political basis of elections. You know, we talk a lot about harmonization, adaptation and even implementation of our legislation into Europe. But when it comes to real bills, where it's happening! So I took along a book about the parliaments of all the countries of the European Union. No country. I'm not even going to list all of them, just Luxembourg -- and there's regional lists, four multi-mandatory constituencies: 23 mandates - south, 21 - center, 9 - north and 7 - east. [[400,000 people like our Trinity]] Today we want to make one list for all of Ukraine. [[proposed in this agreed project]] It's already, you know, that kind of egotism of political leaders started, they want democracy from everyone -- from the President, from the Supreme Council, but not from themselves. So I suggest that there be regional lists to balance the interests of the regions in this room. You know that there is no Upper House in the Ukrainian Parliament, like in other great countries, where the interests of the regions are represented and protected. We have only one chamber, so we have to balance political interest through representation of political parties and coalitions and regional interest. If there's only one list, I can assure you, I've already told you from this rostrum, at the same time that I am the Chinese and the patriot of Kiev, but there will be 350 kyans sitting in this room. You'll see that half the regions in this room just won't be there, and that compromises the entire system of proportional choices. So I proposed regional lists: 27 regions - 27 regional lists. The system is very simple. There's an election that's gained 5 percent of the total -- it's going to Parliament. The total number of seats the party or the block has picked up, and then these seats are occupied by those candidates on the regional lists who won more votes in the elections. I think this is the mechanism that will balance our Parliament when we go completely into a proportional system. And once again, I would like to emphasize that the bill on election technology is mostly about, and that's why this committee is agreeable, which is what I've also been involved in, has actually rejected all of this technology, has suggested that there be a signature assembly again, and then, in fact, they themselves have refused to do so. I'm still asking, especially the regionals, to support the system of regional lists. That's what European experience is -- a normal proportional system with regional lists. It is a European experience and a European path, as it were, to build parliamentaryism in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u87	Thank you. National MP Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u88	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Alok Victor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine"]] Dear colleagues! I have the honour to report on a bill which, according to the mandate of the Supreme Council and the decision of the Committee, has been drawn up by several drafters who have duly withdrawn their bills and by other national MPs who wish to participate. I'm sorry that some authors see only the electoral system in electoral legislation. I assure you, the election law is much more than just an electoral system. But it's so complicated that there's actually a presentation going on today, and it's mostly about the electoral system. Our bill is based on the electoral system that was applied in proportion to the selection of half of the Supreme Council’s composition in 1998 and 2002. So the only state-owned district and the only party or block list. The number of seats in the list corresponds to the number of mandates played in this area. Why are we on this very system? Why do I not share, for example, the views of my colleague Assadchev on regional districts or on the so - called quasi-majority system proposed in the laws of Gavrish and Joseph Dashutin? I'm not going to talk about the political role of parties now, which is enshrined in the Ukrainian Constitution, and I'm not going to argue right now that society can be either civil, structured, politically based political parties, or atomic, mass, scattered, where everyone is left alone and there are no public, social views -- each for himself. [[Article 36, part two]] I just want to pay attention to this. I would recommend that the authors of these bills, who are proposing to withdraw from the national list, take the results of the elections in 2002 and try to calculate the distribution of mandates according to their proposed system. I assure you, these calculations, first of all, are very complex, and second of all, they don't always allow the exact results of the elections. [[And I made them.]] For example, lists are regional, but they are a barrier within the state. The party does not overcome the barriers within the state, but in one district it receives many votes. Does it participate in the distribution of mandates or not? He doesn't, but then there's a lot of undisclosed places in this district. Bills don't say anything about that. They do not introduce, as is done in many countries where regional lists are used, the so - called State Compensation List. First of all, however, I would like to draw your attention to the possibility that in applying the system proposed in the laws of Gavrish and Joof - Dashutin, there may be situations where the people will be questioned about the outcome of the elections. I'm not kidding. According to these bills, the winner in the district may not get a mandate, but he may get a mandate as a third or fourth candidate. Please tell me, how will this be accepted by the people? What imperative mandate will we talk about if the one in the district who won the most votes does not become a deputy? The proposed system provides for this because the candidate may represent a party that has not overcome the barrier. That's why all these experiments can end very badly. We will ultimately undermine any confidence in such a democratic institution to form a representative body as elections. And now I want to draw attention to the second part of the bill, the so-called election technology. And if we think it's a noxious thing, I'm returning you to the Ioffe and Dashutin Bill, which have completely rewrote the procedural, technological part of the 1997 law, rejecting what the Supreme Council has adopted, rejecting what has been recognized in the world as a major step forward of Ukrainian electoral law -- improving procedure, election technology, voter counting, agitation, voter lists, and so on. These are the problems that always raise a lot of questions during the electoral process itself. That is why we no longer understand such a return. Our bill is based on a valid Law on the Election of Ukrainian People’s Deputies and takes into account the experience we gained during the 2002 electoral process. There is a proposal for improvement in the issue of voter lists, a clarification of the regulation of electoral agitation, a more detailed description of the rights and possibilities of acquittals of decisions, actions or omissions of the various subjects of the electoral process. [[And you know what the problem is when you've lost power to determine your place of residence is what you call a pen.]] [[You know how many disputes have arisen around this.]] So it's about improving the election process, improving its regulation, not going back to what's long gone, to what's already rejected life itself. That's why we're asking for a session room. The bill I am presenting is the basis for further work. It has discussion points, they need to be discussed, and appropriate changes should be made in preparation for the second reading. However, I would very much like to avoid experimenting with the electoral system. Believe me, there's nothing in England that a respected colleague of Jooffe spoke of, there's a pure majority system, you don't have to fantasize. This is in Estonia, the only one for all of Europe, which is not the law of the European model. Let's still be Europeans, let's think about developing representative authorities and developing institutions of democracy in Ukraine, not burying them under nice words. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u89	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on State Building and Local Governmental Affairs, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! First of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to address you. First of all, it's not a presentation, it's a debate, and that's how the committee looks at today's hearing. Secondly, at your request, take this project down and put another one in place, and I advised you to consult with the Hall about the procedure. And you offered the hall five minutes. So you don't have to blame the committee, because at least that's not entirely correct. I don't think the committee deserves that kind of evaluation on your part. Now it's about the substance of the bill. Dear colleagues! First of all, on your behalf, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank all the drafters of the bill and show respect for their bills. Every bill, of course, has rational proposals, rational grains that would be useful in redrafting when we adopt one of them in the first reading to develop a really perfect law. I fully support Klukkowski's speech on behalf of the committee, which the main emphasis has been not on which election system the Supreme Council will adopt, but on what the procedure for organising the elections will be, because you know what the procedure is, and there was a possibility of falsifying the results. So in any system we have to write a fairly clear and fairly detailed procedure. I thank those authors who agreed and brought their projects together. I inform you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and those who asked questions, that instead of the five projects that were submitted for registration, we are today presenting a harmonized bill of 1017-7. Such reconciliation took place. We invited all the authors, and I'm grateful that both Mr. Havrish and Mr. Assadchev came, but they didn't agree to go along with the only project. It's their right, and it's their right no one can take. All the bills that have been tabled can be divided into three blocks. The first block is the Ioffe and Gavrish projects, where there's practically 450 districts in each district, they're coming out of the lists, but Gavrish still has money that goes up and out of the party. If the unpartisan wins in the district, he becomes a national deputy. And if a party wins, he can't be a national deputy yet, until the entire vote is four percent. Obviously, this is no longer entirely normal. There's a rule in these two bills that the parties put out one candidate in 450 districts. And that means that if someone for objective reasons has dropped out of this list, then the county for this political party can't vote, which is once again a violation of citizens' rights, and registering another party has no right. So this is a bill that allows us to also use administrative resources. And you understand why we must obviously beware of this administrative resource. There's another block of legislation that offers regional lists. I'm not going to stop, I'm just going to say that we have different regions. We obviously have to adopt the Electoral Code, which gives us the right to create at least the same regions. Tell me, how are thirty parties going to fight in Sevastopol, and how do we divide these places by this regional principle, if there's a party, say, "Russian voters" or something, that gets 40 percent of the votes, and it doesn't take 4 percent across Ukraine? There is a problem with the difficulty of counting votes. Obviously, administrative reform is a major prelude to this principle. We fully agree that both the Winsky Bill and the Assadchev Bill, which provide for the regional lists, are a sure prospect for Ukraine. But we need to take a clear road ahead of this. In the next election, we're just not ready for this. And finally, another bill proposed at number 1017-7, which, I repeat, recommends that we consider and adopt in the first reading our legal service and on which the committee stopped. We believe that this bill should be adopted on the basis and proposals of Assadchev, including which we have greatly supported at the committee meeting, can be taken into account in the drafting of this bill. I propose to the Supreme Council, on behalf of the committee, to adopt in the first reading a bill numbering 1017-7, agreed with many authors of previous bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's ask questions. Let's take 10 minutes to ask. I'm asking you to sign up. Let us ask you a question, please. Please point it on the board. Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u92	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. I have two questions. Do you feel that the election to local councils and the election of national deputies should be held on the same day or that they should be divorced in time? That's the first one. The other one. Anyone who uses voter support will collect signatures that have money and will be able to make a mortgage and then buy the voter first. What do you think is needed here, whether it's signatures or cash collateral?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u93	Thank you. As to the first question: Is it worth the election to the local council and the election to the Supreme Council to divorce in time? The committee did not make a decision on this point, but the discussion at the committee meeting on this issue showed that the committee was more inclined to do what was worth divorcing. Even though the administrative resources will then be more involved in the elections to the Supreme Council, we believe that we cannot turn elections into races, people should be aware of what kind of authority they form. But that's a separate subject. When we consider the issue of elections to the local representative authorities, then the question will be officially introduced by the profile committee, but there will be a hall. As to the second question. We also discussed, and the committee voted that it supports the mortgage requirement because it understands that this is not a violation of the rights of the electorate and the rights of citizens. [[and the Constitutional Court confirms]] We think that if we introduce "or-or" then the political forces that are the subjects and the constituencies will not be in equal conditions, because those who collect signatures will have much more opportunities to conduct propaganda indirectly, and those who do not collect signatures, and those who make mortgages will not be able to do so. After all, we realize that today this has turned into a big business. In any case, we have the facts when the vote is paid. We recommend that the bill, which is proposed for adoption in the first reading, should only stop at the question of the mortgage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u94	National Deputy Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u95	Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u96	Alexander Frost. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u97	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich! I've proposed some substantial additions to the Rudzkowski project, but now I know that the whole Kludkowski project is being supported. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u98	No, it's a coordinated project signed by Klukkowski, Rudzkowski, Plush and Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u99	One of the ways in which the improvements I propose apply to the process of forming election committees at all levels. Today it is administered to infinity. The Central Election Commission has unwarranted rights. We need to make a second reading of the proposal to strengthen the role of the electorate in order to focus the Central Election Commission on the procedure rather than on the resolution of human resources issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u100	Alexander Alexanderovich, I want to say that this chapter in the bill, which the committee proposes to accept in the first reading, is sufficiently detailed, all the proposals Rudzikowski made, including your suggestions, are included. We really support the fact that the entities forming the district election committees are factions that have gone to the Supreme Council. What's more, in the bill we've prescribed a rule that excludes any manipulation, any administrative intervention. But, of course, we would be happy if you made some suggestions, because there is no limit to perfection, and the possibility of improvement is. I think the committee will consider these proposals and make specific decisions on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u101	National deputy of Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u102	55th Precinct, the city of Mariupol. Dear Anatoly Sergeyevich! It was already a sign of a bad tone when a new parliament came and started drafting a new electoral law. A paradoxical situation: the room says that a proportional system is needed, only it will get the country out of the crisis, and when you start talking to voters, they open their eyes and say, "Who thought we should vote for a cat in a bag," because for today, this form of voting leads to the fact that we don't know our own electorate? Let us be honest and frank, and let us tell the people the truth that today we need a new electoral law to review the current election results in order to reintroduce the people into a new electoral race with any law but a proportional system. I'm asking you a specific question: who will do the routine of the Supreme Council, which is today, with pensions, taxes, changes in the legislative framework for producers? That's the first one. Second. Who deprives me of my rights and who obliges me to submit to a party if I don't believe any of them? Today, let's say 100 parties are unstructured. What am I supposed to do with the ideology of a party if there's interest in the region? Who will be involved in the specific electorate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u103	Thank you. I think that is certainly the opinion of many majors, perhaps even most. I've also been a two-time senior, and I know what this is, so I want to testify to you. First. We must follow the logic of equality of all deputies. You will probably agree today that the MPs sitting in the hall are unfortunately not equal and equally responsible, so the law that we have to adopt has to be unified, the MPs have to be equal. Today, senior officials are obviously more exerted for various reasons, including the imperfections of the Law on Political Parties, the Electoral Law, and the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. It's not just the election law that regulates the issues you're talking about. Therefore, the hall needs to be determined and decided. But obviously, it should be based on the fact that MPs are supposed to be equally loaded, equally responsible -- whether you make decisions about the majority system and you're going to think that it's the right thing to do, or whether you're going to take what the committee advises you, what science advises, and what world practice advises today. The other one. The subjects of the elections are parties, and this is evidenced by European practice. And no matter what we refuse them, the other world today has not come up with, because then there's no responsibility, there's no structurality, and you see what's happening as a result of the majority. You're a great MP, and you're loved, but there's nothing you can do, because you're alone. There was nothing I could do and a lot of people sitting here. You're being driven into political factions by force, and you can't give up, because eventually you can do anything there. So we don't have to hide. It seems to me that we have to do this consciously, and the political parties have to keep their regional responsibility as the pupil of the eye, because we have to gain authority as political parties in each region. And that's already the party's right in the Party Act to prescribe this regional emphasis. After all, the party program has to be executed, and the party has to be responsible. That's why I think there are problems here. But it is obviously necessary to resolve them, not in a way that sidetracks the denial of a proportional system, but in order to work out a system in which a party is accountable to the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u104	National Deputy Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u105	Thank you. I'm going to use this moment, not for the question, but for the replica. First, the science and practice of the world do not recommend a single list throughout the country, especially one as large as Ukraine. I've already given you an example of the countries of the European Union and of all the countries of Europe in general, so you're here a little bit, you know. Secondly, I think it's inappropriate for you to comment on my bill, especially what's not there. I'll tell you that according to my bill, Sevastopol will have at least three deputies in parliament, and according to you, he will have none. There will be no MPs in the Montenegrin Parliament, the Ternopil region and other areas. I think it was the right question for deputy Matvienkov to ask. In fact, you deprived him of his right to have his own list and to fly, and I did not. In accordance with my bill, he has the right to go to the election with the parties. So I would very much like you to take a close look at this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u106	Thank you. I will do it again, although I have read your entire bill very carefully, and the committee, after considering it, has admitted that very much of the money proposed in your bill can be counted. By the way, they're already included in the agreed project if you get to know him. Regarding the unparty candidates proposed in your bill, the committee denied it, you were in a meeting, and you know the argument. You propose to create a non-party party and register it according to the party registration standards for the year before the election. It seems to us that we should not hide from ourselves, but simply register the party that our bill envisions. And that's how you realize your right, because every person's right to be a party initiator or to join a party. Finally, the availability of party lists does not exclude non-party candidates, it is also constitutional law and the Constitutional Court has fully agreed that this is not a violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u107	Thank you. Question time's up. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. We're already working on this for 45 minutes, let's take another 15 minutes to get to the show if there's no objection. The performance is recorded by Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of "Our Ukraine". Get ready for the Machineman.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u108	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[electoral district 219, Kiev]] "Our Ukraine." Dear friends! Today, when we're listening to arguments in favour of the majority system that actually exists in Ukraine today, I would just like to propose: let's look at Europe, at the success of those countries that have a long-standing proportional system, and appreciate our own success. And this is going to be an assessment, definitely, for the benefit of Europe. Obviously, the political system, the electoral system that the whole world is using today, is more harmonious and accountable to the electorate, so there is greater success. We have nothing to look forward to. I'd like to say about the time-limits for the adoption of laws. Some say that we start our work by adopting laws. I'd like us not to finish this so that we don't conduct from the offices in the bank, which is the law that we're going to adopt during the election campaign. Because this time the main positions were there, and we were sitting in the hall, and we didn't know that the electoral process had already begun, and someone knew the final rules of the game, and we're fighting over the law here: we're accepting -- it falls under the veto. So it takes two or three years for Ukraine to be familiar with everyone who understands the electoral law, and for parties, and if it's any other system, for Ukrainian citizens to be prepared for this choice, not to hold the law like a 'cat in a bag', as some say here. The law, like a cat in a bag, is held and then thrown out for election, and we go and we don't know who to choose and what rules. So I clearly insist that the law be considered now. It's what the president seems to want. So let's do a little test, or do the President really want it, because he's running the majority in this room today, giving instructions. If you are instructed to adopt a law on a proportionate basis, do so. Or someone is not sincere: is he who gives instructions, or is he who, by lowering his eyes down here, in this room, speaks of what he would like to be known by the electorate. I've chosen three times in the majority district of Kiev, but I can tell you that this system has come to life, it's unacceptable to Ukraine today. Many majors, including those in this room, have come here solely on the money of those clans who now run the country, they're irresponsible, they're not posted. Today you're being led by the factions that now define politics in Ukraine, and I've been coming from our Ukraine, even though I've been going to major district. That's how the socialists went, that's how the communists went. And those who are standing under the walls of the Presidential Administration or Parliament today insist that there should be changes in Ukraine that will lead to responsible authority. We have an irresponsible Parliament. Which one of you is going to ask who's giving who the team is? I can say that I have a party that I'm from, and I'd like this party to be re-elected, so I'm going to work for the people and I'm going to work for that right. And whoever came, excuse me, from some clan, he's always hidden, but he's got a last name, he's kind of good for someone. I wanted to express these two positions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u109	The Orobec People's Deputy, faction of our Ukraine. To prepare for the National Deputy of Bespalam, faction of our Ukraine. There's no workpiece. Please, Boris Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u110	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[electoral district 223, Kiev]] "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I want to talk to you about something. When we adopt any law, it must have some purpose. And what the hell do election laws require? It would seem possible to appoint deputies. In the past, Spanish dictator Franco appointed cortes, a king - of - law spirit. But under what condition will the authorities work for the people? If a person knows that to become a deputy, he needs to serve the President, he will serve the President. If a person knows that a mandate can be bought, he will spend four years collecting money to buy it. If a person knows that his mandate depends on local authority, he will serve the local authorities. And only if everyone knows that elections are held honestly will the chosen people work for the electorate for four years. In this case alone, it is up to the electorate. It turns out that the main task of electoral legislation is to promote fair, independent elections. [[And it's become clear, I think, to all the people in Ukraine.]] Honest choices are supposed to be the alpha and the limit to what we want. And then the question is, how do we provide them? And for good reason, we have disputes about the electoral system. It is no longer understood that in Ukraine today, with the realities we have, elections can be either a proportional electoral system or no one. Take a look at how local councils are chosen, which have really turned into councils for the leaders of the respective regions, that is, the abuse of power in the majority system. The smaller the district, the greater the influence of power. And from this point of view, which is crucial for Ukraine, and we're making the law for Ukraine, the proportional system and the nationwide list is the most optimal option. Finding the ideal is good, we should want it, but it's the crane in the sky that we can miss out on. So I think we don't have another way out of promoting fair elections right now, how to stop at the agreed version of Bill 1017-7 that is actually supported by a whole bunch of factions. My colleague Klukkowski said very correctly that elections are not just a system, it's a very thorough procedure that has to be controlled. I particularly agree with Alexander Moroz's thesis on the formation of election committees, because whatever external observation there is, there should be internal balance and control. [[And the outside observers remind the audience of something in the circus when the magician does the focus on the stage, and they just watch it.]] But this is about redesigning the project for second reading. And the sooner we figure out and tomorrow we'll take the project as a basis, the more time we have to really polish and adopt a quality bill. On behalf of our committee, I look forward to supporting the position of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u111	National Deputy Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u112	55th Precinct, the city of Mariupol. Dear colleagues! The fact that the Electoral Law requires further study and careful study, I think no one is arguing, is all agreed upon. I may say it again, but I want that phrase spoken again. It was a sign of a bad tone that when a new parliament came, the law was being revised, it was being revised, under a particular political situation. The situation has changed, let's re-adopt the bill and change the system. Paradoxically, in fact, more and more often in the room are the words that only a proportional system is scientifically sound, and so on. You start talking to voters, they don't understand this approach, they don't understand this method. What's a cat in a bag, what's a list? Five normal people, one crazy. Why am I supposed to vote for an abnormal candidate because he's got five less normal people standing in front of him? This is an abnormal approach to dealing with this issue. That's the first one. Second. Why are we here today to address this problem? What, today the moment has come and the committee has matured to draft an election bill to be adopted in the hall and to start working? Anatoly Sergeyevich, I asked you a question honestly and frankly. Let's be honest with the people. Do we want to drag the country into a new election? Then let's tell these grandparents that we promised to do the pension system, the tax system, to raise the salaries of teachers, doctors, that we're still putting these issues aside. And we'll do politics, we'll review the results of the elections. As long as we do not bring to Parliament the number of people we would like. And who will take care of these people — pensioners, persons with disabilities? Who will solve their problems? With regard to Bill 1017-7, I will tell you that if this bill elects the Supreme Council, it will be the Supreme Council of Kiev, I am responsible for my words, because all the leaders, all the leaders, will sit in Parliament. They will know what is happening on the ground, and they will know what they will hear from the electorate, who will seek it, and will come to Kiev. So there's a healthy point to what Assadchev said about what Gavrish said about the bill. But I would like to say that there is no need to introduce this bill today and to consider this issue in the Hall at all. I believe that all proposals should be rejected, the Committee should be mandated to draft a normal bill taking into account sound statements and not to bring the situation into line with politics, but specifically to engage in legislative activities, taxes and other matters. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u113	Thank you. Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! I don't think I'm gonna be suspected by majors. I've been in the Majority District three times, and this year I'd be chosen, too, I'm sure if I didn't have to pick for a party list. But that's not what this is about. You know, voters already understand. The election, when a part of the deputies were elected for a proportional list, showed that people understood everything, didn't need to convince them, they knew where the whale was in the bag, and where the money was in the bag. So I understand that there are a few deputies like you, that's an exception. You could go to the Majority District, based on the possibilities of the Mariupol factory and the working people, you would vote for it. [[And you were working for the interests of that group.]] But most of us today wouldn't be in a major district if the President's office didn't have a bird against their names. So let's not close our eyes to the fact that the majority system in Ukraine today is an administrative resource in a pure way. And for the record, the president says, let's move on to a proportional system. It could be different in terms of content, I didn't want to complicate the situation, because you could say that Communists have their representatives in each region, there's no problem here. A different scheme could be proposed, for example a general list, but there is no voting for a candidate in the constituency, there is a vote for the parties. Only the man who won the most votes for the party in this district will pass, not only for himself, but for the party. It's important and it would correct a lot of nuances in technology itself. Don't you get it? I'll explain later separately. And that's why I withdrew my proposals, perhaps to the second reading, because it's a very principled transition to tying the interest of a particular person to the district, to the political system that he stands for. There are options, but that's not even the point. We need to have something concrete. Specific is what the committee is proposing today. And the version of Klukkowski, which agrees with many of the bills, can be quite acceptable. And let there be no fear that this will be realized in order to make early parliamentary elections. That's bullshit. A few arguments. Once this law is passed, you will see how the consolidation and structures of parliament and of society will begin and other laws that are needed today by the President will be voted on. But I would like to invite the committee and the initiators to consider this option: we can write in the Final Positions that this law has entered into force, let's say, since 2006, that is to say, the next election, so that no one is afraid that it's going to be prepared for a particular election. We need to be on a normal legislative basis so that the administrative resources are not used as a tool for the formation of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u115	National deputy Yultak, faction of our Ukraine, and we will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u116	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 95, Kyiv region]] Dear friends! Back to the discussion: a proportional system or a major system, I would like to highlight my own example. I also went to the Supreme Council three times as a major, and the power of the administrative and command system three times failed in the Kyevo-Svatoszynski and Irpine constituency. So I can make it clear that if there were a well-structured civil society in Ukraine, there would be no need for such a discussion. So you could normally ensure elections in major districts and proportionally. But in the conditions that were created today -- under the conditions of Leonid Kuchma's criminal oligarchy regime -- there is no other way of creating a civil society, such as the transition to a proportional electoral system, in our country, unfortunately, there is no. So if you say proportional or major, I'm a proponent, of course, in this situation, and this is reflected in that draft law that I passed, that I voted for the regional lists and that voter vote for these regional lists, taking into account the preferences of the electorate. [[Although, I repeat, I'd love to fight any oligarch in Kiev and the Irpine constituency again.]] So the first person on the list is not automatically the first member of the election. But I'd like to make a point about that right now. I have a draft of the Electoral Code, because the Supreme Council in the next election, under the next referendum, is constantly covering electoral legislation, and our electoral legislation is contradictory, electoral laws are very imperfect. And today we need not to get hot, because I'm convinced that the bone that Kuchma threw at the Supreme Council in the form of proposals for proportional elections is just a means of eliminating the political tension that exists in society today. No law on the proportional system of Kuchma's election will ever sign if he's not forced to. So we don't have to be hot, we have to work quietly. We need to adopt the perfect Electoral Code and force Kushma to resign or sign that perfect bill, which we will develop peacefully without burning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, we'll finish. The closing word is given to Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! On behalf of the committee, I thank you all for speaking out on this bill. The committee, working on this bill, will take all your comments into account. Whether it is accepted or not, we still need to adopt such a law. As to the questions that were raised in this rostrum. First of all, I would like to address Mr. Matvienkov as to the urgency of this bill. I want to remind you that, first of all, this is the right of deputies and that no one can take this right. Second, it's a requirement of many factions. Thirdly, the President himself said that such a law should be enacted. And I think we all agree here: who's for the President, and who's not for him, let's say, both of us. There's another nuance. I want to tell it to the Mayors. Perhaps you don't know this, but it has become known that some factions have already made a proposal today to block the work of the Supreme Council in order to achieve the dissolution of the Supreme Council and the corresponding election of the new Supreme Council. [[If that's not true, I apologize.]] That is why it also requires us to adopt this law. And finally, there's another piece of information. I counted on the committee how many majors came to the Supreme Council from a previous call that didn't change the district. I want to tell you that only 12 percent of those went through. The party lists included 15 percent of seniors. Therefore, those who want to save themselves in such a situation that is developing in Ukraine, their place in parliament tomorrow, have to understand that the chances of going to parliament are very limited. This is information that touches your performances. I thank you again and ask you to put this matter to the vote tomorrow and decide. This will give us the opportunity to work seriously and prepare a bill, without rushing, for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The time taken to discuss this matter has already been taken. Dear colleagues! I gave my word according to the record. Let's get this over with. I'll say just a few words with your permission. Once again, I feel that the committee should prepare this material more thoroughly. There was even no proposal for a regulation on the subject, as all committees do. Dear colleagues! We should probably consider this bill comprehensively, including looking at the Political Parties Act, especially in part of its Final Provisions. We're in a bit of a hurry. There was an offer to stop at the concept of this bill first, to agree to it in the hall, and then to work out an agreed bill that will be supported by most of the people's deputies, or else we'll all have a couple in a buzz as often as we can. [[Obviously, it's also relevant.]] I think we should take note of the proposal made by the people's representative, Assadchev, to hold parliamentary hearings, taking into account the seriousness of this document. Because we have two approaches: one leader and everything else, or every person who walks, should be known to the general public, that is, a transparent list. It's about talking about administrative resources in elections. I would like us to stop this conversation when we consider the elections to be in 2006. And if that's the case, then there'll be a democratic regime, and in the next election, we can form it. [[Applause]] So let's not be afraid of each other, especially since the administrative resource is mostly referred to by those who have considerable experience in using this administrative resource. Let us turn to the next question. You are being reviewed by the draft Income Tax Act. Dear colleagues! We had before us a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of National Deputies. The author of this project, National Deputy Sass, suggests that it be removed because it makes no sense because there are other documents that have been worked out. People’s deputies, Teryohin, are invited to report. The committee proposes the following rules: for the report -- ten minutes, for the answer to a question to a reporter -- ten minutes, for discussion and decision-making -- ten minutes, including for a co-report from the Cabinet of Ministers -- also up to ten minutes. Is there no objection? Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u120	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[constituency 216, Kiev]] Thank you very much. I'll save time on my report so there's more time for questions. Dear National Deputies! I remind you that according to a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Finance and Banking was obliged to agree between the entities of the right of legislative initiative to prepare a draft Law on Taxation of the Income of Persons for Re-reading. For three months, two round tables were held, four working meetings with representatives of the taxpayers, including from various regions of Ukraine, on tax scales, rates and the size of the untaxed minimum, as well as with experts from the State Tax Administration on the simplification and improvement of the efficiency of administration of the tax. Most of the suggestions made by participants in such discussions are taken into account. Some of the issues we have are asked for a second reading. The concept of the draft Ukrainian Income Tax Act, which is proposed, reflects more consistently the approach that includes all types of income received from all sources during the tax period, both within and outside Ukraine. The project does not contain an exhaustive list of incomes and at the same time limits the number of types of income that are not included in total income. This approach makes it possible to significantly expand the tax base. The bill proposes a rate of 10, 15, 20 and 13 percent, while reducing the tax amount charged during the reporting month to tax benefits. The first level of bets has been set at 600 bracelets. Tax benefits are measured at 2 percent relative to the first level of the scale for all natural persons. In addition, social benefits amount to 1 percent for participants in combat, for each child, for single mothers, and so on. There are improvements in the administration of income tax from citizens, the extension of the tax base for the cancellation of benefits provided on professional grounds, and the inclusion of additional sources of income tax in the budget. [[asset taxation: securities, corporate rights, inheritance and passive income: interest, dividends, royalty]] There's a new, more general definition of property that will allow you to tax income from the alienation of material objects, securities, corporate rights, and from the transfer of ownership rights to intellectual property rights and any similar rights that are of value. I remind you that the main problems that needed reconciliation were the size of the untaxed minimum, the income scale and tax rates, the social benefits and the order in which property transactions were taxed. Clearly, honourable national MPs, in social ideologies, we have to go to an untaxed minimum of living at a minimum. You know that recently a new calculation of the subsistence minimum was submitted to the Supreme Council, which is now a little less than 400 dollars. However, from a fiscal point of view, we cannot establish an untaxed minimum of living tax from today’s point of view in view of the fact that this tax is the main source of the formation of local budgets. And in order to avoid a sharp reduction in local budget revenues during the time that we expect to legalize these incomes, it is proposed to set on second reading a dynamic scale to raise the untaxed minimum to the minimum of living, stretching it for several fiscal years. Regarding income scales and tax rates. What I've heard today has been calculated by taking into account the demographic characteristics of our population as well as the characteristics of our income. This scale corresponds to two problems. The first is to reduce the tax burden on low-income populations. And the second is to set up a debt regime that would force people with high incomes not to keep them in other countries, but to bring them to Ukraine. The option of setting up a transitional period, for example, up to three years of fixed tax rates, such as in the Russian Federation, was discussed for the full legalization of income from this source. And the last. There are some rather interesting questions related to property taxation and inheritance tax approaches. These questions require further agreement on second or third readings. And I think we're going to agree with the interested parties. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Finance and Banking proposes to adopt this bill on the first reading and then to create a working group, as I said, to further develop it with Minfin, as well as with interested parties, to remove the issue of rates, non-taxable minimums and property taxation. [[see the budgetary indicators]] Thank you for your attention and ready to listen to your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u121	Please sign up for the question. Ten minutes. Please record. Please point it on the board. Please, the Kings, the Regions of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u122	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[constituency 40, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] I would like to recall that we voted on this bill and the result of the vote was the establishment of a working group, which included the authors of other bills. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Burjak Committee, Sergey Terehin himself, because normal work has been done and very many of the issues that we asked to consider, asked to be included and finalized from the first reading have been included and refined. I will therefore say that the “Regions of Ukraine” will support this bill primarily because it is conceptually aimed at reducing the tax burden on people. However, there are outstanding issues that we would like to discuss in the second and third readings. There is such a view that it would be good for a transitional period to introduce any rules that would have limited time but would have a stronger mechanism to remove the enterprise from the shadows. Once again, I would like to emphasize Russia's positive experience in establishing a single income tax rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! I think you can all support a young, promising national MP, not scream. Let him speak. You say as much as you need. Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u124	I want to ask you a question. Is it possible, in the second, third reading, to introduce transitional provisions for a period of three to five years, to consider the introduction of a single rate or, for example, the question of real estate? We believe that the introduction of an income tax on real estate will cause unnecessary gibberish and will be negatively perceived by people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u126	Thank you for appreciating the work of our committee. Clearly, for such a difficult law as the Income Tax Act, it is not possible to set a single date for implementation. We have to distribute it in time and how to enter an untaxed minimum, and how to set a progressive scale or a progressive regression scale. [[again on budgetary grounds]] I absolutely do not reject the possibility of having sufficient calculations and budgetary evidence to actually set up some transitional period of one bet, at least to harmonize the rules of taxation of individuals in border areas where, you know, migration goes absolutely uncontrollably. So it's possible to do that. In real estate, it's also the right thing to do. Turning to the general theory of income taxation — not real estate — is not the case, but the income from the alienation of real estate takes time, first and second, to inform people, because this applies to virtually every family in Ukraine. So a transitional period will be introduced, and I invite you to cooperate on the introduction of this transition period.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u127	Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u128	55th District, Mariupol. Dear Sergey Anatolyevich! I support the idea as a whole, but I have two questions. [[You know, our views are a lot alike.]] First question. How do you see the passage of this bill in time, because you understand that there is a budget and an old tax base, and how do you concentrate on adopting this bill as soon as possible? And a specific question on the draft law. Paragraph 4.2.8. I have come to understand that there has been an attempt to lift taxes on incomes over the past period, identified by a personal or tax inspection, i.e. to combine this law with the law against the laundering of dirty money. Is that not how you evaluate this option? Because there is article 58 of the Constitution, which clearly states that the law of retroactive force cannot be exercised in the tax field.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u129	Thank you. Very good questions. I'll start answering the second question. Paragraph 4.2. 8 refers to such cases where, for example, a person submits a declaration and forgets in this declaration to determine something for himself, but then finds that income, and in order not to get a fine, he adds to that declaration. This is the first case. The second is when a declaration is made, but the tax service shows income from other sources, such as foreign ones. There are international tax avoidance agreements, and through the Ministry of Justice, it gets information that you've got income abroad. [[Well, not you, but someone.]] They should be taken into account by tax inspection in the future tax periods, not in the reporting periods, and there should be deductions. So this isn't about someone looking for what you had there five years ago, it's not said. And the first question about the lines. You know, I have a dream. We've been bringing this bill here since 1997. I remind you, in the House of Parliament of the past, a similar bill, which is worse, you know, where it's stuck? On the third reading again. As a result, the system was established in December 1992, as amended by the President’s decree of 1995. I don't think anybody's getting laid today when an untaxed minimum of 17 bracelets sounds like bullying, no social pressure at all. Or when after, I'm sorry, the equivalent of $200 starts to go 40 percent. Who will pay such taxes? In conclusion, we did a survey in early 2001 in central Ukraine, not only in Kiev, but also in Chernigów, Chercas and so on, from which the size of the pay starts in envelopes. [[I'm sorry for the long answer.]] That's 200 to 220 dollars a month. So our scale is specially calculated so that it's not embarrassing for the underprivileged, where we subtract these taxes, and then in the form of social subsidies, we try to pay them off, not all of them. Really? And the second is to legalize the incomes that relate to the middle class, because the middle class has to get the poor out, like in all normal countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u130	Please. National MP Burjak, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u131	Aolo's Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[electoral district 193, Hmelnicka district]] Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to a few points that relate to this bill. Our goal was to get the wages out of the shadows. To this end, we propose a progressive regression scale of 10, 15, 20, 13 percent. To this end, we propose a reduction in the burden on the payroll fund. That's a very important question. I'd like to draw your attention to a few questionable, principled questions. First. We're sure that the tax-free minimum should be equal to the subsistence minimum. It's logical and moral. Why is the tax-free minimum now 17 bucks? Why not 21 or 30? We've set this trend. This is the subject of discussion. The other one. I am personally sure that income cannot be taxed on deposits of natural persons. That's my personal opinion. We are talking about increased investment potential in our country, and we should remember that the main investor is our citizen! Third. We need to take a closer look at taxation of income from the sale of property, which is also the subject of discussion. But in general, the bill is valid, and it's worth supporting in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u132	Thank you. I could tell the only trailer. I remind you, honourable national deputies, that this is the beginning of the journey, this is the first step. So it can't be said that we're already taking the project as a whole and we're putting it into action. This is the subject of major discussions in the hall, including social and budgetary issues, and of the issues that Sergey Vasilovich Burjak has just raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u133	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u134	Thank you. And in closing, I'd like to say, if you don't mind, literally a few words. At the level of experts who were in our working group, we did practically everything. I mean experts from executive power. Unfortunately, we have not been able to gain the favor of a personal finance minister who thinks that, at the very least, we need to increase the high-income rate now, but leave the untaxed minimum at 24 dollars. Of course, such a step is not understood by humans. And I would ask, in spite of the position of executive power today, to vote on this bill in the first reading tomorrow and then to agree with the executive authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u135	Thank you. Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance Vasil Vasilovitch Regurecki. Do you have anything on this as a co-rapporteur to say?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u136	Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. I would like to take this opportunity within five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u137	Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u138	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to express the government's position on this project. We absolutely agree with the statements made in this rostrum that this is one of the most important bills to generate the revenue of the budget that cannot be set aside for the future. We need to look at it as quickly as possible. But there was a situation in which we did not agree on the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers during the discussion of this bill's agreeing group. Therefore, according to the Supreme Council Rules, the government has submitted its alternative bill, which is registered with the Supreme Council, and we would like you to take into account the basic conceptual approaches that the government would like to express on this bill. The previous statement by the Minister of Finance, when the bill was being submitted, was based on the fact that the Ministry of Finance, together with the Institute of Social Research, conducted surveys of both taxpayers - individuals and employers of large businesses, small businesses, scientists, economists. We grouped these conclusions together and counted them in the drafting of the bill. So the bill of government is not really a fiscal bill of the Ministry of Finance, as expressed by the distinguished National MP, is the fruit of the work that we have done together with the institution mentioned, whose coworkers have expressed their wishes to take them into account in the bill. But first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is the income of the budget, which is very important for the formation of local budgets. I'll give you some statistics. An average of 65 percent of Ukraine’s local budgets are generated by income tax. Individual local budgets are formed by 80 percent and 90 percent of the source. So our approach to changing this type of tax was just to take into account the situation in the local budgets. We can't reject this important position because we need to understand that local budgets are losing the most important source of funding, and we can have a lot of trouble with the future implementation of our budget. So our position was to reform this tax in a step-by-step manner. Adopt a bill that the government is proposing this year and put it into effect on January 1st next year. We predict that our choice is not going to have a significant impact on income, because our proposals are to change rates, the scale of taxation, but to introduce some compensatory measures. Since the introduction of the scale and rates proposed by the government, the total budget loss will be 3.5 billion. We added this calculation to our project, it's always looked like this, and in previous calculations, it doesn't change either, because our ideas in this respect haven't changed. So, on the one hand, the state loses 3.5 billion dollars of local budgets, and on the other hand, we increase wages without changing tariffs, rates, and so on. At the start of compensatory incomes, we offer to give up the sectoral exemptions that exist today. [[And they're primarily about putting all citizens at the level of taxation.]] All citizens are equal before constitutional obligations, and they have their responsibilities under equal conditions. So in general, we can count on a budget loss of 1.2 billion dollars from the introduction of the law. Our budget projections tell us that we can handle the formation of local budgets. The option proposed by the people's deputy Teryochini, I repeat, leads to a budget loss of about 5 billion dollars, which is with the compensatory proposals that he has made. Losing 5.5 billion dollars The government budget won't last next year. We have to take that into account. We have many positions in line with what the national MP Terjehochin submits, but the government has taken into account what administrative costs we have to bear when introducing this bill. So we've put in place a series of simplified systems that will allow us to simplify both for a citizen and for a monitoring body to implement this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, is there a question? Please sign up if you do. We take five minutes to ask questions. Please point it on the board. The Veretennikov People's Deputy, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u140	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[constituency 28, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] Dear reporter! And in Teryochina's project, and in your project, and in my project, which I also put on this subject, there's a notion like a minimum of living. We know that the living minimum in Ukraine today is 342 bracelets. It must be established that with 50 percent of this minimum minimum of living, the tax should not be withdrawn at all. [[It's in my project.]] The minimum cost of living will change each year, but it is anticipated that 50 percent will not be taxed. What will this lead to? This will lead to a wage increase in low-income areas, and they will return this salary immediately. So this is going to lead to an economic growth, an additional increase in the budget. How do you view this question?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u141	This is the most painful question of the projects that we've discussed, which are being submitted by the government and the national MP. An untaxed share of the budget’s living minimum costs almost 4 billion dollars. I'll tell you, the 17 dollars that are today are for the 220 million budget. Most people get a salary right within the first scale, about 70 percent of all employees get a salary of up to 400 dollars, that is, within the minimum wage. To increase the untaxed portion from 17 to 360 is to lose the budget, I repeat, almost 4 billion dollars. By changing the tax scale and tax rates and at the same time raising the minimum of living, we're practically losing this source of budget revenue next year. Look, there's 11 billion planned, and according to the project, we could lose 8 billion. That's why the government is proposing to change the scale, and all tax payers are going to win the scale, because 3.5 billion will save people by paying the income tax. And in the 2005 budget, we're going to be able to solve the question of what level of non-taxable part we can introduce. We can bring this level to the minimum wage or to the minimum wage, we have to decide then, but it has to be closely linked to the results of local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u142	National Deputy Ponomarenko Georgi Grigorovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u143	Masenko will better make that point. Please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u144	Please. National MP Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u145	Thank you, Georgi Grigorovich. Vasil Vasilovich, I don't think you're going to deny that the tax should actually be reduced, and we're going to go to not just this tax, but all taxes should be reduced. But what does the government and the Ministry of Finance do to make sure that all the citizens' incomes are taken into account? There's no, I think, secret to the fact that we still have a salary still paid in envelopes or on some kind of black information or something. What is done in this direction to ensure that all the funds paid to middle - income citizens, or rich Ukrainian citizens, are included in taxation?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u146	Thank you for asking. I'd like to draw attention to the scale proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. First of all, we took into account the situation that today's wages are paid in envelopes, that is, not fixed in legal reports and certainly not subject to taxation. The scale proposed by the government predicts that income of up to 10,000 dollars per month will be taxed at an average rate of 15 percent. This suggests that the wage increase of the working class, the middle class in the first place, will not be subject to higher taxation. Taxes will be paid at virtually the same level. We think that's going to open up the part of the pay that's paid in envelopes. This is the first step. Step two. We think that the declaration system, the tax control system just provides for a scheme that will lose more when it gets under tax control when the payout in envelopes is shown. This means that people will refuse to do so. And the third point is that we are connected with the reform of the Pension Fund. By the way, our bill proposes the so-called grossing of wages when we propose to increase the citizen's earnings to the sum of social funds and introduce personal deductions to each of these funds. That is, transferring the deduction from the employer to a specific subject, to a specific individual. According to our calculations, this will also be a very positive factor in legalizing the level of wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u147	One last question. National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u148	aol's subcommittee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] Yavorowski, Jovkovsky district of Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear Vassil Vasilovich! So now the voters are listening to us, and they're probably inadvertently thinking that it's happening there, that they're proposing a bill that's actually going to throw 3.5 billion dollars out of the budget, especially from local budgets. It's on the one side. On the other hand, we all understand very well that this bill will at least take a little bit out of the shadow of our economy and ease the tax burden. I will have to vote nine times for Ukraine’s budget. I'm always put in such conditions that everything, the budget will be broken, it should be accepted immediately, because life in the state will stop, everything will stop. And then it turns out that the government doesn't completely implement this budget, it's practically nobody needs it. So I have a question: when do we get out of this vicious circle? Now you're going to scare us that there's going to be a budget deficit. And when are we going to get people off this absolutely insurmountable tax burden? Is there a way out? Are we going to be in this theater of absurdity for tens of years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u149	Thank you. I'm going to repeat that, really, when we prepared this project and submitted it to the Supreme Council, we were thinking first of all about the situation that's going to be with the local budgets. In no way did we try to make the local budgets lose their income and then expect a recalculation from the State Budget. In order to compensate for these losses, we are already predicting in the projected transfer calculations that the State budget will concentrate a certain part that will be passed on to offset local budgets. [[a the formation of basic income will now be transferred to large cities]] It's already been counted. And that figure I'm calling you is already pre-calculated and the situation with the local budgets. The proposals for the introduction of certain compensatory incomes of the budget have directed us to concentrate these incomes on the state budget level to calculate the local budget's income. These are the main, basic positions that we put in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u150	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues! We signed up to discuss this bill with four national deputies. Three minutes, I think we'll figure it out. The discussion takes 12 minutes. People's Deputy Kirichenko, faction of Ukraine. Please. Get ready for Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u151	First Deputy Head of the National Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Privatization. [[electoral district 108, Lugansk Region]] Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We have now heard the rapporteurs on the two bills proposed. You know, we took both of these bills very seriously. What they said today was that the budget was going to run out of $3 billion, in my opinion, it wasn't exactly a calculated amount. We have taken this approach: and if we make the bet one, 13 per cent. And we thought it would give the budget about nine billion fills. That's why I think it's a very important bill today, and I'd be very sorry if we could, as Terehin said on the third reading, would, of course, stop. I, out of two bills, am devoting the draft law proposed by Terehi, because in fact, I think it's a progressive bill, and we must all strive to do so. However, there are provisions that I do not agree with, and I would like to take this into account when preparing for second reading. See, a progressive but minimal scale of taxation is proposed and the tax base is expanding. And as this tax base expands, there is an inheritance, even a legacy of relatives. [[Sergei Anatolyevich knows that we're working in a group, I suggest we take this very seriously.]] Well, that's a serious question. Grandma's going to die, and some student has to pay him who knows what kind of money to get that inheritance. Or taxation of income from the sale of housing. I believe that this is an issue to which we must involve professionals who must work: how, perhaps, what housing may not be all housing. So these are the issues that need to be taken very seriously. Next. The question was that not everything should be introduced immediately. What pays taxes is absolutely true of all the income they receive. But you have to look, and maybe you don't put it right in. Moments such as, let's say, expanding the tax base. The miners get uniformed -- that's also income, free food -- and the uniform for the militia -- the same thing. I mean, we have to take this very seriously, once again. I propose to support the bill, but for second reading, it is very serious to finalize it specifically for the expansion of the tax base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u152	Thank you. National Deputy Assadchev, Our Ukraine. To prepare for the people’s representative of the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u153	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends, the bill is solid and, in principle, really good, but there are a few problems that I want to stop at. The main one is the scale. The scale is question number one. When the budget committee considered another bill from the government, then we supported the government scale because they thought that if we adopted the proposed scales now, there would be huge losses. [[Here we have to agree with what Vasil Vasilovich says now.]] What recipe? Let's think about it this way. On the basis of the accounts of the 17th anniversary, today's tax-free minimum, it's not appropriate. Ideally, it has to be a minimum of living. I assure you, we only have one way to go about this. We're going to have to make an annual transition scale. It's summer! We're not going to have another way out, because, believe me, no one's going to predict the consequences now, no one's going to count. I just know how the Ministry of Economics counts. We need to see how this works in real life. We're going to have to develop a transition scale. And I think we need to work on this with the committee of profile that is preparing this bill in a professional way, and with the Committee on Budget Affairs. So this is question number one. Question number two. [[This is my request to the Head of the Supreme Council.]] In parallel with this bill, a bill on personal pension accounts, i.e. pension reform, should be put in place immediately. Because you realize that until a person's salary is personalized to recalculate his pension, he'll still be in the shadows, and just by adopting this law, we won't be able to get him out of the shadows. The Committee on Budgets also drew attention to this issue, and I pay attention and believe that two relevant bills on these two issues should be combined and adopted together. Question three. I'm drawing your attention to the Final Positions, this is a very important moment: let's not play with the Criminal Code. The penalties provided for in the Criminal Code are calculated from the current tax-free minimum income of 17 dollars. Look, if there's a fine of 100 untaxed minimums, it's 1,700 dollars, and if there's a bill of law, it's going to be 12,000! It's a big difference. Thus, the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Offences will have to be brought into conformity with this law. Nevertheless, I propose to accept this project in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u154	Thank you. The king’s national deputy refused to speak because he had said everything before. National Deputy Alexandrovsky, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u155	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] I believe that his monumentality can be attributed to the positive qualities of the bill that Terehina reported. However, not all the provisions of the proposed instrument could be accepted. Of course, tax rates need to be reduced, and no one can argue with that. But the taxation scale can in no way be regressive. Here, indeed, an interesting scheme is proposed: lowering taxes from low incomes, then 15 per cent from fairly high incomes, then lowering the rate again to 13 per cent. I think that's the wrong approach. First, it will be very difficult to determine when the stakes must be reduced. Secondly, today the state of the economy of Ukraine is such that it seems to me that it is not serious to introduce a regressive scale. What else can't be agreed with? The authors of the project attempted to expand the tax base. Indeed, there is a need to seek ways to expand the tax base, but what is proposed here is considered impossible to support. Well, how can we support the proposal to keep the public work fee, which is organized by the Employment Service and financed from the budget? What's the point? In fact, it is social assistance to a person with a constitutional right to work. Today, you know, many people are deprived of such a right, so the State offers them minimal assistance, organizes public works, allocates budgetary resources, and cannot withhold taxes from these funds. [[Of course, and for this work he must receive a decent wage]] I totally don't support the offer to keep taxes on scholarships for students and students. In fact, it is also social support for young people so that they can receive education. It's State support, it's budget money, and it's tax evasion, I think it's completely wrong. The same should be said of pension accounts, pension payments. That is, this part of the draft law cannot be supported in any way. Moreover, the proposal to retain the income tax that people receive from renting land cannot be supported. Today, people living in rural areas who are unable to work somewhere have little income from renting land. [[There's almost 100 percent unemployment.]] Often, however, they are forced to rent land only because they cannot handle it themselves. These poor amounts are proposed to be taxed. For that reason, the bill could also not be supported. I believe that we need to continue this work and establish a law of Ukraine that harmonizes the interests of both the State and the public and of the individual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are finalizing this issue. Our colleague Teryohin asks for a few minutes to conclude. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words about your performances. I'm referring especially to the representative of Alexandrovsky. The thing is, you didn't look there in the draft law. What you said is a list of the main income points. As taxed, scholarships will not be taxed, nor will the wages paid by the Employment Service. You've just looked at the section where it's defined, what's the main destination and what's the non-core. What's it say? Take a look, please. The main source of income. This does not mean that he is taxed. See what incomes are not included in gross income. You'll find everything you call there. Look carefully, this bill does not provide for a narrowing of social benefits, and in some cases it expands, count. Now, let us turn to Vasil Vasilovich Regurecki. Dear friends, please tell me, if a person starts getting more pay, where does he put it, he'll take it to the banks? No! No! The vast majority of people -- more than 80 percent, who have low incomes, will take them where? To the stores, to the market, where they'll pay the value added tax. So unfortunately, the calculations provided by the Cabinet of Ministers are arithmetic, and this law needs to be evaluated with algebra, so to speak, what will be the effect of lowering basic wage taxes primarily for the underprivileged. Regressive scale. In fact, we had many arguments about this. Maybe after the project is discussed, we'll give it up. But I remind you that some countries have made these decisions about very high incomes during the period of economic growth. And what happened? These offshore incomes were transferred to these countries. But in order for a regressive scale to start paying, the payer will have to pay large taxes on the previous scale, i.e. pay a lot of taxes to society. Dear friends, I remind you that we are only looking at this bill on the first reading. Its adoption should contribute to increasing the income of our citizens, legalizing income and increasing budget revenues. I beg of you for some ambition, because of the imperfections of individual articles, not to give up on supporting it in the first reading and then to invite you to our committee, we will correct anything that raises a lot of attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The consideration of this issue is concluded, and we will be determined tomorrow. I would just like to point out that this is a rereading of the first reading, which is that we have already had the opportunity to improve this bill. Regarding the proposal made by the people’s deputy, Assadchev. A protocol commission will be prepared and sent to the committee requesting that we expedite the introduction of the relevant bill. Dear colleagues! We have ten minutes to work. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information urges us to consider the draft Law on the appointment of heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the termination of their powers. If you have no objection, we will extend our work by 15 minutes, and we will consider this project quickly. Is there no objection? I invite you to report to the rostrum of national deputy Jovtak Evgen Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u159	Kyevo-Svetoshinsky and Irpine constituency. The faction of our Ukraine. For no one in Ukraine today is a secret that there is total censorship in the entire information space of Ukraine, an informational blockade of opposition, a prison where it is determined which media events should be highlighted and which are not recommended. But even in this ghastly prison swamp, the work of the National Television Company and the National Radio Company, which became the conviction of most of my constituents with whom I had to communicate, was a national disgrace to Ukraine. As a legislative body, we do not have the right to accept this situation further and should use all the means provided for in the Constitution to remedy it. Article 92 of the Constitution obliges Ukraine to determine exclusively the principles and activities of the media. The draft Law on the appointment and termination of their powers by the Heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine aims to establish order for the appointment and release of the leaders of these leading information systems of the country, because the uncertainty of this procedure will exacerbate the situation further. [[presidents]] To date, both the head of the television company and the head of the radio company have been appointed by the President of Ukraine, and of course, none of their professionalism is involved, nor is there any objective coverage in the information space, on the radio and television channels of the political situation in the country. These positions are assigned to people who are personally devoted to the President and who are willing to carry out any of his demands, including those who are willing to fail to implement the legitimate decisions of the Supreme Council on how to explain the activities of the Supreme Council. That is why the bill stipulates that the appointment of the head of the television company and the head of the radio company will be carried out on a paritary basis by the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. The envisaged procedure for the President to make his proposals is for the Supreme Council to consider and make decisions. Similarly, there cannot be a single decision about the release of these leaders. If the President is dissatisfied with the work of the head of the television or radio company, he should go to the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council or support the President's proposal to change the leader, or he would reject such a proposal and within six months, the President has no right to repeat the matter. Likewise, the Supreme Council may initiate the release of the head of a television or radio company, but it must take into account the president's opinion. And after the President's opinion has been made, the Supreme Council has the right to agree or disagree with it. The procedure for the submission of nominations, the procedure for the consideration of nominations and the procedure for the review of submission for release of directors of the television and radio companies are set out in this draft law. I think that this project is extremely relevant and very necessary for Ukraine; it needs to change the state's radio area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Five minutes to ask. Please sign up. Please explain the list. National MP Petrenko, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u161	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u162	National MP Ponomarenko, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u163	Eugene Dmitrovich, you remember, there were many times when the Supreme Council released a constitutionally appointed official, and the President was sneezing! If your project is adopted as a law, it is simply declared unconstitutional! It's not the law that needs to be changed, it's the system! What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u164	Thank you for asking. Of course, I'm convinced that we need to change the system first, but that doesn't mean that once the regime is changed, after the system changes, these procedures will not have to be regulated by law. If you and I are able to settle the issue of assigning the directors of the television company and the radio company to change the regime, it won't be a big deal. Of course, if we adopt this law, I think the President will most likely veto it. This veto is going to have to get over it, but we're not going anywhere. There is an unresolved problem, there is an article in the Constitution that requires a solution to this problem, and our constitutional duty to settle it, not forgetting that the criminal regime of Kuchma must certainly be removed from power.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u165	Vladimir Julius Pehota, European Choice Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u166	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] I'm sorry, I don't quite understand what you're proposing to assign the heads of the state radio company and the television company. We have come to the conclusion in this room that there must be a majority of the MPs who will take responsibility for the formation of all the authorities of the State. If so, should we look separately at the nominations of heads, such as ministries, or television companies, or some other body? We need to form a majority, and let the majority propose to Parliament these candidatures, we will consider them. And we don't have to involve the president here or anyone else. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u167	I see. The problem of the majority in the future also needs a legislative settlement. Yes, we can by consensus, through some agreement with the President to establish that the Supreme Council is forming the Cabinet of Ministers, and the President approves, according to the Constitution, that Cabinet of Ministers, which will be formed by the Supreme Council. However, it is certainly necessary to ensure that this arrangement is enshrined in a specific law. With regard to the appointment of directors of the television company and the radio company. They are not members of the government, and it is clear that the system of government formation here is not entirely appropriate. Of course, however, the State’s legislative body does not have the right to be on the sidelines of such positions of responsibility. And we cannot accept the situation that has taken place today. Under the Constitution, the principles of media formation and activity, including the appointment of managers, are defined exclusively by law. There is no such law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u168	People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u169	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[electoral district 121, Lviv region]] Dear colleague! Of course, the project is well written, and in general, I support it, I think it's necessary, regardless of whether it will be vetoed, whether it will be signed by the President. After all, it doesn't matter, because a law that regulates a very important part of the work of the Supreme Council is necessary. I am interested in such a specific question. For example, a Ukrainian national MP or a group of Ukrainian national deputies are deprived of access to their electorate through the media, including radio and television. It's not clear here, I think it's been written, what kind of punishment is it going to be for the heads of a television or radio company, and what will be the actions of the Supreme Council in relation to the NTC and NRC leaders approved by it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u170	I see. Thank you. First of all, I'm going to point out that this is a draft law on the appointment of the heads of the national television company and the radio company. If the MPs have been turned down somewhere in his district, he should certainly appeal to the leadership of the relevant national company and to the court in parallel. It's another thing if they're mass phenomena. But today it's just stupid, observant opposition doesn't say a word. Last night, the News program was not aired, just to avoid giving the opposition five minutes to speak out, which had also been blocked. If these are recurring phenomena, it is stipulated that 150 national deputies should have the right to initiate consideration of the report of the head of a television company or the head of a radio company. Of course, consideration of this report can result in the resignation of such a company manager. 150 votes is small or large? In principle, we took a third of the constitutional composition of Parliament. This guarantees in most cases the right of opposition to defend its rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u171	Thank you, Eugene Dmitriovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. It's on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikolo Volodymyrovich, you gave us a schedule, there's no report from you. You signed this document, please read it. Then speak in an orderly fashion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u172	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear colleagues! The committee has considered this issue, and we have many unprincipled procedural warnings, since it is a matter of assigning rather high officials to perform serious functions. But we do propose to adopt this bill in the first reading and to work on it for the second reading in order to remove the problems. One problem concerns the status of the National Television Company. We also realize that there's nothing wrong with the organization of work, but also with the finances, because my predecessor as chairman of the committee has repeatedly addressed the Court of Auditors, which has been a serious breach in the use of budgetary resources. There are serious problems in advertising various structures that operate in the National Television Company. And this, I emphasize, is in the National Television Company, which should represent the interests of the whole state, the interests of the whole society. There's nothing wrong with the status of the labour force, which today, after the Cabinet of Ministers' decision, has no rights at all. Today, a journalist at the National Television Company, paradoxically speaking, is the most vulnerable person, although it was thought that journalists were dependent on private and commercial channels. At the National Television, as journalists tell me, the situation is very difficult. The labor force did not generally gather during the last period and could not say a word. Today, in the editorial paper that prepares news, many responsible officials, graduate editors are people who don't work all the time at the National Television Company. There was a situation where some programs are prepared jointly by two companies, such as the National Company and the ICTV, and the archives, the materials that were created in this state television company, are used together with a private television company, for two gaps, as it were. The problem of leadership is also related to other problems. A decree of the Cabinet of Ministers has been adopted that is contrary to the Law on Television and Radio. Because the Supreme Council and the President must jointly determine how to manage such a serious public and national resource as the television company. But the Cabinet of Ministers has determined that all matters are now decided solely by the President. Even the Supervisory Board can't interfere with the channel's programming policy, and the labor team can do more. So we think that this project is just the first step. Of course, we need to think about how to regulate both the status of the labour force and the status and activities of the Supervisory Board. Not just what the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's Administration have created right now, because then it's better to name the National Television Company as the President's and the Cabinet of Ministers, but simply forget about the Supreme Council, because it has no influence there. So I propose to accept the project in the first reading, especially since the committee's position coincides with the conclusion of our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which recommends that the project be adopted in the first reading and that its procedural part be further developed so that there is no question of who has more authority, either the President or the Supreme Council. They are equal to the law on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u173	The Yavorowski People's Deputy is also from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u174	Head of the radio and television subcommittee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. Dear colleagues! For many years, we have been talking about various branches of authority. Today we're convinced that these branches are just branches that some people tend to take the best of them. And there is one branch of power that represents a trunk with rotten roots. His name is President. The fact that Ukraine is now in one of the last places of freedom of speech is probably the greatest disgrace our Ukrainian nation and our Ukrainian state have with you. The bill, which is proposed, foresees the possibility of a little bit spreading the issue. I'd like to say right now, don't let the presidential factions get in this aggressive position right now, because that's what they need. It's very necessary today for both Nabrusk and Storobuk to feel human, not, if you'll excuse me, "swanders" who do not even the President's will, but the people around the President are calling, giving instructions. It's just hard to imagine what's happening today in our information space. I'm not going to say that this bill is perfect, there are a lot of things that call me into question, but if it's adopted, we, parliamentarians, representatives of the people will finally be able to influence the actions of the President, the television company and the radio company. To be honest, the best, ideal way out is to accept today's proposal that there be a social radio and social television in Ukraine that will be run by a non-man appointed from the Cabinet of Ministers or from where, and this will be an election position, it will be a supervisory council. [[And our committee will offer it to the Supreme Council.]] You know that's the best option. Virtually nowhere in the world is there now any state or government radio and television companies. The government acts as an equal customer so that the position, for example, of government, is reflected on radio or on television. Of course, we're very far away from that. But I'm just asking you: let's take the first step to free journalists. I know very well the situation of journalists in the First National Channel today, who are forced to do the will of the Presidential forces alone. And the same thing happens on the radio. My program on Radio "Twenty Minutes With Yavorowski" was shut down. [[The most exciting was the program on the radio, 24 thousand letters came]] Seven-footer gave the order, that's all. So he told the president of the radio company: either you or Yavorowski. Clearly, the president of the radio company is closer to himself than Javorowski. For that to happen, I'm just asking very much in the first reading to vote for this bill, and in the second, we're going to polish some of the mechanisms. It also takes into account the interests of the President, and we will have the right to vote with you people's deputies. I believe so. Hold on!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u175	Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u176	"Our Ukraine." The city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! He who has television has no doubt that we need such a law. Because of all the TV channels, the weakest is the first national. The worst part is not because the worst journalists work there, but because of the level of guidance given by the channel. Is that the law we need? I think that this project is polished and done at a very high professional level, as all the bills that our colleague Vitaly Shevchenko was preparing, which led the copyright team in this case. So I have no doubt that we should accept him in the first reading. But one very serious warning to this bill, which I've learned very carefully, I do. The first article foresees that heads of national television companies and radio companies stop membership in political parties. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters, we once had a clear and clear record that the party was the organizer and instigator of all our victories, was a political responsibility. [[Then I was Communist.]] [[as well as defeat]] Today we have a non-party not only president of NTCU, we have a non-party president of the state! What's so good about that? You know, the discipline of the party of power is tough. In fact, it's an organized party, true, shadowy, but it doesn't have any responsibility. So the weaker sides of this we have, and the stronger sides we don't have. Today, in society at all levels of leadership, the alternative is absolutely clear: either transparent parties with applications, personal compositions, or dark clans that govern both the state, like now, and the television space that I think we need for the ear and the sun. We need to identify who, which political power controls both the state and the radio. I think we should not be afraid of partying, because non-partisan leadership, which, by the way, in the European states to which we said we are going, is nowhere, because it is a disaster, not something good. In addition, the issue of systematic failure to broadcast the Supreme Council meetings was raised. They are not implemented because there is a three - percent discriminatory norm in the Supreme Council Act. For two years now, dust has been covered somewhere in the Supreme Council with my bill number 1012, which could eliminate this discrimination and open up the green street to direct broadcasts. [[It's included in the agenda, but it's not coming up.]] That's why I'm now addressing both the Head of the Professional Committee and the Head of the Supreme Council with the request to lift the information blockade on our electorate and still put Bill 1012 under consideration in the part of the agenda of the meetings to which the turn comes. Because, dear friends, we don't have a rat in our mouth, but in the microphones we're talking about, there's a trap-- voters can't hear us. It's an abnormal situation. Thank you for your attention. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u177	Thank you. Pavlovsky's national deputy, Mikhailo Antonovich, and we finish. Dear colleagues, while Mikhailo Antonovich is coming, I would like to inform you that the decision to explain the activities of the Supreme Council for the second session is being fully implemented. This may not be enough, but what we have voted for, what we have determined, is being done to the fullest extent. So I think we should be correct in our assessments. As for Bill 1012, I ask the secretariat to submit this bill so that the Conciliation Council can consider it. Please, Michael Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u178	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends! I was eager to ask the question of Pehot’s deputy. The thing is, I've been to the National Television not once, and I've expressed my desire to speak. But each time I received a refusal. You show them the Law on the Status of People’s Deputies, and they answer you just like a circuit overseer. He said to me, "What do you owe me? We live by orders, not by laws. I didn't sign your contract." So it's a television company headed by Storobuk. "Whom did I sign the contract with -- that's what I'm working with, and why should I have democracy? I have to, he says, work." We are already convinced, especially tonight, that we have a dictatorship. There is no democracy. At two o’clock in the morning, an MP is said to have been charged with a criminal case without the approval of the Supreme Council, saying that you are under arrest and unable to move. That's how the Attorney General treats it. And the Law on the Status of People's Deputies does not apply to them. So if we let the majority decide everything, then the other deputies are worthless. And all deputies have the same mandate! Most solve global and other issues, but it should not violate democracy. By the way, I've done this before: there's no law in any country of the world about the majority or the minority. They form, they exist, but they are not subject to the law. Victor Medvedchuk, a lawyer, proposed a draft law on majority and minority. When I read it, I came to the conclusion that if you are in a minority, you should go to prison right away. Even the President has come to the conclusion that democracy must be built. Then we should start with the Supreme Council. This bill is the answer to problems. We must somehow begin to overcome the conditions of dictatorship that we have today. And that's why I'm proposing to adopt this bill in the first reading, to work on it, and to become above the position that some people today are given even in the Supreme Council, because it's temporary. Democracy is eternal, dictatorship is temporary! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-25-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The decision will be made tomorrow. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 16 o'clock, work on committees and factions. Tomorrow is the day of the Supreme Council's decision.
