ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-16-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for registration. There are 364 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session open. There are no proposals for packets from the faction at the moment. There's a meeting going on. Who can tell from the faction of "The One Ukraine" if there are proposals for a package? No information? Is Vladimir Mikhailovich gone? None. Dear National Deputies! At the moment, from the way things are going, I'd like to give a word to our colleague Polishku Mikoli for help. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-16-m1.u2	National deputy of Ukraine. [[election district 214, Kiev]] The faction of our Ukraine. Masterful colleagues! I would like to inform both my constituents, Kyiv, and you that Mikola Polishchuk was going under the banner of Victor Yushchenk's "Our Ukraine," working under this flag and working, and in no other faction is going to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-16-m1.u3	Faction leaders, please meet in the Bureau Hall on the third floor right now. Where you're going at all, you know. And I'm calling it a half-hour break. I realized that everyone was sitting there and didn't know what to do for half an hour while the faction leaders were counseling. Please, we may be anywhere, but I am obliged to announce a recess for half an hour. We can exchange thoughts after a break. I promise you, after a break, we will definitely exchange our thoughts. I'll give you my word for it, and we'll decide what to do next.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-16-m1.u4	Please take your seats in the hall. Dear National Deputies! Have a seat, please. I'm asking you to sit down literally for a minute, but not with high hopes for something. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Sit down, please, those who have not yet insisted. Dear National Deputies! I'm leading you to your knowledge that there's been a discussion right now, the faction leaders' council, and with their agreement, I'd like to inform you that they're now continuing their constructive work and they're proposing to conclude today, and by 10 a.m. tomorrow they're going to make appropriate proposals. I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll get back to work. Thank you for your attention.
