ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like you, your honors, to take your jobs and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:01:25]] Registered -393 There are 393 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Mikoli Volodymyrovich Tomenka. Let's welcome him and wish him well. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that yesterday we held a meeting on the future share of the 2003 state budget. We found full understanding, with the participation of faction leaders, it was a council, members of the government and the budget committee, as well as other committees that have a direct bearing on this important document. In order for us to adopt this document before New Year's, and we have to do it, we have to do it, I'm sure we'll have to make one decision. It's about having a plenary next week, and then 8, 9, 10th, January 2003, we won't. I'd like you, my fellow Members, to vote on this decision today so that we can plan this work. You've been given a draft ruling. I would like to request that at Mikola Tomenka's birthday, we withdraw our draft decrees so that we can work the next plenary week instead of continuing after January 20. I would like to vote in favour of including in the schedule of our session a draft decree amending the calendar of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Please vote in favour. Please be supportive. [[10:03:35]] For 254 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of number 2498-I. And by factions, we'll explain. Please vote. Can I have your back, please? [[10:04:05]] For 262 What will be the point of this draft decision? In factions, please give. Mikola Rudzkowski, please. You won't, will you? He's giving up the word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the entire draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:04:55]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. In factions, please explain. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to make applications, requests, messages and proposals to the people's deputies. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to sign up for the speech. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Is there no objection? A request was received from Ukrainian national deputies: the national deputy Anishuk to Prime Minister Yanukovic of Ukraine for an unwarranted increase in tariffs by organizations that provide cable television services in the Odessa region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please. They'll be out in a minute, I'll tell you. Let's vote, and then they'll explain. [[10:06:00]] For 211 Decision taken. I ask you to explain the names of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. Thank you. Eugene Zovtjak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of obstacles on the part of the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration to the execution of the Ukrainian Supreme Council decision on the report of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting for 2001 on the removal from office of the National Council of Boris Cold for distrust. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:53]] For 111 Decision taken. Mikli Kravchenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the size and shape of the emblems of local council members. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:19]] For-167 Decision taken. Group of People's Deputies Shirko, Alexeyev, Red to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, The Prime Minister of Ukraine's dissatisfaction with the Office of the Ministers of the Supreme Council's decision on information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of pricing and tariff formation in the housing and utility sphere. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:54]] For 155 For -155, the decision is made. Hennady Rudenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of funding for state-owned central capital funds for the construction of social buildings in the Poltavian region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:22]] For 118 For 118, the decision is made. Ivan Tomić to Prime Minister of Ukraine due to the lack of budgetary funding for the Crimea Scientific Research Station of the National Consortium of "Criphitotherapy". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:53]] For a hundred and For - 159, the decision is made. Peter Simonenck to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the compliance of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decrees of July 11, 2002, number 955 and number 989 with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine concerning the interpretation of the provision of article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the provision of free medical care. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:34]] For-138 For negative 138, the decision is made. Hennady Rudenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the practice of implementing the right to payment of municipal services to workers and veterans of internal affairs in the Poltava region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:04]] For a-117. For - 117. Decision taken. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide a justification for the sale of 51 percent of the shares of the Open Shareholders Association "Ukranafta". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:33]] For 135 In 135, the decision is made. Alexander Kozachenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure of Ukraine’s State Treasury to execute judicial decisions to compensate judges for unused service fees and debts. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:07]] For 111 For negative 111, the decision is made. Vladimir Zubanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the gasification of the village of Zuyovka Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:31]] For 105 For negative 105, the decision is made. Vassil Nadraga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of arrears to citizens of the Lugansk region affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:58]] For a hundred and For - 156, the decision is made. Boris Rajkov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the reconstruction of the main teaching body of the Cerka State University of Bogdan Hmelnick. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:24]] For a hundred and For 130, the decision is made. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the return to the state reserve of grains was misdelivered by the Kostopilian bread company of the State Shareholder Company "The Bread of Ukraine". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:55]] For 124 Decision taken. Georgia Kruczkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of the Odessa Broda oil pipeline. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:21]] For-154 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Mihovich, Baloga, Ivancho to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding anti-spooning work in Zakarpat, provided for by appropriate government programmes. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:50]] For-162 Decision taken. Paul Žebrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of vocational schools in the city of Berdičev of Žitomir district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:17]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Boris Rajkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financing the construction of water and water supplies in Cherkas. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:45]] For 131 Decision taken. Alexander Pecklusenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the renewal of benefits to medical and pharmaceutical workers living in rural areas. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:12]] For-144 "For" is 144, the decision is made. Gregory of Omelchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the constitutionality of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decrees of 12 of January 8, 2000, in part that defines a new order for the number of pensions, which violates the constitutional rights of military and law enforcement officials. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:48]] For-136 "For" is 136, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies Oneschuk and others to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers decree 1088 of 29 July 2002 on the allocation of funds for damages caused by natural phenomena in March-July 2002 in the Ternopil region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:25]] For-129 "For" is 129, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies: Moroz, Gavrish, Desert Tenko, Martinyuk and others - to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the creation and equipping of a baby cardiosurgery centre in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:53]] For 227 "For" is 227, the decision is made. Mikli Tomenka is headed by the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on providing information on the structure and staffing of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:20]] For-182 "For" is 182, the decision is made. Anatolia Kukoba - to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Mikolia Azarov for the financing of the planned aid for the Poltava area to the district budget for the provision of benefits and subsidies to the population in 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:53]] For 131 Decision taken. Raisy of Bogatyrov to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vitali Hayduk regarding the repayment of debts to miners and the upgrade of equipment in the mines of the Proletar district of Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:20]] For-127 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Puzakov, Tkachenko, Parubek to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Ivan Kirilenko on the critical situation in the SP "Sbotka" of the Poznań district of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:49]] For-142 Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of Slavić stockholders. [[Cherkasi City]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:14]] For-137 Decision taken. Vasil Gladys to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the enforcement of law enforcement by the Balakli Water Management Authority on water supply. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:43]] For 171 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the full response to the request for information regarding the attempted bribery of members of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, published by the First National Television with a reference to the Attorney General’s Office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:15.]] For-179 For - 179, the decision is made. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of effective legislation by the regional branch of the State Property Fund of Ukraine in the Lviv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. 0: 8:41 p.m. For a hundred and Decision taken. Grigory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the theft of Ukrainian state officials, officials of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz, Ukraine and the Bank of Ukrgazbank of State funds worth more than 42 million dollars. United States dollars. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:17]] For-127 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of exceeding official powers, the issue of regulatory acts that alter the revenue and expenditure of the State budget, contrary to the legal order established by the former Minister of Finance of Jusk Igor. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:51]] For 112 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population from the Blackwater Disaster in connection with the situation of payment of debts to the Chernobyl AES disaster liquidators living in the village of the Honcharov region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:25]] For-137 Decision taken. Alexander Golub to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the Ministry for the Non-implementation of Contractive Copies of Audiovisual Works and Phonograms and Cooperation with Public Organisations for the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:58]] For 109 Decision taken. Paul Žebrovsky to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the status of implementation of Cabinet of Ministers’ decree No. 436 of May 6, 2001, concerning the computer program for rural schools. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:30.]] For-136 Decision taken. Vladimir Ryabika to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the failure to execute a court decision by the local court of the Kyiv district of Poltava concerning the closure of the Youth Association of Cherkasa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:00]] For-78 In 78, no decision is made. Group of National Deputies Karmazin, Omelchenko, Cloud to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the creation of a joint investigation team to investigate the arson of the headquarters of the Chief Adviser to the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and the Corruption of Barnacsky for the purpose of intimidation in connection with his official duties. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:43]] For 168 In 168, the decision was made. Vladimir Leschchenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources in order to repay the debt owed to Czernigivodbud shareholders for their work. I'll bet you a vote on the request. It'll take a minute for the honorary colleagues to make the system work. Let's not waste time, let's move on to. From the procedure? Has the system gone? Let us vote in favour of this final request, my fellow believers. You should, you should. Please vote. [[10:25:53]] For 133 For - 133, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, let's move on to making statements, messages. We voted on all your questions. Well, I'm asking you and the Secretariat to find out, we'll vote. All that was, we voted, including there and your questions were, Stepan Ilkovich. Please highlight those who sign up for the talk. Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u2	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party, 152nd constituency. Dear voters, I would like to address you with the fact that the Socialist Party of Ukraine, in carrying out its programme and pre-election program, is constantly concerned about strengthening the peoples of the country. That's why in the Constitution of Ukraine, in article 5, we wrote that the only authority and source is the Ukrainian people, that no one can usurp power. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to what is awe - inspiring to the political euphoria of some of our high officials, who happily claim that in the end they have gathered all power in their hands, that is, usurped. I mean the President of Ukraine, the government and so-called parliamentary majority. In fact, when we wrote the Constitution, Sergey Soboljev was asked to write down such a rule that the President appoints the Prime Minister at the agreement of most of the Supreme Council. But this majority was to be chosen in the course of the national elections. Thus people’s will is ignored. And most of them, who are artificially created, who have been betrayed by those who have gone through our Ukraine, the Communist Party, the Socialist Party and the Yulia Timoshenko Block, are unfortunately playing a role that our electorates have not given her rights to. In this regard, I would like to state responsibly that the newly formed government is not a coalition government, it is not a professional government, because it was shaped like this: The president called the candidature, and the quota seemed to be a faction or a parliamentary group. Thus, there is no politically responsible authority in Ukraine. This authority will bring no benefit to the nation. This will testify to the accepted budget, where the new government is already refusing the social guarantees offered by the budgetary committee. The Socialist Party of Ukraine says that this government is anti-national. And this government and I will not cooperate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u3	National Deputy Babourin, Communist faction, prepare Kuzmuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u4	I would like to take the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u5	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, in connection with recent developments in the country’s political life, the Company’s faction considers it necessary to make the following statement. Parliamentarianism in Ukraine, which under the Constitution is to be a democratic rule of law, has been subjected to another destructive blow. The signing by Prime Minister Yanukovic, the leaders of the so - called parliamentary majority and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the presence of the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, Kuchma, the political agreement on cooperation and solidarity between the so - called coalition cabinet of Ministers and the so - called parliamentary majority is a conspiracy between the political Pharisees who came out of their mercantile corporate interests. This signing marked a strong division of the results of parliamentary elections, another coup d'état in order to preserve the hateful people of the political regime that characterizes Kuchma and her through a corrupt environment, creating conditions for a new power-sharing and plundered national property among the mafia clans for the transfer of state posts to inheritance. The signing of the agreement essentially means the usurpation of the legislative authority, which is solely the prerogative of the only legitimate body in the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In fact, the principle of power-sharing, the constitutional rights of the national deputies, as declared in the Constitution of Ukraine. And this time, the instigators and organizers of the coup acted on the scenario developed by its ideologists and implemented in January 2000. What is the danger of a new coup against the citizens of Ukraine, our destitute, faithless, humiliated people? The so-called coalition government and the president are putting unpopular decisions first. What this will accomplish for our citizens is, in particular, the removal of veterans of war and labor, the disabled, the military nationalists, the military personnel of other categories of citizens established by valid social guarantees laws, as they did after the last anti-constitutional coup. It's a further increase in electricity, housing, transportation, housing and other services, it's an insurmountable increase in prices for medicines, food, commodities, it's the adoption of the Housing Code, which will force or force citizens to move out of their homes because they don't pay their wages, low incomes don't have the ability to pay their rent at the same time, it's a meager budget allocation for social security, education, science, culture. So this is about a new attack on the standard of living and the constitutional rights of citizens. The government of Janukovič, like its predecessors, will never, in the interests of criminal clans, set up a state monopoly on liquor and tobacco products, to deprive businesses of structural legal tax benefits, to close channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u7	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u8	I'm done. ..costs abroad, causing the state to lose tens of billions of dollars. Our citizens should know about this. Under these circumstances, the faction, acting within the Constitution and the laws of U, defending the interests of its constituents, will take any action to protect Parliamentarianism and democracy in Ukraine and to counter the criminal intentions and actions of the ruling regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u9	Alexander Kuzmuk, a faction of industrialists, entrepreneurs, and Hard Ukraine. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Last Wednesday, members of Parliament’s hearings, journalists, politicians, and deputies expressed enormous claims to the authorities about the improper provision of constitutional guarantees of freedom of speech in Ukraine. The media justly demanded a legislative limitation on money, compensation, which in court cases are insulted by the characters of publications and critical transfers. Regrettably, however, there is no less acute problem with journalists and publishers with such dangerous weapons as the word and object of the camera. In this regard, our faction considers it necessary to draw Parliament's attention to the publication of the December 6th, this year in the newspaper "The Village News" of the article Stephen Kolesnik "The River of Rostavic". A drawing with such a lyric title actually contains a number of serious accusations against our fellow National Deputy Tetjana Draha, who clearly views them as brutal insinuation, public defamation of her honour and dignity. Since the newspaper has long and systematic warfare with the Susha family, it accuses it of all thoughtless and unthinkable sins and abuses, a faction of political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and of "Trouble Ukraine" asks the Supreme Council to establish a special inquiry commission to verify the facts referred to in the article of Stephen Kolesnik "The River of Rostauitsa". If the facts do not find evidence, we leave the right to demand from the Attorney General's Office a legal assessment of the common information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u11	National Deputy Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready, Harmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u12	People's Deputy Bulba, Socialist faction. In general, I wanted to address the problems of pensioners, the problems of municipal payments, but after a previous colleague spoke, I had to pass the word to John Sidorovich Bokom. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u13	Ivan Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, in connection with Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, I would like to make some additions to what he has said. He said only one publication by Stephen Kolesnik, and I want to talk about how things have been going on without defending the characters of the publication or the author of the publication. And I would like to pay particular attention and be heard by Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk and the members of the Faction of the SDPU(o) because the publication by Stephen Kolesnik was about the invasions of the head of the Kyiv District Administration of the Drought and the entire ruling clan in Kiev by the entrepreneur, member of the SDPU(o) John Suslov of Squira, who I say is not going to protect. But if his guilt and his Sushu clan are being pursued consistently and for a long time, if his guilt has not been legally proved by either court or investigation, how can we justify the attacks that took place since his publication on Suslov’s entrepreneur? Last night's "Village News" was very detailed about this. The point is that prior to the persecution of Suslov's entrepreneur, the militia, the militia special unit, Cobra, was involved in the gang. On Friday night, the Berkut militia unit and the DAI employees stopped and, you know, they were looking for a weapon outside there looking for a god who knows what even threatened that if he didn't change the political beliefs that he didn't know. or whatever, he's not going to have a peaceful life, he's going to have drugs, weapons, and so on. On Saturday it was continued. Then, at six o'clock in Squire with the vending machines, there, and the carbines were walking the Cobra unit, they were intimidated, they were going to take off the numbers, but then they were crazy enough to get back to Kiev. They said that they would not follow the direction of the Drought and would not break the law. So I'd like to draw attention to the fact that, for me, it's the same thing, that Suslov, that Wheeler is whoever it is, but the law is the same for everyone. And I'd like to draw the attention of the faction of the SDP to protect its own people, not to mock the regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u15	Galina Harmash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, prepare for Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u16	Harmash, Ukrainian Socialist Party. Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u17	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u18	Alexander Turchinov, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Dear National Deputies! Today in Ukraine there is a systematic and sequential coup, an open, immoral review of the will of our people and the destruction of parliamentaryism. By bribery, intimidation, and blackmail of national MPs, the regime led by Kuchma usurped the legislative authority and actually privatized the government. And in order to establish a completely uncontrollable and unpunished rule, he launched an attack on the judiciary -- the last bastion of democracy. The very idea of an independent court is now about to be destroyed. One of the strokes of such destruction was unprecedented harassment with the help of the Handy High Council of Justice, Justice Yuri Vasilenko, or not the only honest judge in Ukraine who had sufficient civil courage, professional honor, to have deserved and lawfully prosecuted a criminal case against a citizen of Kuchma. After no court in Ukraine and no investigating prosecutor was able to find legal arguments for blocking and closing this case, the system was committed to the destruction of man. Today, in carrying out an open political order, Judge Vassilka seeks to deprive her of the legal right to be tried, discredited, and silenced. In view of this faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko warns that in the event that any steps will be taken by the Higher Council of Justice to restrict Yuri Vasilenko's professional powers, we will be asking questions about the mistrust of this council, which, by the way, is devoid of legitimate leadership and is now an example of lawlessness and hypocrisy. Another milestone in the restoration of totalitarianism in Ukraine was the Melitopol case with the election to the Supreme Council. It's not the first time we've seen candidates in majority districts who have never seen anything before the election results were announced. Direct deals with electoral management, direct falsification of voting results, bribery and bribery -- these are the only technologies that the authorities are working on for the future today. The authorities cannot control their immorality. Having driven the nation into poverty, unemployment, and hunger, the authorities are now buying the votes and souls of our citizens from a 10-20 bracelet. We must immediately put an end to this and urgently vote on the law on elections to Parliament on a purely proportional basis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn all of you today of the fascination of power. Regardless of the external rigidity with which decisions are made, regardless of the quality of the trends mentioned above and the stated power of authority, it is today weak, frightened, and paralyzed. And even these totalitarian ways that we've been talking about before are nothing more than camouflage of our own powerlessness by power. In her unprecedented immorality, the authorities lost their chance of salvation. Strong and sequential steps of power on the path to totalitarianism are nothing more than chaotic convulsions of the doomed. Today, calling this authority strong and stable is the same thing as seeing elements of sports exercises in a terminally ill carrion. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, for several weeks now, Parliament has been brutally transformed into a typical addition to the Presidential Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u19	Turn off the microphone. Please, National Deputy Nikolaynko. Prepare the Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u20	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The faction authorized me to make that statement. On Saturday, December 7, Ukraine’s political life was enriched by a further act of lawlessness, in which our president spoke as the main hero. Other characters understood the butaphoric content of the action itself, could not hide the magnificent decorations of the palace of Marien, nor were serious speeches given, nor was the mentoring tone of empty - handed instructions given by the guarantor. Recent developments have repeatedly convinced the President of his allegations of political reform, the socio-economic situation of Ukraine and the concern for its citizens. The assurances of parliamentary-presidential form of government, European standards of democracy, and so on, are the camouflage of the true intentions of supporters of criminal dictatorship. The signing of a non-constitutional document between a raped majority and a government does not provide for the shared responsibility of two branches of government or the reconciliation of its work, but in fact, there has never been a conflict between Parliament and the government, but there have been conflicts that have been artificially cultivated by the Bank. And the search for extremes in the negative consequences of government, the probability of which is undeniable. I want to say that the government and parliament will be extremely extreme. This does not call into question even in some members of the Cabinet of Ministers, since its formation has nothing to do with the principle of coalitionism, the results of parliamentary elections, or the need for a team of thinkers. Another simulation of the power of power is shown to a nation that does not care about anyone who does not need royal ceremonies, for people are engaged in poverty, unemployment, and hopelessness. Only less than half of the subsidies in cash have been allocated to the acquisition of compressed gas and solid fuel by the public, without any legal basis, under the silent agreement of the Public Prosecutor's Office in many regions, the submission of electricity and gas to the population, on residential tracts of such cities as Kharkiv, Doneck, Herson, others, no water, no heating, there are examples of people freezing as it did in Lutsk. As a result of the reformed adventures of bankruptcy, virtually the entire agro-industrial complex has been brought about, most people are not born. The Socialist faction claims that the anticonstitutional process of taking power by clan structures continues in Ukraine. Efforts to change the head of the National Bank’s government are particularly dangerous. The questionable goals are also pursued by the intention of taking over the leadership of all the structures of Parliament, which will ultimately lead to the division of the legislative body, which seems to be what the initiators of the coup are seeking. Our faction proposes to introduce the title "honorable traitor" to those deputies who will go from one faction to another at least twice. We insist on real steps by the President and Parliament to change the system of power. Today, this is the only prerequisite for a global political crisis. All attempts to silence the crisis, to put pressure on the opposition will only lead to nowhere. We continue to fight within the action "Rise, Ukraine!".. Let us unite in the fight against the scourge that continues to plague the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u21	The national deputy of Gladys. Get ready, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The price of the question that I would like to draw your attention to is about 30,000 specific lives. That is how many of our compatriots today need urgent heart surgery. In Ukraine, there is a beautifully recognized school of cardiosurgery worldwide. The most complex heart operations for many years have been successfully carried out by specialists at the Kiev Institute for Heart-Concerning Surgery, known in the people as the Amosova Institute. With adequate funding, the Centre's doctors could carry out some 5,000 operations per year. But because of the poverty budget, there are only 3.5 thousand, and those because of targeted financial assistance to patients who provide various sponsors. With regard to public funding for cardiosurgery, this year the Institute has actually received from the budget for the acquisition of prosthetics, cardiostimulators and only 250,000 bracelets from the 495, i.e., the State has funded the minimum cost of only 20 operations. In the light of this provision, nine and 10 persons who are shown the operation are in fact doomed. Our people's salaries and pensions often prevent them from paying for tickets to Kiev, not to mention operating expenses. Recently, I received a letter from teacher Tamara Ivanovna Baeva of the village of Verbouk of the Balakleev region of Kharkiv region. Her 29-year-old son Yuri, a math teacher, was seriously ill. Only prosthetic aortic valves can save it. For this operation at the Amosova Institute, 16,000 bracelets are to be paid, no more than the amount of surgery for the patient. The native cardiosurgeons work for accumulating wages. A surgeon's salary, he's paid 40 kopecks for surgery if you pay 50 kopecks to go to the bathroom. It's the poor wages of surgeons, it's a disgrace, in principle, everything in medicine. Pay for the prosthetics, the meds. For example, the cheapest Russian artificial heart valve is worth 2,000 bracelets, the more sophisticated American - $12,000. For a single machine that acts as light during surgery, 3,000 bracelets should also be laid out. Add to this a set of necessary medicines, which on average consists of about 4,000 bracelets. That's what you have to buy a sick person, but where you take this huge amount to the people who get 200-250 bracelets at best. During the six-month period, 14 voters approached me to pay for heart surgery. For this reason, Kharkiv Regional Centre for Cardiovascular Surgery, which had received training and adequate facilities for some heart operations, had not been fully operational a few years ago, but had no facilities for a clinic and had to rent a payment to the Volokeev Regional Hospital. Minhvod's officials have spent two years lorrying into the balance sheet of the headquarters of the departmental distributor of railways, where a clinic and a base could be established. And in July, Harkovchan seized Minhvod's order to reorganize, effectively eliminate the cardiocenter. That is why I am also addressing the new Minister and Vice-Prime Minister, who is in charge, that this assistance should be provided to this cardiocenter and that a cardio centre in the city of Balakley should be opened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u23	National Deputy Yeshchenko, Communist faction. Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Anatoly Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u25	Please, Anatoly Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! Continued discussions on Government Day on the development of a state-owned recovery strategy and support for its own production and the development of highly competitive technologies are meant to say that Ukraine has made significant progress in this direction today. Tell me, where and in what land of the world during such a short period of time does a prosperous state become a beggar? Where does a country like us die and go abroad? In what country do women not want to have children, where businesses are destroyed at a rate similar to ours? Where is the land in which the nation destroys not so long ago developed agriculture? Where is science, medicine, and culture being destroyed at such rates? Where else can we find a country in which people are deprived of their future in such a short period of time? But despite these advances of power, we would like to welcome the regime of Ukraine, with yet another achievement in the development and implementation of another high technology in the elections in Melitopol's 82nd constituency, the day of victory won by Vasil Hmelnicki? The technology of victory began and was tested in the election of the President, in the election of the people's deputies on March 31st 2002, then it was tested in the elections in the Cherkas region, as formed, successfully tested during the elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the 25th and 30th constituencies. And in the end, there was a confirmation in Melitopol's electoral district of 82nd. During the re-election, what are the components of this high technology? First. Ignorance of laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. For example, in the September 22, 2002, election by the prosecutor of Simferopol, there was a criminal case under section 2 of article 57 on the facts of election violations in the elections to the Supreme Council of Crimea, which states that, in order to oppose the exercise of their right to vote in re-elections in the polling stations, social agreements on material assistance are used to discourage Republicans from voting for one of the candidates, promising to pay 50 dollars in the event of a vote. But the matter has not yet been brought to an end. Neither the CTC nor the prosecutor’s office responded, and this solved their hands, and now the same technology has certainly been worked out with great success in Melitopolska. Imagine that almost 36 percent of voters voted for someone whom no one had seen. The winner won 98 polls out of 99 open polling stations. Almost 100 percent. This is the kind of love that voters have for this candidate. Ukraine, I don't think I've seen it before. According to unverified data, about $600,000 was thrown into the county. This is where the field of activity for law enforcement agencies, tax administrations, but the electorates and business leaders, organizations, we see, enjoyed it. Because a lot of them claim that it would be good for the elections to take place every three to four months, then maybe Melitopolska will survive, and it's probably not bad for the state, because there's a process of laundering dirty money. The other one. The elections showed the whole depth of the social poverty of the people, so they sell it for a penny. I'm done. Third. Several thousand older voters were not deliberately listed, and the authorities did not respond by centrifuge. And the last. Shortly before the election, passports were removed, and usually those were people who were malnourished who could not pay for the replacement of passports. Thus, by substantiating the situation, it can be said that the authorities have high electoral bribery technology in their hands, and it can be welcomed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u27	The People's Deputy of Vernigor. Prepare Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Dear delegates to the 4th meeting of trade unions, which will take place today at their second stage, which will take place tomorrow. I would like to inform and contact delegates about what they need and the situation in which the second stage will take place. Unfortunately, in Ukraine, as you know, always for our independence, for our freedom, and for the rights of citizens, they fought, not in the snowballs, but in general, for the fleas. So it happened in the first stage, where the two clans collided and could not push, carry out theirs, and ended up all of nobody's. But so cynically and brutally, she has never raped the authority of her partners, social partners, as was the case at that stage, but it is even more brutal to prepare a second stage where four clans are already being hit. I would like the delegates who were on the road to receive instructions from their associations that tomorrow they should fight, not for a rafter, but for a log. What's the situation? In a situation where the authorities have taken away from us again because of their Presidential veto the 5 billion social guarantees that we have reached the second reading in the state budget, when the authorities have deprived us of these subsidies and subsidies today, and people in entire villages are dying out today in communally unburned premises, we are now having the second stage of the convention, where we have already received a minimum wage on the second reading, increased to 0.65 per cent of the living minimum and reduced to 165 dollars again, which is one third. So if we have a mortality rate of more than twice today, if we're one third, it's going to be three times that. I wanted delegates who took part in the first stage to prepare for the second stage, not to give in again to the governors who had come to run this convention and their delegations, and to put the work of the convention at the front of the front door, not to elect the leader of the trade unions who would be once again not a school of communism, where we had been touched for the rest of our lives, but to be the head of this school of light behavior that is now taking place with the leadership of the trade unions. So I would like the delegations who are going to our capital today to fulfill their public responsibility to those who have delegated them to the assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u29	National MP Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u30	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Please give the floor to my colleague by the faction of the People's Deputy, Mr. Eshchenk Volodymyr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u32	Dear National Deputies! Yesterday on the day of the government, I asked a question, which means the head of the committee about small cities. Such a small town is and we have in Cherkas is the city of Vatutino. And the voters of this city asked me to contact you with a statement. You are the electorate of the people to whom you have promised very much to ensure a normal life, and we have believed you. But we do not see or feel your concern for the people of Ukraine, who have entrusted you with their lives and the future of their children and grandchildren. What do we see? Life's not for the better, it's for the worse. Our children and grandchildren are not able to learn properly in schools, and not all children have the ability to learn, especially in our city, because their parents do not have the money. Low - income families do not receive funds, and children want to eat, and they need to be dressed in something. It is we who, pensioners, carry the clothes and shoes that we purchased during the years of Soviet times. The people of our city and not just ours, all of Ukraine are looking for jobs abroad, serving the rich. When? Were there Soviet times? No, it wasn't. In Soviet times they were taught free of charge, paid for their scholarship on time, and now. Our city was built in the postwar years, called the mining city. In addition to mines, there were 37 industrial enterprises, all of whom were provided with jobs and decent wages and received them on time, were given leave, travel to a sanatorium. We were confident that the Supreme Council would approve the budget only for the benefit of the people. We knew that we would have everything, both bread and bread. And now? We're sitting in the cold because there's no money in the city budget, everything's ruined, it's looted. From the briquette factory that supplied the briquettes to the entire Cherkas region, there's no room left. The TEC, which gave light and heat, was destroyed. The brick factory, of which our city was built, and not only our city, is gone, has been looted. You can't count it. An article was written: "The city is dying in the center of Ukraine." That's what it is. We've lost our patience. No, we don't want to live like this and we won't. Therefore, we hope that our common sense, as the deputies of the Supreme Council, the defenders of the people, will help our city, do not let it perish. This statement was written by the members of the congregations, "Get up, Ukraine!".. And I am addressing you, dear colleagues, let's not let such cities die in our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. With regard to your suggestions, your comments, your problems here, you'll be given the appropriate instructions, you'll be able to form them. Out of procedure, Igor Raphaelovich? Please, Yukhnowsky from the procedure. And we'll move on to the schedule of our meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u34	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Among the various universities of Ukraine, the Kyevo-Mogilian Academy is the main one. Neither the University of Kiev nor the University of Kiev can compare with the academy under objective circumstances. The Kiev-Magilian Academy is the first Ukrainian Academy. This is our story, our pride. And to make it clear, this is the history of culture and Ukraine and Russia and Belarus and Poland. She had her own budget code, and at the same level as the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka, she was the chief fund manager. Now the last government has re-funded the Kiev-Mogilian Academy from the budget code and has moved it to the same level as other universities into funding from the Ministry of Education and Science. No one thinks that the Ministry will interfere with the academy. But why do things you don't need to do? It smells like business. It is politically and ethically unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u36	As a member of the Academy's Supervisory Board, I ask and demand that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of Budgets return to the Academy of Kiev its former status in the budgetary financing of the state. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u37	I understand that you're suggesting that you return to finance government administration, as it financed before, through state administration? Is that what I'm saying? Dear colleagues, we are moving on to issues related to the schedule of meetings. You are being reviewed by the draft law "On Amendments to the Law on Collective Contracts and Agreements". It's a new edition. The reporter is the first Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ivan Fedorovich. I would like to inform you, Your Honor, that Ivan Jakovitch Sakhan was appointed the first deputy director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law on Collective Contracts and Agreements, developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the participation of employers and about. unity. He was an expert at the International Bureau of Labour, approved by the National Council of Social Partnership and supported by the Committee on Social Policy and the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm going to point out that the current Ukrainian Collective Contracts and Agreements Act was adopted nine years ago, and it played a positive role in creating the legal principles of collective bargaining and in reconciling the interests of employees and owners. However, to date most of its provisions need substantial refinements and additions, which are primarily due to changes in the state, in the economy, in the businesses of the organizations, as well as to the turbulent development of the social movement and entrepreneurship. It is enough to say that there are now 90 trade unions and trade unions in Ukraine that have all-U.S. status, a Federation and a number of other associations of Ukrainian employers. In addition, there is an urgent need to bring the rules of the law in force into line with the rules of the laws on trade unions and on the organization of the union of employers, other legislative acts on social labour relations and social partnerships that have been adopted since 1993. In view of the above, the bill is presented, in practice, in a new edition, and provides for a more perfect legal mechanism for the interaction of socio-working entities, in particular with regard to the procedure for negotiating party powers, the content of collective agreements and agreements, their terms of reference, the order of registration, and so on. In the first article of the bill, it is established that the authorities of the trade unions are the representatives of the hired workers. This position is consistent with the law on trade unions. A list of the subjects of collective contractual regulation has also been identified. It has been established that the right to collective bargaining and to contract all levels is granted to executive authorities, local self - government authorities, who manage the property of enterprises in their possession and employers and trade unions there. Taking into account existing practice, the bill specifies the scope of treaty making. In particular, it is envisaged that a general agreement, inter-branch and sectoral agreements, and territorial and territorial inter-branch agreements are made at the national level. A list of the entities representing the parties to the agreement at the appropriate levels is also provided. For example, the parties to the general agreement are designated the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the all - Ukrainian employers’ organizations and their unification and the all - Ukrainian trade unions. The bill defines a specific mechanism for the formation of a joint representative body of the parties to the negotiations. As the practice has shown, this is important in today's conditions when there are several unions operating at the level of the sector, the region or the enterprise, and they do not reach agreement on the creation of a joint representative body. Thus, the bill establishes such a standard that allows for a measure of conflict to be settled and representation in the joint body of small-scale organizations of trade unions and employers. It should also be noted that according to the constitutional norm on the equality of all the rights of trade unions, article 10 of the bill stipulates that no trade union can be denied the right to participate in collective negotiations and concluded agreements and agreements in accordance with the established order. The project contains a three-month limit for the duration of the negotiations, which will facilitate the conduct of a contract company in a tighter term than it is now. Individual changes have also been made to the content of the collective agreement and agreement. The bill contains a separate article on the registration of collective agreements on a free basis, introducing a norm for the exercise of public control over the enforcement of collective agreements and agreements. It also contains provisions on the responsibility of persons who represent the interests of employers and employees and for violating collective agreements and agreements legislation, this is article 28. The introduction of this bill does not require additional material and other expenses. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this law will, in our view, improve the regulation of social and labour relations on the basis of social partnership and ensure that the interests of the parties to collective negotiations are more fully reconciled at all levels. And most importantly, it will serve as social protection for the workers. Please consider and support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u39	Thank you. Please sign in. Five minutes per question. Light up on the board. Stephen Cloud, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u40	A respected reporter, as we know, in all civilized countries, the task of collective bargaining is to protect against the will of employers, to protect those who sell their jobs. Please tell me, why did it happen that this ideology is not seen in the Cabinet of Ministers' proposed principles? I didn't see it in the bill you proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. Answer. Indeed, if we take the Business Act in Ukraine, which was adopted in 1991, it is written in article 17 that collective agreements should be made in all enterprises that use employment between, that is, owners and employees. But international practice, world experience shows that this standard is on a voluntary basis. And the 154th International Labour Organization Convention speaks of promoting collective negotiations, but it is noted that these standards are aimed at promoting free and voluntary collective bargaining. I mean, on a contractual voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u42	National Deputy Odaynik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u43	Odajnik, Solidarity, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter! Tell me, please, you're probably like everyone else, you know that collective agreements don't work, they're made, but they're formal. Please tell me that your addition to this bill is designed to ensure that the collective agreement is not merely of a declarant nature, but of a character that really protects the worker with whom it is concluded, and to protect against the will of those who conclude a treaty with it in order to ultimately deceive this person?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u44	Thank you. Answer. Section 3 on collective agreements clearly defines the scope of collective bargaining and the content of the collective agreement. But the practice really shows that the collective agreements that have been entered into today are weak. But we think that this legislative base that's going to be adopted, it corresponds to making them stronger. But the main thing about today, I think, is that professional organizations or those who work at businesses and organizations have little influence and control over collective agreements that are concluded in enterprises. But to take it today, a collective agreement is a basic document that protects the rights of people who work in a business. And we tried to write it in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u45	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u46	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Dear Ivan Fedorovich! First. I don't like this formula for "social partnership," because I think it's a masked commission for a hired employee to sit there and keep quiet and perform all the, so to speak, employers' whims. And I've got a question for you. This is where the collective comes from. But we know that trade unions today are not protecting the interests of the hired worker. People freeze today, they don't have a job. You give me an example where the unions have raised people to protest, let's say, what's cold and hungry. On the contrary, they are doing everything they can to take this process off somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u47	Valery Dmitrovich, thank you for asking. I'm going to say that we really didn't write down a standard that would make it mandatory, as they say, for us to accept these collective agreements. But this bill was discussed on agreed commissions, there were big debates, debates and debates on the social partnership board, and there was an editorial in this bill. As for what you're saying, we're really, as a party to the government, constantly at our meetings with the unions, not only do we demand what you said, but, let's say, the issue of paying off wages, other social things that in our country today are quite sharp. But I do think it's a weak organization of work by trade unions and people who represent trade unions in one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u48	National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u49	Dear Ivan Fedorovich! You just said that unfortunately or sadly, the unions don't choose the right to pay. You know very well that more than 2 billion debts are exactly debts to people who work under collective agreements. Not the budget there, not the others, but the terms of collective agreements. So how do you think not to instigate people into strikes, not to accuse the unions of the inadequacy of what responsibility the authorities and the Ministry of Labour and Wages should impose on this law so that there are no 2.5 billion debts to hired workers?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u50	Thank you. The government has to look at the businesses that it runs, because there are also companies in these businesses, I mean manufacturing enterprises where there's debt from wages. And we're really doing this right now, and we're strengthening the control of pay in general in all sectors of the economy and in private and other structures. And we bring these, we have the whole. Dozens and hundreds of tests, bringing managers to justice, and bringing them to trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u51	Thank you. Time's up, please sit down. For the report, I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Vasil Haru.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the current Collective Contracts and Agreements Act, the draft new edition that we are considering today, you already know about it, adopted and in force since 1993. During this time, much has changed in our lives, there have been significant changes in the form of ownership, the structure of public administrations, trade unions, employers, changes in legislation, trade union laws, their rights and guarantees of activity, employers'association and others. The bill aims to improve the organization of executive bodies, the integration of employers and the integration of trade unions into negotiations, collective agreements and agreements. They will become even more specific, meaningful and effective, and will strengthen monitoring of their implementation, thus contributing to better harmonization of the interests of the parties. The bill provides for a change in the terms of collective agreements and agreements, their registration, their duration, collective bargaining procedures, broadens the scope of the agreements, guarantees the protection of employees'interests, non-interference of public authorities in the negotiation process and collective agreements and agreements. The bill provides equal rights of participation in the negotiation and signature of treaties to trade unions and their associations, public authorities, employers and their associations. You know that we already have two or more trade unions in individual enterprises, so it is possible to establish a joint representative body of both trade unions and employers. The scope of collective agreements and agreements in cities and areas with local public administrations and local governments is expanding, monitoring of the implementation of collective treaty law at the level of power - State control on behalf of the central executive body dealing with social policy and labour - by trade union organizations and their associations. [[agreements]] The draft has some shortcomings and omissions, of course, that can be addressed in preparation for second reading. The parties to the social partnership, the Cabinet of Ministers, Trade Unions and Employers, support the bill, it is endorsed by the National Council of Social Partnerships and conducted an expert study by the International Labour Organization. The Chief Scientific Expert Office recommends that it be adopted on first reading. At the meeting of our committee, the bill was reviewed, specific comments were made on the articles, on individual provisions, and the Committee decided to recommend a room for adoption on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u53	Any questions, dear fellows? If you have any, please sign in. Five minutes. Light up on the board. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u54	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Vassil Georgiyovich, please tell me how your committee feels it is appropriate to renew the holidays on November 7th and 8th. This question has already been discussed twice by the Supreme Council. The decision was finally made, but it was a decision that ran counter to the thinking of the entire Ukrainian people. There's a lot of sociological research on this. I'm not going to repeat and highlight their results, and I just want to ask you one question: how do I get out of this colossal? The people for the renewal of these festival days, and the Supreme Council against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u55	Well, you probably know, and we've been reporting in this sessional room, and you've been to a meeting of our committee. The Committee, by an overwhelming majority of votes, had made a positive decision to restore the holiday. And we believe that sooner or later it will be in our State. First of all, most people, for whom 7-8 are holy days. If we are talking about the construction of a civilized State in our country, we must be civilized, first and foremost, towards one another and, more so, to the majority of our people. That's the first one. And secondly, we will never be respected if we do not respect our own past. Many examples could be cited in other countries -- in France, and so on -- where different parts of the population differed from holiday to holiday, but they came out of respect for each other, and these days, on the 7th and 8th, they played, and we know what a great event happened after that on our planet and not to honor the people who did it, and not to honor the people who want to restore this holiday today, it's simply, I think, uncivilized.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u56	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u57	Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. I ask you to pass the word to the national deputy, my faction colleague, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u58	Dear reporter, I've been on fire for several days now, so help me with this pain. What do I mean? You know, a few days ago, there was an amazing collective agreement between the captured or interned deputies who made up the majority and the Prime Minister. It's a full capitulation agreement. I am very concerned about this question: Will this majority, like this treaty, be protected, or will these people fall into some difficult situation? If you can, take it off, because it's the first time a deal like this has been signed, and it's not all clear. What mechanisms? Will this law help to protect the majority in the event of, say, misunderstandings between them? Thank you for the complete answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u59	Well, respectable colleagues, unfortunately, this is not the subject of the bill that we are talking about. I'm sorry. But what I want to tell you is that we're different about what happened. In general, based on the bill I'm reporting today, I think people should be able to negotiate. On various issues. You have to be able to make a deal, that's the first one. Second, if agreed, both parties have an obligation to comply with the contractual conditions that are written down by both parties. And thirdly, I cannot, of course, guarantee today that the agreement signed between the majority and the government will definitely be implemented because the processes that take place in the same majority are not clear. But you and I understand that the situation, our country is in a dangerous social zone. And despite our differing views, we must do everything we can to get our State out of this dangerous zone. If we think about our constituents, if we think about our union members, if we think about our union, if we think about our families, you know, maybe I'll borrow you for three seconds, I'll remind you of an illustration when two mothers in the Caucasus were arguing about the boy's belongings: one said he was my son, and the other said he was my son, and they couldn't come to the same conclusion. Come to the wise man. The wise man says that it is very easy to decide: to put the boy, on the one hand, one mother, one woman, on the other hand. And he says, "Take the boy's hand and pull each other." My mom's got to work on her instincts, more power, she's going to pull through more force, she's going to pull through. They started pulling, the kid started crying, he was in pain. One of the women cried and dumped the boy because the boy was in pain. The wise man took this boy and led him to the woman who, well, didn't hurt her. Ota was the mother of this child. That is why we have just the situation that we must do everything we can to make sure that our people are not seriously hurt. And the contract is like this: you can sign it and do nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u60	Vassil Georgiyovich, this is not about the law that we are discussing. Stepan Ilkovich, please. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u61	Cloud, Yulia Tymoshenko block, The Motherland Party. Dear co-reporter, please tell us why this law does not put forward an item that should be the subject of collective security agreements and also of working conditions. This bill on working conditions does not add up to the second decade. You know, and you don't have to prove it because you're from that region where hundreds of miners die every year and die, first of all, because of a gross violation of employers' safety and irresponsibility. Why did you go around this issue in this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleague, the point is that what you said was not the subject of this bill. The Collective Contracts Act, agreements are a framework law. The collective treaties themselves include both the practice of today and yesterday, and the practice of yesterday, not only activities, but, by the way, at any normal enterprise, security activities are an annex to a specific collective treaty. Thus, the content of a specific collective treaty is that of working conditions and safety. That's the first one. And the second. You and I have recently passed the Labour Protection Act. I don't know, President, I think I signed it. It thus provides for measures and funding for those activities that are being developed at each enterprise and are an annex to the collective agreement. And you and I have reviewed the funding, the funding for a particular enterprise, to address the issues of working conditions and safety. This bill should not provide for specific rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u63	Okay. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, next to Leschenko. Melniczuk. Please, Melniczuk's microphone while Carmazin goes to the rostrum. Turn on Melniczuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u65	Yuri Anatolyevich, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u66	Dear colleague, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I'm Hennady Andryovich. We don't have to tell the parables here, because today we're left out of the attention of this law, which we're discussing, the bill, the villagers remain. We need to get this topic up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u67	Okay. That's what you'll say in the discussion. Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u68	No, another question. It's also from the procedure. Another question. I don't understand where the honourable deputies of Stoyan, Hara, will be if they represent employers today, and tomorrow they should sign contracts on the part of those who want to have a job.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u69	Okay. That's what you're gonna ask them. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national deputies, the law that we are discussing on collective agreements and agreements is very serious for the life of the whole state and, of course, for each of us. Because what we even work under today depends on our employers. Today, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin is my employer, although our employer has a nation. For six months, I went to the head of the apparatus, and I said, "I can't get my feet out, I just have to knock out a board." Thanks to the deputy head of Zinchenko's Supreme Council, who approached the workplace, he went down and saw that the plank really needed to be knocked out, and it was done. This would probably never have been done if we had followed legislation if we had a trade union and there was a free union of solidarity workers in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have to tell you that, contrary to the law, not only did the union head not make a collective agreement, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, think, please, about what the apparatus is wearing, but they released the head of the union without the permission of the trade union and without the presidency of the trade union, because I am a member of the trade union. Then maybe we'd be sitting in the wrong place. Like today, and all the osteochondros would start, or maybe the 5 million who went to repair the tiles and fences, would go to equip our jobs, maybe other funding would be determined. It's me for example to make it clear to you how serious the law we're discussing today, and how serious things are happening right under our noses right here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where the deputies are pounding, I'm not saying that they're all over the country. Thus, honourable national deputies, whether this law will benefit, or whether it should be adopted. Of course, we should accept it, since the previous one was accepted back in 1993, we need to update it. But does this work fit us in full? No, it's not. There's a lot of declarations, there's a lot of non-life formulas written here. For example, article 4. Any interference is prohibited, any interference is prohibited. That's how all the points in Article 4 begin. What kind of responsibility is foreseen? Zero of responsibility. It's not written anywhere when they're brought to trial. How would you like to introduce in Article 10 a joint representative body when you have several unions? If you have several trade unions, you have to make a deal with a number of companies. What are you doing? You cross with a hedgehog, offer to unite there, and then make a deal. Look at Article 10. Thus, there is also a need for disagreements that are in line with the Labour Code. On the first reading, this law can be passed and then worked very hard. Well, the Cloud says you can't accept him, he's also a member of the union, he's more visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u71	The word is given to Lechchenka. Next Dry One.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u72	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! It is quite clear that the bill has been introduced with a view to adapting to today’s capitalist reality. This is now called the improvement of legislation. Thus, for hired workers, this law, if put into effect, will not bring relief. What's more, they don't have a reliable protector. As once noted by a prominent destroyer of the Soviet Union, even in those days the foot - and - foot - and - foot companies were dancing. So there was also national control and public control. And now our union leaders are already making a profit with the government, and then they're still pretending to protect someone, on a stand-alone basis. Practice shows that the professional bodies at all levels, from the Federation of Trades to the district sector, always agree with the conditions of executive authorities from Kabmin to the bottom. In addition, the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is on the other side of the latter and vice versa. Thus, in most cases they are still at the level of the general inter-branch or branch contract, where they have a position that is not in the interest of hired workers. There's a way out. Either the whole community, or the legislature, force the unions to really defend the interests of their members, or create a new body, the Association of Employees. Article 4 should then be adjusted. Moreover, this project does not eliminate the inequalities of the parties in negotiating collective bargaining. The employer is the owner and the professional organization is subordinate. How do you know how to make a deal here? The presence of a neutral, let alone an arbitrator. In the village, after the forced liquidation of companies, there are in many cases no working groups or professional organizations. The owner and the employer conduct individual negotiations with the hired worker, impose their will on him: he does not agree to work, he opposes. As a party to the negotiations, it is necessary, apart from a professional organization, to associate with landowners and property owners, to regulate working relationships in the countryside. Because of the uncontrolledness of the authorities and the professions, quite a few cases, and this phenomenon is gaining a mass character when collective agreements at the level of enterprises, especially small ones, are not accepted at all or formed formally, are not discussed, employees are not aware of their rights, and no one is responsible for this. It is precisely the refinement and strengthening of responsibility that needs attention, especially with regard to the private owner. There are other comments that need to be taken into account in the drafting of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u73	Jaroslav, Suhi, please. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the first time in this room that we are considering bills aimed at improving Ukrainian labour legislation. This is the reason for this, and this is what the Ukrainian national MPs have already said in this room today: Mishur, Odynik, Vernigor, and others - due to the fact that today's legislation does not take sufficient account of the producer's interests. At a low level is the legal regulation of the organization and the wages of the work, its regulation. The organization of work does not provide incentives for improving quality, productivity. We just came with you to solve the main task of creating a comprehensive system of legislation and other legal and regulatory acts that would regulate the work in Ukraine. The general direction for further improvement of Ukraine’s labour legislation should be to liberalize the legal regulation of labour relations. Right now we're moving from strict centralised regulation of appropriate relations to contractual regulation. The role of a contract or contract, the role of collective agreements, should increase. In fact, in Europe today, countries such as France, Denmark, Switzerland, the importance of collective agreements is approaching or predominantly predominant in the role of labour legislation. This is what the national deputy of the Ukraine of the Cloud spoke of in his reply. The trend towards the convergence of legislation and collective agreements in Ukraine, as in other European countries, has revealed itself in the formation of so - called tripartite treaties with the participation of the State, the employer, and the trade unions. I don't think this is a political aspect here. The unions that we deserve, the employers that we have, the state is you and me. In Ukraine, this is the National Council for Social Partnerships, which controls the implementation of collective agreements. Because of the fact that the Cabinet Bill 1042 has a definite relevance, the colleagues have already talked about it, it improves the standards of the current Collective Contracts and Agreements Act, which was adopted in 1993, by the way. At the same time, some provisions of the bill need to be revised and harmonized with existing legislation. Well, that's especially true of the understandable "employee," the "employee," because we can see that these understandable things are better written in other legislation. And one more thing. The law should provide for compensation for the members of the working groups of consultants and experts involved in the settlement of issues in the development of collective agreements relating to Article 11 of the 13th. The committee head has already said, I want to support this proposal, the Committee on Social Policy and Work is proposing to adopt this law in the first reading, because it's a new edition, it's just not possible to leave this matter alone, and in the second or third reading, this bill certainly needs to be worked out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u75	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u76	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs. This law, which we are discussing today, is not the most important of all the laws that are passed in the Supreme Council, because it should serve as a worker's protection against the employer's will and it doesn't matter to the employer whose form of ownership -- whether it's the employer's state or whether it's the private owner. And it is the ideology of this law that should serve this very purpose. Regrettably, this has not been established in principle in the proposed bill. And for good reason, Article 4 puts the employer's interests first. I think it's not a mechanical error, it's a conscious ideology. Next. This law, if adopted, will in principle continue to discriminate against the creation of a truly independent government and employers of the social movement. Of course, the influence of both the state and the trade unions, or as we call it in the people, has been marked by the parking lot, which have always been partners of the government, not advocates of the interests of the workers. This needs to be done. It is in this law that the principle of discrimination is once again overturned in order to discriminate against free trade unions born in torture in modern Ukraine because they are obliged to create from the enterprises that are a particular, only common representative body. And the law denies participating in those unions that refuse to participate in signing a collective agreement on their own. You can't let that happen. The other one. There is no reason to believe that a collective agreement is only concluded when more than 50 percent of the workers are represented. And if there's only 20 members of the unions there. It's discrimination again. Well, the main thing here is not the right of workers to defend their interests by demonstrating a protest that is legitimized in all civilized countries as a strike. So I propose not to adopt this bill, but to re-read it in order to change the principle of the ideology of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Collective Agreements and Agreements Act, the new edition, completed, the decision will be taken on the day of the vote. A draft law on telecommunications is being announced for consideration. I invite you to report to Valery Pavlovich Desertac. If possible, briefly work on this subject. Dear colleagues, I have been repeatedly approached by national MPs, factions and groups with a insistent request not to do so at 12 o'clock. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u78	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is being reviewed by the Ukrainian Telecommunications Act, which I have developed together with the Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Lucenko. The urgency of its adoption is due primarily to a backlog of the existing legal framework from the European canons, and then to the lack of effective regulation of telecommunications activities in the context of the expansion of the private sector, the creation of the necessary market infrastructure, the competitive environment and Ukraine's entry into the world information space. Although over the past 10 years, at a generalized rate, the number of fixed connection lines has increased more than one and a half times, its rate of increase is lower than in many, even backward, countries of the world. Yes, according to Tacis, the telephony rate in Ukraine is the lowest in the world. The Ukrainian Liaison Act does not provide a legal basis for accelerating the development of the telecommunications market, nor does it contain rules on fundamental regulatory issues, such as ensuring the interaction of operators and telecommunications providers. And with various success in Ukraine, there are more than a thousand. Avoiding discrimination by dominant operators, creating conditions for guaranteed universal services, distribution and ensuring effective use of limited numbers and radio frequencies. Many of the rules in force are outdated and do not correspond to basic legislation, especially in matters of market liberalisation. Thus, Ukraine’s telecommunications sector, which, by the way, is of great interest to many entrepreneurs and investors, will not be able to develop harmoniously unless there is a regulatory relationship between the State, business subjects, consumers of telecommunications services, manufacturers, and providers of telecommunications. It is known that attempts to develop and adopt the telecommunications law have been taking place over the last three years. The Supreme Council of the past has considered, rejected, and rejected, three versions of the bill. This year, there were two billings on telecommunications, the national deputy Lucenka and mine. Taking into account the importance of the bill, the special interest of participants in the telecommunications market, on November 13, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Construction, Transport and Communications organized a round table with the participation of Ukraine’s national deputies, operators, telecommunications providers, and international and national social organizations — just over 150 representatives. At the round table, a compromise decision was made: On the basis of two laws, to draft one, based on the bill of the People's Deputies of Desertwater, which was done. At the same time, a whole range of offers came in a variety of ways, including through the first internet forum we launched from individual telecommunications operators and various associations, a network of operators for telecommunications providers. This bill is supported by the Parliament's Committee of Profiles and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Scientific and Experimental Authority. Dear colleagues, when drafting the bill, we laid the groundwork for the following principles. First. Independent regulation of telecommunications market subjects by the National Telecommunications Regulatory Commission, NCRT, the executive authority with special status. State administration in the field of telecommunications authorized by the central authority of the executive branch in the field of telecommunications. Distribution of powers between regulators and administrations in the field of telecommunications There is no duplication of functions by these bodies and a clear definition of their responsibilities and responsibilities. Promoting competition in the field of telecommunications Increasing the volume of telecommunications services and creating new jobs. Ensure that all persons have access to universal telecommunication services. Promoting domestic telecommunications manufacturers Promoting increased international cooperation between Ukraine in the field of telecommunications, openness, non-discrimination of regulation in the field of Ukrainian telecommunications and compliance with European legislation. The Central Executive Authority in the area of telecommunications is given the functions of implementing sectoral policy, developing a strategy for the development of the state and achieving the competitiveness of Ukraine in the field of telecommunications, developing forecasts for telecommunications networks and services, and managing the state share of the assets of enterprises that are part of its administration. The regulatory authority is given such powers as licensing operators, telecommunications providers, setting of border tariffs on universal telecommunications services, regulatory arrangements for the interaction of operators, telecommunications providers, interconnection of networks, quality of services control, regulation of a numbered radio frequency resource. The law allows for a solution to the problem of creating just, non-discriminatory conditions for all without excluding operators and providers who operate or intend to operate in the telecommunications market. An important sign of the bill is the independence of NCRTs from market participants and executive authorities for transparency and its activities. The latter is achieved, inter alia, by bringing to the interested parties the agenda of the NCRT meetings, ensuring free access to the agenda, publishing the official bulletin of the Commission, its decisions and regulatory documents, information on the terms of the tenders and licensing. In addition, in order to maximize the reconciliation of the interests of the State and the telecommunications market, the bill provides for the establishment of an advisory body of the Telecommunication Council, which will include representatives of a number of central executives, telecommunications operators, and telecommunications manufacturers. The composition of the telecommunication board will be endorsed by a joint order from the central executive body in the field of communication and NCRT. One of the most important blocks of the bill is the features of licensing. The project provides a fairly simple way out of the market for all who want to do business in the field of telecommunications. The law contains mechanisms for creating open non-discriminatory conditions for obtaining licences necessary for individual types of entrepreneurial activity in the telecommunications market. In addition, their numbers are shrinking. For the benefit of telecommunications operators, the requirement is to issue all the licences applied by the operator in one place and at the same time, according to the formulation of one of the EU directives. Thus, the applicant, who is registered as an entity of the enterprise, will be sufficient to send to the NCRT a message of the established sample and will be registered for 15 days as the owner of the general permit to carry out activities in the field of telecommunications. And to provide telephone service or use radio frequency resources, you will have to obtain a license. At the same time, such activities as services, Internet access, data transfer, e - mail, and others can be done on the basis of common permits. The bill provides tools for solving a social problem that is of considerable importance to our country. The provision of access to socially meaningful universal telephone services, telegraph, and telephony, includes guarantees for the provision of such services throughout the country, including in rural, mountain and hard to access areas at affordable prices. Taking into account the high demand for telephone installation, especially in rural areas, in mountain and remote areas, the uneven density of Ukraine’s various regions, such as the Volin region of 100 families, there are 31 telephones in Odessy - 46. And such examples can be continued. The bill provides for the granting of special rights licenses, for the building of telecommunications networks on extended terms, as well as for licenses for special duties, for the relying of monopolistic operators to provide universal services to the AOs. It's all right. The project also foresees solutions to the interaction of communication networks and fair regulation of operators’ access to existing telecommunications networks. The first set of rules for users’ rights, rights, responsibilities and responsibilities of operators, telecommunications providers, and telecommunications users. Service delivery is universal, for example. In addition, the project provides for a system for managing Ukraine's radio frequency, regulation of Ukraine's radio frequency, including the use of radio frequency, and in line with the outlook of the approved Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the process -- 30 seconds -- the drafting process takes into account the existing state of the telecommunications market. Well, legislative acts of the European Union, the International Union for Electricity and the analogous laws of countries where the telecommunications market has developed as much as possible have been involved in the work on the bill. Well, I want to thank you for your attention to all those who participated and supported this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Questions. Please sign up. Five minutes. On the board, please. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u80	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Valery Pavlovich, it seems to us that we have discussed this bill in the faction in advance, and we believe that a change in influence, such as the management of our contacts, will have a positive impact on the relationship situation. But I have a question for you. I realize that this is a new situation for you, but we cannot understand the miracles that are happening today in our relationship. Prices are on the rise, UMC virtually free of charge, government stocks have been handed over to the Russians, and the budget has no funds. For example, similar to U’tel, today the same "Kyivstar" frequency is sold for a penny and there is nothing in the budget. Say, please, this law will allow us to do something about this connection, or is it going to be this "dereban" that is happening now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u81	I thank you for asking. From the very beginning, I want to say that the committee in the privatization system, which has passed the UMC, has no bearing whatsoever. The conversations that are going on today are in the media, but I want to say, we need to work not after the privatization process has gone on, but before that. Thus, it is this law that provides for a clear delimitation of public functions and regulatory functions that should take place in our state, including the strengthening of control by both the government and the Supreme Council over the Committee of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u82	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear reporter, Volodymyr Pavlovich! I've carefully read three laws because there was one, two, and then they've both come together, but I can't understand what the name will be for the person who will lead the National Telecommunications Regulatory Commission, which is appointed by the President of Ukraine from the membership of the NCRT according to your project? Is that appropriate? Did it fall into the distribution of the quotas that are now there, or did it not? You understand the irony of this question, because I see specific names behind this project, for example. How can you make this impossible? And should we have everything appointed by the President's decree?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u84	I'm as humorous as you asked, so I'll answer. I was told that by the time this law was passed, it would be after the next presidential election. So let's not share what we don't have. I would like to invite you to take an active part in the adoption of this law, it is important today, and it will correct the state of affairs in the field, the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers. And it's this law that's meant to develop telecommunications in our country. I didn't expect this project or these draft legislative acts that were discussed on the round table and then the comments were made through the Internet system, including the Supreme Council Secretariat. It was a surprise for me. Those who work in the telecommunications market. And there are precisely differences between the State Committee and those operators who work in the communications market. Regrettably, the State Committee did not take part in the discussion of the bill either at committee meetings or at a round table. So I understand that I have a position in this regard and it confirms that in adopting legislative acts they have the right or the wish that the developers are not ministries, departments or other organizations, or the Ministry of Finance, that is, the Ministry of Justice or another body introduced by the Supreme Council, then they would look at it differently. So I ask you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u85	The Turmanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u86	I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Homutinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u87	Please, Makinka. And the Homutinian? Please, National Deputy Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u88	Valeri Pavlović, I understand from your statement that the bill contains a part that restricts the dictates of monopolies. To this day, the Shrimp dictates those conditions that he considers necessary, perhaps alone. And imposes them on other operators. How does your bill provide for the elimination of this discrimination on the part of the Skrutelecom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u89	I thank you for asking. From the very beginning, I said that the monopoly today for all services is Statecommunity. That is why it is possible to distinguish between the powers of the State Liaison Committee, which is today, and the commission, which is called Encarite. We have an example of the Ministry of Energy, there's a commission on tariffs that works at the Ministry of Energy, they work normally. This is exactly what's going to be set aside completely by the "Smallman" monopoly that is today, and it will allow all operators working in the telecommunications market to have free access to networks that are in the "Smallman" market. And they need to be developed accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u90	Yes, thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u91	Thank you, too. In addition, we gave you all the tablets. This is the law on telecommunications, where everything is clearly defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u92	With the Yuri Solomatin procedure, please. Valerius Pavlovich, another insistently demanded, our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u93	Thank you. Valery Pavlovich, you said a lot of different words -- operator, provider, radio frequency, but something I didn't feel very much like a consumer. Question: Was it presented at the round table that you mentioned, the consumer, and how? That's the first question. Second, does the law provide for the creation of real ones in the interests of the consumer of conditions to ensure the optimum ratio of price and quality of communication? Because prices are absolutely insane. It seems that the presence of many operators is not a prerequisite for competitive relations and price cuts, but a prerequisite for a plausible corporate protection of the interests of communications and robbery operators and such a lawless end-user. Please, your opinion on this, how does your law protect the user of this relationship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u94	I thank you so much for asking. In my speech, I've said briefly that we didn't ask exactly two questions: first of all, the demand and protection of the consumer, and secondly, the development of the telecommunications system. So I can thank all the members of the Supreme Council for supporting the committee's proposal that we have made a decision with you on the incoming calls is a decision that is made. And the second question is that there's a second tariff. Pay the consumer today. It is in this law that these two positions are taken into account. And you asked a very good question. What I'm trying to say is that some of us have been speaking out here strongly against the introduction of this, and Russian television on RT is already coming up with an ad that's long ago entered a second-hand tariff. And we expect that we don't need the law. On the contrary, only legislative acts should be accepted and followed by the deadline for its implementation. Therefore, the State’s protection of consumer rights has been put first so that they can turn to it. To appeal to court cases, including the provision of normal services. Above all, the loss of unkind and unwarranted provision of these services. We can go to court, and the state has the right to defend it here. I mean, the consumer rights used in this law are very good. And that tablet I told you about, look, it's all clearly written there. For a national MP, anyone can answer any kind of question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u95	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, for my report, I request a member of the Committee on Construction, Transportation, and Connection, Bogdan Ivanovich Kostinyuk, to attend the rostrum. Bogdan Ivanovich, immediately talking about the dry leftover. Sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! On November 27, this year, the Committee on Construction, Transport and Communications reviewed a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Telecommunications, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Desert Tenk and Lucenk. I consider it appropriate to remind the people's deputies, to review draft laws on telecommunications of different authors, and to review the various issues on a number of occasions by a professional committee. And the Supreme Council's consideration of these bills has more than two years of history, which began on October 24, 2000, when Kabmin first brought it up for consideration by the Supreme Council. The last time - January 17, 2001 - there were two drafts in our Hall: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and groups of national deputies. But because of the lack of votes, because of the MPs, then the decision was not made. [[It was already the end of the session, and the deputies were doing a little bit of other work.]] It should be said that the bill submitted by a group of national deputies received a positive assessment from two international institutions, including the Ukrainian-European consultative centre of the Tacis programme and the German government's advisory project on privatization in Ukraine. It was on the basis of these two bills that the following bills were prepared. In October - November of this year, two bills on telecommunications, national deputies of the Ukraine of Lucenka and Desertwater were introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council. And given the need for such a law and the need to harmonize its standards with all telecommunications subjects, the profile committee organized and held public hearings on November 13 in the form of a round table of both bills. The round table almost unanimously noted the relevance and even taking into account the history of previous bills, the need for a single harmonized bill. A joint bill on telecommunications, which the Committee on Construction, Transport, and Communications had discussed on November 27, should be given to the authors who had accepted this recommendation and had been replaced for some time. The bill brought together the best in both previous versions. The detailed content of the bill has been brought to you by its author, so I will only briefly remind you that the purpose of the bill is to bring about a legal basis that regulates today's activities in the field of telecommunications services in accordance with the economic conditions that have arisen in the market for these services and to adapt it to European Union legislation. It is also important that this bill considers that regulation of telecommunications should be carried out by a separate body that is not subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers. This body should adhere to the State’s policies, but it must have independence and regulation of the system of telecommunications as a whole. The National Liaison Commission is to become such a body according to the bill. Having an independent legal personality and being independent of operators, this commission can create a system in a state that is transparent and independent, allowing for trust by both investors and the general public. In the drafting of the bill, the authors took into account the experience gained in the years of application of the Law on Communications, as well as the international experience of regulating telecommunications. The law authorizes the State to regulate telecommunications activities as well as the rights and responsibilities and responsibilities of telecommunications market entities. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. After discussing the bill, the committee agreed with the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office and asked you to support its proposal for the adoption of your proposal to the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, is there a question? Then please sign in. Let's take a look at the board. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u98	Thank you. My question is, it touches on the same issue of consumer rights. Please tell me, what and how is this law done to make prices go down when they improve the quality of communication? Can this be done in the legislative order at all? Because those prices that are, they're nice for the middle class, even for the regular consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u99	So let's try to answer this law. What Does the Consumer Need? The consumer needs the very fact that the phone is installed, the consumer needs quality, and the consumer needs tariffs to be within reasonable limits. Today, the reporter said that today in Ukraine the number of televisions per capita is one of the smallest in Europe, including twenty - two, as I know, numbers per hundred people. This is about 2 to 2.5 times below the European standard. Today, about 10 million numbers have been installed throughout Ukraine. At the time, when it comes to mobile communication, in a very short time, the information is that 3.5 million numbers are available. What does that mean? That's where the money goes, that's where the development goes. It is the 72nd article of this law that provides for a number of such advantages that are aimed at building new lines of communication. And this is about rural areas, mountains, hard-to-reach areas, because these are the areas where our citizens are the least protected, and they need this protection and this regulation right on the side of the state, because it's a function of the state. Because it is not profitable in those areas of communication or even harmful. And these operators, who are now engaged in other forms of communication, they won't go to the damage, that's the state's function.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u100	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u101	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! I'd like to ask you a question about article 73 if you've analyzed it on the committees. This is the provision of telecommunications services in a state of emergency and a special period. In particular, it says here that such special periods, I think at a time like this we are now living in Ukraine, at least de jure it's not announced, but it's actually already installed. Here, in order to meet the needs of national security, defence, law enforcement, operators are subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Do you not think that such things should be removed from the law simply at the conceptual stage of the first reading and not voted for because this leads to more serious consequences? What's a special period? There's no law that says "special period."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u102	Questions, please. Turn off the microphone. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u103	I'm going to try so hard to answer briefly that we don't have an emergency situation in Ukraine and it's being introduced by a separate document, and that's exactly what this is about when a state of emergency is being introduced in accordance with valid legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u104	National Deputy Terrence, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. You'll be performing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u105	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Bogdan Ivanovich, you actually answered a question that I wanted to ask Valery Pavlovich about whether an international expertise was conducted and you said that when it came to these two institutions, and that's also an argument in favour of what the law really needs to be supported. But I have a question of this kind. This law foresees, in fact, mechanisms for Ukraine’s entry into the world’s body. Well, information space, let's say. I mean, you could make a little bit more specific about at least a few strokes that these mechanisms are. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u106	I've already partially stopped answering that question. Just one way is by creating this law by the NCRT - National Liaison Commission. The introduction of a similar council, for example, in the field of energy, has already produced positive results. And it's the creation of this commission that won't be subordinated to Kabmin that's going to cause both investor confidence and the general public, because if there are transparent licensing schemes, licenses, it only creates trust. It was the authors who tried to pursue this very goal by making their minds known in this very bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u107	Thank you, Bogdan Ivanovich, time is up. Dear colleagues, we still have a lot of paperwork to consider. Let's move on to the discussion. The committee's scheduled 15 minutes, so we'll stick to this time. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine, please. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! Indeed, such a law, right Valery Pavlovich, is necessary. I sincerely thank him and the national deputy Lucenko for rejecting ambitions and for uniting efforts to pass the bill. This bill conforms to the requirements of the European Union, although we are not yet members of the European Union, but sets out a special procedure for granting permits for entrepreneurial activities in the field of telecommunications. But I won't talk about the positives, I'll talk about my comments. I think that the article that leads to the destruction of its own producer and the lobbyist article is article 34 in this law, think about part three: "the necessary to fulfil the conditions of the license to special rights or special obligations of the means, equipment, assembly and other, other than taxable goods that are not produced in Ukraine or produced, but do not meet the international standards imported into Ukraine, are exempt from the payment of the import duty and the value added tax." It's okay, isn't it? This will never happen in Ukraine to produce what meets international standards. That's what the interested European Union will always say, so this is a good law offered by Deserthovetenko and Lucenko, but these are good guys, so you should have a medal. Guys, we need to lobby our own national interests, we need to make them here. We need to learn from the Chinese in this regard. Next. I also find it frankly lobbyistic to consider article 72 of this bill, which provides that the taxation of operators in the provision of universal middle-hair services, whose cost is higher than the tariffs imposed on these services by NCRTs, is in order to place 50 percent of the tax on the added value of universal telecommunications services and 50 percent of the income tax received from these services at the disposal of the taxpayer. It should be noted that the law is not a law on taxation, that is, it cannot contain such standards. In addition, the adoption of these standards will result in lower revenues to the state budget and the dependence on such revenues, not even on the laws adopted by the Supreme Council, but on the decisions of the NCRT, which will set tariffs for universal services. Next. The bill states that the functions of state administration in the field of telecommunications are separate from the function of regulating relations in this area, they are placed on the TCW, on the NCRE, which is the executive authority, where the leader is appointed president. There's absolutely no need for that. And there's also a government inspection.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u109	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u110	I'm done. . telecommunication and frequency of Ukraine. In general, I believe that the first reading can be adopted, but it can be cleaned out of all the lobbying that is in this law. And Lobby's here since the tenths of the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u111	Thank you. 31 seconds. Please, Mikola Tomenko. The next national MP, Crnwall, will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u112	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, this is a case where I've always criticized the individual articles of good draft laws, this is a case where I haven't found a single article that I can't criticize. I'd like to say a few words in general. I think if we don't open the curtain around this bill of discussion, we won't understand the logic of this bill. Today, a) there are several systemic conflicts between the State Liaison Committee and the Crucifixion Committee. So there is a connection and a conflict between the National Council on Television and Radio and the State Liaison Committee. What does this law offer? Well, I'm not saying that he's proposing to cancel three articles of the Constitution, because it clearly describes how we work in the information field. So he's proposing today to create the most powerful wealth, and here I agree with Karmazin, who said that we need to include the head of the National Telecommunications Regulatory Commission in the distribution. According to this structure, all licenses for telephony, television, radio, all licenses are issued only by this structure. I wonder, does anyone have an economic justification for how many people will work on this committee? Who will finance the budget? How much will it cost the State to create such a National Commission as it is? This commission defines credits, benefits, grants land benefits, it defines a closed special restricted access to use of radio and licensing. I actually think we have a unique situation. What's the consumer here? I didn't find the consumer here in principle. The consumer of the people's MPs was concerned when they passed three bills that the President had not yet signed, on the second payment that Vladimir Bondarenko and Bespali had proposed to us by constitutional majority, we had adopted, respectively, counters on the telephones and so on. So far, these laws have not been signed. So it's a bill, well, I don't think it's necessary, let's say, to accept it on the first reading or to work on it, because the result of the bill, so we can understand, is the dissolution of the National Council on Television and Radio. It's not necessary, all the television and radio licenses are issued by this national commission. Then it is obvious that the presidents of the television company should understand that their licenses are likely to fail because the new commission will issue them. Then everyone needs to understand that we are now in a period where, for example, the BSC can listen to all communication operators in the form of monitoring. And in general, if you look at it, it's clearly stated in article 2 that the telecommunications that we have, not for the people, are for the purposes of meeting the needs of public authorities, defenses, security and the protection of the rule of law. I am convinced that the bill should be sent for further work, attached to the drafting of the bill by the Committee on Health, Industrial Policy, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, and passed a bill not for the Security Service or lobbyist structures but for the consumer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u113	Thank you. Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I may not be so categorical, even though I also see a great deal of problems in this law, and they are in it for me. Well, I also want to start with the question: if we want to solve the problem in telecommunication space and take care of consumers, why haven't we signed those three laws that were going to come into force regardless of this law and really help the consumer? Those introduced by Bondarenko and Boris Bespaly. They were supposed to be signed long ago, apparently someone is making a very strong resistance. And because of that, I have this fear that if this adopted law were to happen, just the good positive norms in it could be cooled off after that, and at some point they would just stop working. What is positive and what must be done, and what is good is there in this law. This is the fulfilment of the requirements of the European directives for the establishment of an independent regulatory body, the National Telecommunications Regulation Commission, and it is formed by the Supreme Council. This is a positive thing, although I immediately have doubts, fears, because this habit in Ukraine -- everything to be approved by the President -- can undermine this norm, completely destroy it. It is good that this law improves the situation. In fact, the European approach to restricting licensed activities in telecommunications is also introduced, such as simple internet access, database transfer and so on, where no registration special services are required. That's good. And, among other things, it's good that universal services are declared. The fact that in Ukraine with our social problems and the provision of telecommunications in Ukraine is in a terrible situation. Now, as far as negatives are concerned, they're very important. And in this law, and in other laws, and all that the Supreme Council does, unfortunately, always comes up with one thing: we put in constant tax benefits of a manifestly lobbyist nature, without even presupposing normal adjustments to such things as the Budget Code, which provides that no tax benefits should be imposed after a certain period of time, or we should apply the introduction of the law for another year. As for me, it is the wrongness of forming a universal service development fund that allows for the introduction of these benefits and reductions, respectively, to be budgeted, not on the Supreme Council and the legislative regulation of the Supreme Council, but on this commission. These are the negatives that I think we need to remove, but unfortunately they're one of the central ones in this law. Well, what I find unacceptable is that there is an additional concept of special situations to the existing state of emergency and that there is a possibility of providing operators and confidential information. It's a violation of human rights. I think that the law will probably go through the first reading regardless of our position. If I did, I would ask very much from the committee itself, and my colleagues would be very serious about the second reading. If we threw these lobbying moments out of there, the law would be normal. But unfortunately, there's just an incredible amount of lobbyism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u115	Andrew Schlell. Julia Timoshenko's faction. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, I, of course, am also cautioned, as is the case with most, of all regulatory laws. This law regulates and creates, creates new concepts, creates a new commission that will again regulate radio frequencies the next time. But I'll start with the main one. It is unacceptable, then, that a project on the obligation of all forms of ownership operators to provide the National Commission for the regulation of the communication of information relating to their activities, including confidential ones. This is said in article 7, article 15 of this project. You know the concept in private. First, it violates the Information Act, but that's another matter. What confidentiality is in this situation. It's either way you can get the information that one provider doesn't want to provide. This is a violation of his rights. Of course, I understand the foundations, the underwater stones that led the legislators to do this: the extraordinary and the profits of certain communications operators, such as GSM service providers, especially Kiev Star and UMC, but that's where the other problems, i.e. you can listen, you can explore, you can study, you can study all the services that people are providing us with. I mean, on the phone, you can know what this is all about, but in the name of some other higher purpose, that is, to learn whether it was stolen here or not, or whether it was overstated by service providers. With the same success, you can read the history of the diseases that doctors make to determine whether they were wrong and then later publish them in the press and say, you see, in fact, the person is sick, and they write about them healthy or otherwise. This is ridiculous and ridiculous. Of course you do. Here I'm not talking about these two articles of 72th and 34th, which are not just openly lobbyist or semi-lobby, or those that conflict with the letter at all and the spirit of non-lobbing and the inadmissibility of increasing the rating of imported goods here in Ukraine. It breaks the whole line, I'm not saying, it's easier to count that it doesn't break both of these laws, and these two articles in particular. On the other hand, the functions of the Ukrainian National Center of Frequent Oversight have not been defined. And that's why, in fact, he should be credited with any possible or impossible powers. And in Ukraine, in this country, where even those powers that are not prescribed are often used, such things cannot be allowed. That's the first one. The second and the last. Of course you can. I'm sure he'll be accepted in the first reading, but these things need to be removed immediately. We have no right to allow such laws to pass through our parliament. We have no right to allow those norms that violate everyone's earlier acceptance, and they actually make it impossible for the President to adopt and sign the normal acts and legislative projects that we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u117	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear friends! I'm adhering to the comments that have been made, but I want to focus and continue the thoughts that the rapporteurs have expressed. In fact, we should always be concerned about the consumer. We told him everything he needed, but he didn't say the main thing. The consumer needs to have pay and pay. Then it won't be a problem. And we need to look at every law, and what does it give, this law, in order to have a salary? Thus, today’s law gives little or nothing but loss. That's why I want to make sure that we're so careful that this law also gives jobs, gives high wages, that it will help regenerate our production in the right industries. Is there a basis for this? It's like, literally, a continuation of yesterday's Government High Technology Day. I won't repeat myself. I want to say that the largest technical university in Europe has a whole institute called telecommunications. This institution works with many institutions in the world, and our scientific development acknowledges and we need it to be used. So I suggest that we make appropriate changes and additions to this law, so that there is no such ambiguity, I suggest in several articles, particularly in article 10, when it comes to providing scientific research organizations, we have to write "national research institutions and organizations." Next. In article 13, where it comes to authority, you have to write them out in such a way that there's a phrase that says "implementation of state policy." And so on, which should be oriented towards its own production of telecommunications. And in other chapters, I propose to do the same thing, to do the accent, but most importantly, when the language goes into article 29 I want to add, our economists sitting in the room know that investments can't be cut off from innovation, so the title of the article can even make a special chapter "investment and innovation." [[It's called "Determining the Directions of Investment."]] And what's more, here, when it comes to taxation, here are the benefits for foreign ingredients. That's why I'm proposing this part where we're going to remove the benefits to foreign elements and we're going to remove the benefits from domestic elements and we're going to add another article on "Determining the direction of innovation" through the creation of technology, financial groups and the integration of our education, science and production. Thank you for your attention. Then it can be accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! Time is running out of procedural questions. Assadchev. And then Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u120	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you were the only one who met with the government on the budget yesterday. You remember, I raised questions about laws that destroy the tax system. This is one such example. I don't question the professional side of this law, it's systemic enough, it can be declared. But I would very much ask that article 27, paragraph 3, be deleted, because whether the state makes the budget money or not, let's define it in the budget. Article 34 excludes entirely because it introduces a new separate accounting account, it introduces a composite premium, at import duty, at the value added tax. Article 58: Exclusion in the part of the state budget, the creation of a special fund. Let's put that in budget legislation, let it determine what and where to involve. And finally, the same scary article is article 72, which provides very large benefits and taxes on added value to operators, income tax, and so on. Without these four articles, I believe that it could be voted on in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u121	Thank you. National MP Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u122	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm here to fully support my colleague Assadchev, and I've been on this bill on the Committee of Budgets. I point out that he has been registered, and today he is being considered in the Supreme Council. He didn't pass the committee, this law, for example, finance and banking, there's no expert opinion, the Ministry of Finance, how it affects the budget, there's no economic accounting. And so these articles, which were cited, 34, 72, really affect the budget. And it's like that. We may need to avoid allowing any kind of aid law at all. If we can provide benefits and benefits, they should only provide tax laws, then they will be controlled for the MPs. Or we accept one, and then the benefits in certain laws are passed and it is uncontrollable. It would be good for us to put such practices into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u123	Thank you. Valerius Pavlovich Desert Tenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u124	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, we are very grateful for discussing this draft legislative act. We'll either take the transcripts, we'll take all your suggestions, the working group will work them out, and I'd like you to adopt this law tomorrow on the first reading. Well, I'll do one "but" or one trailer. I said at the very beginning, we're alone, we're standing in the world's telecommunications market in the last place. If we don't create special conditions for the development of this sector, we're not just going to be in the last, we're going to be in the last place. So I'm referring to the proposals that the budget said, first of all, there's no law, and it's not going to be included in the 2003 budget, and until 2004, we have to live. That's the first one. The other one. Remember when our country became independent and we created a system of support, financial support as a tax administration, and especially foreign troops and a customs committee. We've done 30 percent of the calculation, we've decided on the development of these sectors. So I'd like to support these proposals tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, consideration of the matter has been completed, determination of the decision will be made on the day of the vote. But I would ask that the Committee of Budgets make sure that it makes its own decisions regarding financial laws so that we can make balanced decisions. I am introducing to your consideration a draft law amending articles 71, 73 of the Labour Code on the order of employment of workers on holiday days. I'm drawing your attention, my dear colleagues, that we're now moving on to a reduced procedure. We need to look at six more documents for a break. Please, from the government of Soldatenko Mikola Alexiyovich, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Just a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed that Ukraine amend articles 71 and 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. The amendments to article 71 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, which regulates the working order on weekends, provide for the editing of paragraphs 1 and 2 of part two of this article, which defines the types of work and cases where work is allowed on weekends, in accordance with the terminology of article 2 of the MOU Convention, which Ukraine ratified. Convention number 29. In particular, what is the reason why the new edition is expanded and refined by such exceptional events? If, in the old edition, these exceptional cases are spread to ward off public or natural disasters, industrial accidents, and to eliminate their effects, there may be exceptional cases in which epidemics or episodes can be eliminated or prevented. And that's how it collapses according to the Mow Convention. With regard to the second part of this article, there are exceptional cases that spread because these works should be directed in addition to preventing the loss or destruction of property, and in cases where certain moments threaten or threaten people’s lives or living conditions. These are the changes to article 71. With regard to the changes to part four of article 73, the order provided for in article 71, which I have just reported, is simply spreading here in the event of participation in the work on holiday days. I would like to report that this law, prepared together with the union association and the union of employers, has undergone an appropriate expertise in the scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council, which supports this bill. The Social Policy and Work Committee reviewed the draft law at its meeting and also supported it. People's deputies, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u127	Thank you, sit down, please. Vasil Georgiyovich, do you have any further information on this? Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Works, Hara Vasil Georgievic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the ILO Convention referred to by Nikolai Aleksevic, which was adopted in 1930, was ratified by our country. There is little notion of forced and compulsory work. Article 71 provides additional clarification as an exceptional case of weekend use of this work. And in 73 articles of work on holidays and non-working days, an addition that is used for work on holidays and weekends, and in 71 articles of the Labour Code. It simply streamlines and aligns it with the requirement of international norms, and our committee has considered and proposes to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u129	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. We're not asking any more questions right now. In the process of pros and cons, you may say, dear colleagues. Yes, Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatoliyovich, but I think you could get out of place faster. Prepare Michael Melniczuk. Carmagine, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! As we approach Europe now, we have ratified the International Labour Organization convention, in fact, work is allowed on weekends, except for those that were, also preventing accidents and eliminating the consequences of epidemics, episodes. In addition, work is allowed, it is envisaged, on holidays, to perform work in the cases and in the order set out in article 71 of the Labour Code. So I'd like to tell you that these days the government is planning on what's going to be a lot, and that's the negative of this bill. The negative is that the order of the minister of finance reduces spending by the end of this year, that is, without you people's deputies, a secester has been conducted, and measures to eliminate the consequences of emergencies have been reduced by 10.5 million and the fight against them. Epizootic action for 20 million dollars. I mean, we're being prepared for the fact that if it's not funded, please work on the holidays to make it happen. Does this law fit or not to eliminate this situation? In fact, this means that with the adoption of the project during the dawn days, work will be allowed both to prevent the elimination of the consequences of a natural disaster or the manufacturer of accidents that are difficult to deny and to perform urgent, unforeseeable work, which is immediately dependent on the normal work of enterprises, institutions and organizations as a whole or their individual departments. However, the final formulation may include an entirely loving list of jobs. And it should be noted that according to its status, holiday days, especially religious holidays, differ significantly from weekends, have much more meaning in human life. In this regard, I have great doubts about the need for such changes to the people of Ukraine today. Thank you for your attention. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I give you time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u131	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Get ready for Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u132	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. What's necessary is I agree with the bill, and the paper on article 71 on work on holidays and non-working days. Of course, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will be decided by vote tomorrow. But I'm worried about something else. This is paragraph 2 of this article, which reads when employers are to engage on holidays and nonworking days. I have doubts about such a treatise as "to prevent accidents," "to destroy or corrupt property." This enables the employer to get involved when it comes to working, so to speak. But there's another thing that's not settled today, or not fully regulated by law, is that in Ukraine today, the new employer, they own enterprises, they're the people who enforce the law only for them. Today, we well know that there are 12 - 14 workers in Ukraine, and there are 24 - hour businesses in Kiev. How is it protected by law, and how does the law deal with it? Not at all. Or no one can protect this person because if he needs protection, he will be shown at the door tomorrow. Do we not realize that there is a child’s work in Ukraine? Our children are exploited like adults, and they do adult work. And no one sees it in all of Ukraine. Where are we looking, honourable parliamentarians? Where does the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection look at this? Where our district administrations, the areas that are getting the money for this job, would seem to be monitoring it. I believe that in the near future, the relevant committee of profile with the Ministry needs to review the codes of labour laws and amend these laws accordingly. On the other hand, I would like us to understand today that we have a brand new class of employers, these Ukrainian capitalists, whose law is only a dollar, and the people are just, let's say, something else that's not within their reach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u133	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. I get it, there were two "against" already, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u134	Dear head, dear colleagues. Of course, the law aims to harmonize our Ukrainian legislation with the International Labour Organization Convention, and that is very good. Especially after the events of September 11th in the United States, after the events in Russia, we all need to be alert and understand that the global danger in every country and Ukraine should be recast to some extent in Ukrainian legislation. So there's no objection to making changes to paragraphs 1 and 2 to Article 71 of KZOT. Yet, Ukrainian practice tells us that quite often we want to be more Catholic than the pope himself. What is proposed by the government, and with what does the committee agree? First of all, I'd like to say that I didn't exactly say correctly that the scientific and expert board of the Supreme Council agrees, because the science and expertise department only mentioned 71 articles. In the 73rd article, the drafters practically want to ruin the significance of state holidays, in general, holidays in Ukraine. That is, compare weekends and holidays. What will this lead to? This would lead to, let's say, a new owner of an atheist enterprise could put in our holidays -- Christmas Cross, Easter, in the Trinity to work people not only to eliminate natural disasters or other things, but to do immediate cargo unloading work with the aim of eliminating the simple movemental composition. It's not such a simple question, because there may be owners who don't accept other holidays - 1, 2 May, or owners-foreigners who don't recognize the Constitution or Independence Day of Ukraine and will require our Ukrainian citizens to work on our national holidays, taking these amendments into account. So I think politically, this is a big negative and we can't accept this bill in that way. So the proposal of the NDP faction is to accept the need for changes to article 71 and never to accept changes to article 73 concerning holidays or non-working days. And if we're specific, we can only agree to paragraphs one and two that are proposed by the drafters. In addition, we have to pay attention to the continuous non-compliance with article 107 of the Labour Code, which refers to paying people who work on weekends and holidays, usually in budgetary institutions, especially in medical groups. And that's why we're also proposing that amendments be made to this bill at the same time to another bill concerning article 134 of the Labour Code, which refers to the material responsibility of the head of the enterprise of various forms of ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u135	Thank you. Question completed. Accordingly and on Thursday, we will be determined to take into account your offer. Nikolainka, from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u136	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Nikolainka, a socialist faction. I actually said that to Mikhail Vasilovich, our previous speaker, and he expressed it. That's what I'm talking about today with Soldier Mikola Alexiyovich about what he said today and a colleague of ours about what we need to pay attention to today's private owner, who doesn't fully comply with the Labour Codes. Come to Kiev. Half the girls who spend 24 hours in stores get 10 bucks, have 60 hours a day, 80 hours a week, and have no vacation, nothing. And besides, some of them still don't have contracts, they just get money out of their pockets. If this person dies or gets sick, or else it's a disaster. And there's no pension, no social accounting. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u137	There is a draft law amending article 14 of the Consumer Rights Act on the relationship between sellers and consumers. Reporter: Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, Schoolnik Leonid Semenovich. Leonid Semenovich, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u138	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending article 14 of the Consumer Rights Act stipulates that when consumers acquire technically complex goods, their replacement requirements for the like brand are to be satisfied if significant shortcomings are identified. This change is due to the fact that the vague definition in article 14 of the Act in force concerning the amendment of complex technical goods when consumers are detected. In the course of the safeguards procedure, these products give rise to the flow of consumer complaints to public authorities regarding consumer rights. The problem is that the shortcomings that are easily eliminated cause a burden on decisions and unwarranted spending, time, and cost. They also provide a basis for the court’s handling of cases in exchange for the manufacturer or seller of inadequate technical goods for quality. The preamble to the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act defines that a significant disadvantage is a disadvantage that makes it impossible or unacceptable to use goods, jobs and services, in accordance with its purpose and cannot be eliminated, or that it takes a great deal of work and time to eliminate them. Either he makes the product different than the contract provides or appears again after it has been removed. The draft law provides that the list of complex technical goods is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The list of groups of technically complex domestic goods approved by the Cabinet of Ministers is made up of 14 groups of goods. The requirements of the proposed draft law will be distributed only on a limited list of technically complex goods. In the case of falsification of technically complex goods, no restrictions on consumer rights are provided by law. Making changes to the law will allow for greater clarity in replacing goods with defective products in the trading network for both consumers and business entities. The adoption of the proposed law will contribute to the improvement of Ukrainian legislation on consumer rights and to a certain extent solves a number of problems caused by non-regulatory relations in the market of technically complex goods. The implementation of this law does not require additional material and other expenses. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u139	And thank you. Have a seat, please. Vassil Grigorovich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, this is one of the few bills the Cabinet of Ministers is introducing in order to do better for our buyer. The bottom line is that today, if a buyer buys, as the draft text says, a technically complex product, let's say a car, today he can't replace it, if there's a significant flaw in this car, motorcycle and other sophisticated equipment. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to take sides with the consumer and, if the consumer has acquired a technically complex product with significant deficiencies, he is entitled to demand that it be replaced with a new one, the same brand, the same modification of the goods. Therefore, our committee has considered the bill and proposes that it be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u142	What? The user has the right to replace. A user, i.e. a buyer. That's right. I'm saying it's a rule that will change not only the boots of the broken but also the technically complicated goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the point is, if we buy a domestic car, if it's this car, and it's not going to go as we do, then we're going to demand a replacement for the next one, and it's going to be technically faulty. Let's go, ladies and gentlemen. Yuri Carmazin. Now Yuri Anatolyevich will explain everything, we'll understand everything now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u144	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. The draft law provides for the addition of a part of the first article 14 of the Consumer Rights Act by a new paragraph, which states that "the technically complex consumer requirements set out in paragraphs "b" and "g" of this article satisfy their significant shortcomings. The list of technically complex goods is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers," the end of the quote. Now, my understanding of this problem. In the case of the adoption of the project, consumers of technically complex goods, or the same cars that you mentioned, will not be able to contact the seller or manufacturer to replace the goods with the same or the same product of another brand when they detect defects or falsify the goods. It should be noted that this will lead to a substantial narrowing of the content and scope of existing consumer rights. Thus, the position of the project is contrary to the requirements of article 22 of the Constitution, which prevents the content and scope of existing rights from being narrowed when new laws are adopted or amended. The Ukrainian Consumer Protection Act does not yet define goods for which guarantee terms must be established. It is thought that it is essential to set certain deadlines for all household appliances, electrical engineering, electronics, and automobiles in order to prejudge the potential for household and road injuries. There would be clear guidelines as to the need for a certain guarantee term. Special attention should be given to setting a guaranteed term on a domestic manufacturer's car or so-called domestic manufacturer's car, so let me put it this way, because that assembly that's going on, that's not it. Therefore, we consider it inappropriate to impose restrictions on the enjoyment of consumer rights when it comes to significant shortcomings in technically complex product groups, as this is a violation of generally recognized international consumer rights. So I'm proposing a quote that says that when it comes to technicalally complex goods and cars, the consumer's requirements are met when they're found to be significant disadvantages. The list of technically complex ones is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In an editorial that the government has proposed today, this law will not work for every Ukrainian citizen. I think it's making things worse. We have no right on the basis of the Constitution. On the contrary, we must do something to protect people. So I was surprised that the committee didn't see any underwater movements in this law. And underwater currents in such a tiny bill exist and need to be seen.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u145	Thank you. People's Deputy Cranwall. Please, Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I have been somewhat offended and outraged by the representative of the committee. Excuse me, or the committee, when considering the law, did not look at the essence of the very basic law to which a change was proposed, or the committee head for some reason simply decided to deceive us. Today, technically complex products, goods can be made under the law in force, I'm not talking about de facto, but de jure can be exchanged, you can do all the right things with them without these legal restrictions. There is a limit that specifically provides for a standard that is very difficult to understand. And what was represented here by the State Committee, I think this is an inadequate thing, because to confirm such significant damage to the benefit of the consumer is virtually never going to work. It will always be created against the consumer. I think it's just a substitute for certain concepts. I realize that in most parts of the world, there is a normal practice when an enterprise makes necessary repairs at its expense. And that's why there's no need for these points "v" and "g" as a rule. But the legislation of all countries of the world does not deprive the consumer of the right to seek either through the courts or directly through appropriate appeals, direct recourse to the replacement of goods that have certain inadequacies or, more importantly, they are falsified. By the way, from the proposals of this law that have been introduced, it's not isolated here that the falsified ones don't apply. So it seems to me that this is a certain lobbyism to harm, hinder consumers in their rights to exchange, which, as mentioned in the previous statement, violates article 22 of the Constitution and creates obstacles for them. Among other things, in the case of these criteria, the very definition of significant damage, first, depends on who, in the law, they are not clearly defined. And secondly, the list of technical complex goods is confirmed by the Kabmin, and the path is open to corruption. I don't think this law should be adopted. The current norm of today's law completely covers this situation and provides the necessary social rights of the consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u147	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine We have a broad understanding of consumer rights in this bill, and certainly colleagues who spoke, both Carmazin and Chernobyl, have made a proposal to support this bill. But surely this bill needs some clarification. I particularly don't understand when it comes to adopting amendments to the article of the relevant law of the 14th, there is support for Parliament, but when the list prepares it, the goods, the complex goods, the committee deals with it, and Parliament leaves the matter out of the question. So we're not taking part, or at least a profile committee, in order to have some impact on the decision-making of the Cabinet of Ministers. Of course, there are also claims to the State Committee for Standardization, Metrology, and Certification. I'd like to put it this way. What is evident, of course, is that today’s consumer is not protected. Because they're talking about complicated goods, and the point is that you go shopping in any store, and they're complicated or they're not complicated, they tell you that the product is not to be returned, and no one is to be returned. You'll be warned in the morning. And so, please tell me, if some product is being realized, where is the one who buys, where does he find the truth? In principle, whoever's buying these goods isn't protected today. That's why I'm making this proposal. Of course, this bill is to be supported, but still, the profile committee has a broader view of protecting consumer rights in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u149	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please. We had two against, one against, now Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I'm in, even against it. We don't have consumer rights in Ukraine. Indeed, there is a law, we have adopted it, but virtually, like many laws, it is a paper law, not provided with real, practical, specific mechanisms for implementing this law. And there are a lot of consumer complaints, and we're all consumers with you, by the way. And I think that Parliament is in debt to consumers to solve this problem. The bill is palliative, it doesn't solve the whole set of problems. There is an attempt to solve one particular, partial problem in how to realize the consumer's right to exchange technically complex goods with significant disadvantages. This is the subject of the bill. Well, it's like we need to support it, but at the same time there are, in fact, certain doubts and there are painful points to the bill, at least there are three of them. First. It's a major flaw. Who will determine the underlying flaw? I think that's what the consumer defines. If the consumer has determined that this is a significant disadvantage, he has the right to exchange. There should be no problem at all, for this is not practical. And so the essential, this epithet is completely inappropriate. These are shortcomings, where there are shortcomings, and the consumer has the right to exchange. Another pain point. The right to exchange details separately or to exchange all goods. It's about the right to exchange details. What are the details? And maybe the right to exchange the whole product if the detail of the product depends very much on the quality of the car, for example. Let them change cars. And that's what they do in the West, if a defect is detected in a car, they change not the details, but the car changes. And the third point of pain in terms of technically complex goods. The list is made up of Kabmin. What's the list, we don't know. Is the engineering going to be there? And we need to make sure that the technology is built, too. The Supreme Council has already said this, by the way, has no impact on this process. And that's what the Supreme Council's control function is, by the way. We're taking laws, and then Kabin's making some decisions on this issue, not in agreement with us, not even with the profile committee on these issues in particular. It is therefore necessary to ask the question of Parliament's control function in the process of acting on this law. Thank you. Still, I think we can do it in the first reading and make adjustments to the second if we take a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll make a decision when we vote. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities for the acquisition of a commercial patent for the implementation of the country’s production notes. Reporter of Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and Euro-Integration Vladimir Alexiyovich Stecenko. Literally, two words of justification. The committee suggests that the matter be considered for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting Certain Business Activities. The essence of the bill is to include the country’s trade volumes in a list of goods that are allowed to be traded through the acquisition of a premium trade patent. Such a supplement would allow for a substantial expansion of the business network in the implementation of the books of the domestic producer to students and students, first of all, by virtue of those entities of entrepreneurial activity that have already received a business patent in accordance with current legislation, as well as by opening up additional points of sale in schools and other educational institutions. This, in turn, will allow more implementation in the domestic market of domestic production volumes, from 60 percent to 80 percent, to increase the capacity in Ukraine from 25 percent to 33 percent. It will increase domestic volume by 30 percent and accordingly reduce the price by 17 percent. The direct consumer of notebooks - students and students will be able to buy five copies below for a 12 - sheet notebook. The extra revenue is going to be about 1 million dollars. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u153	Volodymyr Kirilovich, do you have any comments from the committee? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u154	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to supplement the list of domestic products that are allowed to trade through the purchase of a premium trade patent such as sewing. Here's what's really going on here is the content of the bill. What is the point of adopting such a bill? Its purpose is to create a conducive environment for the implementation of home-made production packages for students and students in educational institutions. I mean, the idea is that the bill is designed to support a domestic producer, to increase the volume of self-produced bills, and therefore perhaps to reduce imports, to lower prices, and to increase budget revenues. These are the main benefits. I would add a lower value to the patent itself, because it becomes an asset. An indemnity trading patent, its price is only 25 dollars for the entire period of use. And now in Kiev, for example, in district centers from 60 to 320 dollars. The Committee on Economic Policy, Property and Investment considered a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending article 3 of the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activities for the acquisition of a trade patent for the implementation of the country's production codes and invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a basis in the first reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u155	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready to cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Too bad there's no Prime Minister, there's not even a Deputy Prime Minister, there's a committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u157	We'll give them your wishes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u158	That would be you. I just want them to understand what we're doing, what we're doing. We have to add one paragraph out of one word -- write it down -- and we're taking time to do that, and we're talking about it and so on. Instead of taking a systematic approach to this issue, systematizing all the changes required by this law to others and not wasting time here by our national deputies. I want to talk to the Chief of the Supreme Council for over a month, and I even wrote a written statement. But he doesn't have time, because abroad, visiting, that's all. Well, I'll be speaking from this rostrum then and saying that it may not continue this way, that such projects can continue to be carried on, it's just, I don't know, a disgrace for the entire Supreme Council. Of course, no one today will be against the country's notebooks, although there is a question, there is a General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, called GAAT. And if Ukraine refers to public taxes and congregations and benefits even in the acquisition of a commercial patent, we are said to be enemies of that agreement. I'm saying that, although we're going to be patriots of our own state. I'm here to adopt this bill. But people are good! Let us systematize them, codify them, and make changes and adopt such laws as is necessary, not take up time with the Supreme Council on completely petty, secondary issues. Was that not clear on Monday at the Conciliation Council? Doesn't anyone want to read? Then read it! For one word we're spending and breaking spears here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u159	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u160	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This is going to be one of those rare cases where Yuri Anatolyovich and I had to agree. I'm speaking here as a representative of the European Integration Committee, and I want to say from the outset that we understood your mandate when you created such a committee, to exercise some control over those bills that could be a barrier to Ukraine's entry into the WTO or that could create additional problems along the lines of adapting our legislation to European legal norms. In fact, what is it? I understand, of course, the noble objectives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, although I cannot understand at all how the Ministry of Economics and European Integration can present such a bill completely, well, with a clear conscience. Then at least the name of the Ministry should be changed. I'll be in fact now. The proposed introduction of tax benefits on domestic goods, in this case it's all about noting, contradicts the provisions of article 3 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which is what is commonly called GAAT. This article of this General Agreement reads: "National regime for internal taxation and regulation." Now, according to article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Tax System, the fee for a commercial patent refers to public taxes and congregations, i.e. the patent is subject to Article 3 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. So here's the conclusion. If the project is accepted, we will brake our entry, our walking along the line of Ukraine's entry into the WTO. I would also like to draw your attention, distinguished national MPs, although I may not want to talk about it, the general agreement on tariffs and trade is the basic agreement of the World Trade Organization. So in the event of approval of this project, of course, we won't be able to become a member of the WTO, or at the final stage of Ukraine's entry into the WTO, we're going to have to cancel this law. So I'm simply forced as a representative of the Committee on European Integration to draw your attention to this situation and urge you to reject this essentially popular bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u161	Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u162	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. At first glance, the question is, really, something that there is nothing to talk about. I don't think so. As we have dealt with the issue of the education of the nation today, and the fact that today not every average family can buy it is also, if you will excuse me, access to education. I think even if we protect our own notebooks and books and textbooks, I think that GAT, WTO and all the trading organizations will forgive us, because one notebook will be fine. But what I wanted here was to express my doubts and turn to the Hungarian Igor Ivanovich. First of all, Igor Ivanovich, the first question I have is to you. If we cut the license, the patent, more loyally, by the 20th and so on, which guarantees that tomorrow will be cheaper, as you wrote in the explanatory note? None. The second question. If we want to support a domestic producer, and I want to do it, then let's bring in the imported customs abroad to be sewn up. Yeah, and then right now we're going to have the price and ours are going to be able to make notes. Question three. And there's one more thing I wanted to say today. Let's take a close look at the school notebooks, students. What do they show? I'm going to show you today a lot of dozens of cases where the notebooks show different horrors, different ones there, excuse me, pictures that affect the soul of our children, morally disintegrate them. And next, the chemical composition of these notebooks! Children get their fingers licked, their skins peeled because they write on these notebooks. So I think we really need to adopt this bill in the first reading and answer these questions. If we're native, let's put the imported customs in parallel and control. How do we control today so that the price goes down? I'm here to make sure they're as old as they used to be so that the kids can take it and write it boldly. Otherwise, if we don't make all these demands, we're just going to do this law once again to some lobbyist structures, and we're going to be able to make money on our notebooks, because no one's going to cancel the price. And they're just going to take the changes you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u163	Yes, please, Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u164	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, it is certainly not about hanging up. We have reason to believe that we should care for our children. Then the question is, why just hang up? Let's do the crayon tax for the crayons, for the pens, for the party, for the boards, for the teachers' computers. It will be quite humane and quite right, and Mr. Nikolainko will be pleased. And it's not just the kids. But, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that yesterday there was a report that a country like Armenia had already become a member of the World Trade Organization. This law, which has been reported by a representative of the Department of European Integration, makes it almost difficult for ourselves to make a more strategic decision than the issue of notebooks. How can this ministry, how can the new minister, Mr. Horoshkovsky, who is a well-known Euro-Integrator, possibly not yet care that his representative in Parliament is presenting this bill, do everything possible to complicate Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization? So let's distinguish what's strategic, what's temporary, what's the main thing, what's secondary? We are all children, but there are other forms of concern for our children. So as a representative of the Committee on European Integration, I absolutely agree with Roman Zvaric, and I don't think this bill should even be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I just got off the phone with the head of the Apparatus. He said to prepare such a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers to review all the bills that have been tabled, to their properness, to comply fully with the standards that have been discussed today. Because we're taking it today, and then we're going to take the difference, we're going to have a lively discussion and we're going to spend time. From the Michael Pavlovsky procedure, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko. Then Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u166	Very short. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention. We set up a European Union Integration Committee on our own, and now some of the deputies forget about Ukraine. They're part of the faction "Our Ukraine", "For Ukraine's One." And if we follow this pattern, we will lose Ukraine at all. Therefore, we must go to the European Union without losing our nationality. To do this, national interests must be upheld in all laws. When I made a proposal in one of the laws taking into account national interests, they threw me out and looked at me as an enemy of Ukraine because I wanted to stand up for national interests. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's think about our nation in an integrated way and then the world. Because if we die, why do we need the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u167	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I am not the lawyer and apologist of this bill. I reported the opinion of the committee on this subject. But at the same time, I can't help it. I understand Carmazin about the need to enact laws systematically. It's all right. But there may be some pressing question that needs to be answered. It's the question of how to write, about textbooks, about school equipment in general, that's an extremely topical question. And that's the answer to that question. Now, as far as it's concerned, it's going to keep us from joining the SATs. It's not a tax bill, it's a tax patent to ensure that those who want to do it have access to the production and sale of notebooks. Nothing more. So it's a huge exaggeration because there's a huge amount of tax benefits there, and so on. Now it's about getting into the SATs. First of all, it'll take us a long time to nose the earth while we're there. And we still have some time. And secondly, I'm convinced that this is not going to be an obstacle to our entry into the WTO. I'm just one example, I'm done. All the countries of the world advocate national interests. Recently Bush, U.S. President, the most liberal country in the world has imposed import bans on goods, on other goods, constantly doing so, and Ukraine is afraid that someone will not accept them all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u169	Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u170	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Here, a colleague who failed through the Committee said that we had set up a committee on our heads on issues of European integration. I would like to tell all the audience and our audience that the Committee on European Integration was created by the Supreme Council on a healthy head. If there are other heads, it's really not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion. A draft Law amending certain legislation on combating illegal interference with communications networks is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Deputy Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine, Andry Volodymyrovich Omelchenko Andrew Volodymyrovich, please. How long do you need? Three minutes is enough. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u172	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Your attention is drawn to the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on combating illegal interference with electricity networks, which was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers on May 17, this year. The bill has been drafted to implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the decision of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council of October 31, 2001 on measures to improve national information policy and provide information security for Ukraine. The need for criminal responsibility for the illegal interference of electricity networks is due to a steady increase in the number of accidents in the area of electrical communications networks and disruption of telephone call routes. Infringements in the regulation of the use of electrical communications networks or the intervention of communications equipment result in distortions or destruction of information transmitted by networks, as well as information that characterizes the operation of networks and electrical means of communication. Such actions cause significant damage to electricity operators, such as network owners, and threaten the stability and safety of the network and the quality of electricity. The bill proposes to supplement section 16 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code with article 363-1, “Illicit interference in the operation of electricity networks”. In this connection, however, insert the title of the chapter in the following edition: “Crime in the use of electronic computing machines, computers, systems, and computer networks and electricity networks. ” The authority to investigate this category of cases is proposed to place internal affairs on the investigating bodies by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. It should be noted that the bill was recommended before it was adopted in the first reading by the Committee on Construction, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Legal Policy and the Committee on Legislative Security, Law Protection Activities, which made separate observations and suggestions. In addition, this bill is aligned with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Supreme Court of Ukraine with the proposals that have been taken into account. Dear National Deputies! In view of the high social dangers of the above - mentioned offences, with a view to maintaining integrity and directing electricity networks, please support the bill in its first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u173	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. From the Committee of Crook Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Construction, Transport, and Communications considered the bill. We have unanimously decided to endorse it and to adopt on first reading a recommendation to the Supreme Council. There is a positive feedback from the Scientific and Expert Division of Management, there are feedbacks from those spoken of today by the Deputy Head of the Committee to link and express the view that today, because there is a very serious interference, as we say, in the electricity supply of the underprivileged, if that is the case with the electric shockers of State good, there are cases where tens of thousands of bracelets are lost as a result of these violations. The Committee therefore requests the Supreme Council to adopt it on first reading and accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u175	Thank you, Yuri Borisovich. Have a seat, please. Boris Bespali is recorded for the performance. You don't? Okay. Puzakov, the Communist faction, please. Get ready for Carmazine. At this time, Karmazin was not the first to register.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u176	Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The proposed bill is relevant, as it provides for the provision of a system of electrical communications established by legislation and provides for criminal responsibility for unsanctioned deliberate interference in the operation of electricity networks. We all know that for miles today, radio and electrical wires, telephone cables, electrical communications, are being cut out and stolen, and agile parts are heating up. Trade in stolen electricity has grown in size. Today we need to close all private reception facilities, which will provide some guarantee of the preservation of the electricity network in Ukraine's law, and we also need to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code so that criminal responsibility is borne not only by the perpetrator of the stolen product, but also by the employee of the reception post as the custodian of the stolen item. The proposed bill must certainly protect the interests of the State and its citizens. At the same time, the bill requires greater responsibility and responsibility for electricity and electricity to consumers for failure to perform or improper service in order to protect people from the illegal interference of the listed enterprises. For example, in case of delays in payment for services without warning to the subscriber, electricity is cut off, and money is then taken from the subscriber, which exceeds the monthly pension of the pensioner. Telephones are also switched off, and when the phone is connected to the account, the electrical operator forces the subscriber to collect money as a service that is not provided by the Communications Act. Power companies set excessively high tariff prices. For example, in the city of Kirovograd, you have to pay 600 dollars and 200 dollars for shares, whether you want to share or not. At the same time, electricity companies do not pay 25 percent of the daily subsistence allowance for each period of expiry of the control periods for the removal of telephone and radio transmission damage, usually the subscriber’s salary over the entire period of damage to the subscriber’s subscriber is accounted for and properly paid. This attitude toward its consumers is contrary to the Communications Act adopted by the Supreme Council in May 1995. The bill should provide for a higher responsibility for the use of means of communication. Ukraine’s liaison authorities, I think, need to coordinate more closely the involvement of the special oversight bodies created at appropriate, final, ministries and, through them, to draw on the administrative responsibility of officials guilty of violating the rules and instructions developed in accordance with the liaison legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u177	The word is Carmazin, the next is Melniczuk. I'm sorry, Bespalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The Criminal Code and the amendment to the Criminal Code is a very serious thing, it's a system document, and you and I have adopted it here for three years. And now the presiding national deputy Vasiliev was making changes to the preceding article, which made a possible fight against this phenomenon. In my opinion, the nature of this law is quite different. It's because here I have a specific turnout from the mines. On the night of December 2nd to 3rd, "the theft of aluminum wire from 3rd to 6th base was completed with a total length of 900 meters, as well as 15 isolates on the LEP-35 line." Following the call from the News Mine to the law enforcement authorities, 750 metres of aluminum wire were stolen. The next call was stolen 2,000 feet [2,000 m]. And yet here's the whole package. You know, the other thing is that the internal affairs authorities and the prosecutors don't control these issues, they don't find the guilty and they don't enforce the law that they are. This is the need to resolve these points, which are already partially settled. I remind you that article 361 of the Criminal Code provides for criminal responsibility for illegal interference with automated electronic computing machines, their systems, or computer networks. Therefore, if systems responsible for transmission of radiation or reception of signals, signals, written text, conductive, optical or other systems are to be controlled by electronic computing machines, systems, computer networks and illegal service, it is necessary to qualify under article 361. Article 363 prim. contains a terminology that is now being proposed that is not used in current legislation and is not understood because it is not consistent with the terminology used in electricity law. This is especially true of such concepts as information routing, information blocking, and a number of others. So we had to take the essence of what Yuri Borisovich Krock proposed today and change the text of the current 360th Criminal Code of Ukraine. But this was to be done by the committee of Yuri Borisovich of the Committee on Law Enforcement, a fundamental committee to which changes to the Criminal Code refer. That's why I think this bill has to be largely completed with the involvement of the professional committee, and we have to do so in the future. And I'm paying attention to our leadership, the government's representatives here in the Supreme Council, the President's representatives in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that in mining areas these thefts are due to the impunity of what's going on, not that it's not settled somewhere in some project. And they go, of course, and from hunger, because there is no wage. That's absolutely right. Thank you for your attention. So you can take it this way: either take it in the first reading and work it out, or you can work it out with the approaches that I'm talking about. There are two choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u179	Thank you. There's no Boris Yakovitch. The word is given to Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u180	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners! In principle, we have to support the bill and make changes to article 363 of this law. But there are a few reasons for this. Article 363, paragraph 1 - Information lock. And so it happens, from who does it happen, is it blocking? Is this the fault of the liaison, the electricity, or is it the fault of the citizens who are fined between 200 and 400 untaxed minimums of citizens or the correctional work further along the lines of the text? Next, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would like you to tell me personally and give me an answer to the letter, and for the radio audience, on what grounds are you picking up on Ukrainian citizens of VAT for electrical services? I asked this question in the Tax Administration. They answered me, but they didn't reply in writing that these were illegal acts on your part, as well as on the side that they're stealing for electricity. I'd like to give you a written answer on this. And so I'm asking you, dear colleagues, and myself: when I call an electrician who has the right job and the wrong guy offers to me, don't say these things to me on the phone, please tell me, I have to meet him outside the city, who should I guarantee the safety of my phone calls? This is an example of life. Another example is when I call the judge in the district, and I say, how's it going? I'm taking part in an action called "Rise, Ukraine!"He tells me you've gone crazy on the phone talking to me. I'm saying, what do you mean? He doesn't mean anything, and I mean all the phones are being tapped. And where is our security, and who is punished for it? And what we're talking about is that we need the uncle who did it, sorry, in this town, this connection that the bad guys put in at 15 centimeters, not at a depth of three feet, we need to punish him. He needs to sell his cognac, that's all. And those who do not provide us with the means to communicate freely on the phone are unpunished. I think we need to anticipate that and that kind of measure in the law. In general, the bill will be decided in the hall tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on combating illegal interference with electricity networks has been completed. The decision, as our colleague said, will be made tomorrow. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the size of fines for breach of the order of account. Deputy Head of State Tax Administration Sergei Grigorovich Gurgy. Very quiet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u182	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The story of this question is as follows. In 2000, the Supreme Council passed the Law on the Use of Accountants. Considering that the individual rules of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences remain inconsistent with this law, the question is the following. The project proposes article 115 of the Codex in a new edition. Set administrative responsibility for breaching the accounting order in such a way as is provided for by the Accounting Act. I'd like to draw your attention to two moments. The new edition of article 155 of the Code divides administrative responsibility in this area into the offence and the subject of the offence. What does that mean? The offence is a breach of accounting transactions in the area of trade, food and services, and a breach of consumer accounting in foreign exchange purchases. The subject of the offence is recognized by the personnel involved in the accounting operations and by the officials of enterprises, institutions, organizations that have committed violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u183	You all have it, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u184	Now, just a minute. So the bill is in agreement with the ministries and departments, supported by the committee. And I ask your support in accepting it on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u185	Thank you. Please sit down. From the committee, member of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement, Maria Andriyovna Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u186	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The committee on law enforcement at the meeting discussed Bill 1076 on amendments to the Code of Ukraine on administrative violations of administrative penalties for breach of the order of accounting, i.e. in article 155, para., and decided to adopt the above-mentioned bill in the first reading so that it was thoroughly worked out and took into account the comments and suggestions made regarding the bill. Please support the committee's decision. The comments and proposals on the content of the project The Chief Scientific and Technical Administration did not have any additional financial costs for the adoption of the bill. It is appropriate to amend article 255, paragraph 14, and 15, of the Code on Administrative Offences, which is designed to deprive officials of internal affairs and consumer rights protection and the State's price control of the right to file administrative records. This will help to reduce the number of subjects who have the right to make up administrative procedures under Article 155. From three to one. It is also true that this category of cases should be dealt with by the court, and this right should be waived.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u187	Thank you, Maria Andriyovno. Have a seat, please. Yuri Carmazin, please. Yuri Anatolyovich, you can leave then. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Regrettably, this bill is also of a splintering nature, of a framework character, of a nonsystemic nature. It's suggested that we do a different version of the article 55-prim. And these are the approaches that I'm drawing your attention to that we need to reject these approaches, because today it's the end of 2002, the second era, and we're patching up all the holes and the bills that were passed back in 1984, this codex was adopted, I remind you. There's the benefit that the committee said today. I'm going to suggest that you adopt this bill in the first reading, but I would also like to address the negatives that I think are. This negative is that the officials of internal affairs bodies are deprived of the protocol for administrative offences provided for in Article 155, but this decision is essentially their half-life, as this right remains with the officials of internal affairs, as provided for in part one of the first part of article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences. And of course, a clear definition of the circle of guilty persons and their responsibilities will allow authorized authorities to apply more effectively administrative measures specifically to the guilty. You see, we've just seen that the committees that deal with issues, not the courts how this comes out of the Constitution. I am in favour of making changes to a more systematic nature in the Administrative Code that will save the work of the Supreme Council, significantly reduce the burden on the national MPs and save the paper. I call attention once again to the leadership of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council's apparatus and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to change their approach to legislative activity at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u189	Thank you. People's deputy tagnibok out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u190	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I actually didn't want to go through with the procedure. I actually wanted to ask a question to the great Sergey Grigorovich about this law. This is exactly the question that would apply, maybe it'll be rhetorical for everyone right now, but it actually applies to the problem that we're considering right now with regard to the issue that we have in the Lviv area with the tax administration. I just want to protect those poor, miserable entrepreneurs today who are suffering from the abuse of the Lviv tax that Sergey Medvedchuk is running today. And actually if you increase the fines even if it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u191	This has no bearing on the matter under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u192	It's got something to do with it. This has a direct bearing, Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's why I wanted to ask you a question. If you increase fines now, just those businesses will be completely destroyed, unfortunately too much, and so they are on their knees today. And so I'm just rhetorical, even ironically speaking to the hall, let's go to the Lviv region in connection with that habit of Lviv tax making another law or some other point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u193	I think here, if an offer is made, we'll consider it. And that's not going to do anything. National MP Marcus, please. Turn on the microphone. You can talk now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u194	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich and Honorary colleagues, regarding the remark made by the national deputy Karmazin, this observation was calculated for the committee meeting, I reported this bill. And I also asked the question that the internal affairs authorities should be limited to making protocols and the right to tax services. Such a proposal was made for the tax service to compile these protocols in order to limit the number of subjects entitled to protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Code on Administrative Violations has been reviewed. We'll make a decision when we vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2002 is being announced for consideration. [[on the repayment of debts to miners]] There were two bills, the national MP Hara took his own. That's why I'm asking for the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Svirida Mikolaiovich, please. It's very tight in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u196	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2002. In line with this article, a standard was established that in 2002 debt repayments to miners from regressive lawsuits and one - time job losses should have been made at the expense of the Social Insurance Fund’s cost of production accidents. At the same time, the budget programme for the restructuring of the coal and peat industry provided for the cost of providing the programme, i.e. the repayment of regressive payments and debt. Article 61 limits the use of the cost of a budget program for coal and peat industry restructuring and makes it impossible for coal and peat industry to pay off debt to miners who are released from mines, regressive claims, and one - time assistance in losing their jobs. For the purpose of resolving this issue, a bill was drafted and submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers. The adoption of this law will allow for the payment of regressive debt and one - time assistance for the loss of a professional capacity of 57 million dollars to workers in the coal industry who are being released and for closure. Therefore, there is a request to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u197	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Budget Committee. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ So the committees of profile -- budgetary and social policy -- supported the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u198	Thank you. National Deputy Assadchev of the United States of America. We're in the middle of a reduced procedure. Have a seat, please. Have a seat, please. I'm saying you'll have the opportunity to speak now. National Deputy Assadchev. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u199	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to thank Deputy Harry for withdrawing his bill. And in that version, according to Svirid, the committee supports this bill and asks it to vote. It was just a mistake. The budget law is unclear, but unfortunately, it has worked and has failed to pay regressive claims from the budget. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u200	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Then Matvienkov. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u201	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. I had a question: why are we asking? Well, first of all, why isn't there a finance minister today? Because perhaps he would have responded to the Ministry of Finance's order to use the service to temporarily limit the allocation of the general public budget fund, which concerns not only miners, but all citizens. The government budget is reduced by 2.2 billion. It's not a joke. We've taken over our powers, our distinguished national MPs, and that's exactly the social problems and everything, and today we're only taking one question. What caused this? I absolutely support the need to make these changes, but we need to treat all of our citizens equally, completely to everyone, and to the rural population, and to the disabled, and to the cancer patients, and to the TB patients, of whom 55 million were taken by one command. Why the Minister of Finance is hiding today. We should put him on the rostrum, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. You have made a decision here with you that the first leaders will report. And again today, we have deviated from that decision. That's the question, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and to you. Are they all sick? Then let their leaders report it. They said Donbas didn't chase the emptiness.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, wait a minute. We will now continue to work according to those who have enrolled as national deputies. Matvienkov. And then it'll be out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u203	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues, let us go back to the history of this issue by the time the regression law was passed in the Hall. We broke the spears here, we spoke here to Donchenko, Hara, then we screamed - let's take the law that we're going to solve all the problems with the regressor. At that time, we created a monster, which now requires any producer to pay enormous amounts to the regression fund, regardless of whether it has regressors or not. This created a situation in which the employer was totally disincentived from working security. All of this has been done for the same purpose, so that we can today create the conditions under which the regression payment is due. We have increased enormously on these payments today. I'll give you examples of Ilic's combination. 2 million We paid before the regression law was passed, today we pay up to 10 million. It's a similar situation with the Azostal combination. The only reason was to settle the regressors' debt. Next situation. They created conditions when everyone works on one boiler. From this one boiler, the goal was to settle the regressors ’ debt, and we set out on that path. They have read the law, and they have literally read it. Too bad there's no Hara. Honestly, I'd like to look him in the eye when he was yelling right here from the rostrum, saying that no questions asked, we're going to solve all the problems. Now it's 200 million. From the privatisation of "Silver" give it to me. Give me 70 million. from the budget. Now we're talking about the money that goes to the mine closure, put it back on. Sorry, we've created a bureaucratic, whole regression structure, we've equipped a computer schematic, and so on, and so on and so forth, technically, everything. Where's that money going? Why did we create this, I wonder? If we designed to improve the work with regressors, then let them report and say, where is this money going to date, why do we keep such a colossal machine and what kind of work has changed since the adoption of this law in the end? Let us examine why today, in agriculture, a person who works or in the light industry, without any regressor, is obliged to maintain and pay for those who are reluctant to apply to labour security and safety. Yeah, the miners, of course, have no questions, but let's end up with this money, where they went, where they went, and what they went for. Similar laws, I stress once again, and in addition, we waste money without solving the absolute problem. That is why I would, so to speak, both one and the other bills would reject the better and deal with the regression law that we have so far in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u204	Mikola. I see. Mikola Rudzkowski. Dear colleagues! Yuri Anatolyevich, don't direct me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u205	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The socialists will uphold this law, regardless of the opposition of some lobbyist groups in the Supreme Council. But we think that on the other hand, we need to put order in the entire coal sector. In fact, we have to support miners, really, we have to end up with the Ukrainian Coal Program, to increase the financing of the coal sector. But we think that on the other hand, we need to stop once and for all the cost theft in the coal sector. And there's a reason for that. I'll give you one example: 50 percent of the coal in Ukraine is made of coke, 100 percent of that coal is used to produce coke for metallurgical combinations that are privatized half because of bankruptcy, a. they have hundreds of millions of profits. They're able to pay for this coal. But coal mines receive only 30 to 40 percent of the government budget's taxes, 70 percent of the money is stolen, not to mention the non-regression and the pay on time. And so in supporting, on the one hand, the people who have lost their health, in adopting this law, we have to take appropriate measures, and I'm going here to the empty bed of government officials who are responsible for this question, which involve you. Who, if not the government of Yanukovich, can bring about an order in the coal sector? If the government isn't able to order, we'll see it in two or three months, we'll resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u206	Thank you. The Turmanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u207	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The previous colleague spoke to Matvienkov, on the one hand, he was right, but we really need to figure it out. But what I'm saying is that the fund created social insurance against unhappiness. Today, coal miners have begun to receive current regression claims payments. Yes, there are insurance rates, yes, today you metalsmiths pay a lot of money there, but today 50 percent of those who have to pay there don't pay today. That should be taken care of, too. But that's not what I'm talking about. I would like to say that the previous Supreme Council, the previous assembly, adopted the 61st article of the Budget Code, and it blocked off the regression claims and benefits on the mines that we have closed. We closed the mines, the projects included funds and budgeted for 2002, and this year's effort is to unlock the article. Since 12 July, we have spoken to the Committee on Budgets, as it is said. On 12 July, the Budget Committee adopted the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare the draft law. The draft law was prepared under pressure, I say again, they don't want to give money away. But the money is waiting for these miners. That's 18,000 345 people. Today, as people's deputies, we can't do anything else. We need to unlock this article. That's why I'm asking for your support. Here, the Budget Committee has decided and proposes to support and adopt the bill, I would ask that it be put to the vote tomorrow. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please, the year is ending. It's the pleasure of the miners who've been waiting all year. And I'd like him not to get the way he got to us today. We are very much in this room, distinguished deputies, we are talking about industry problems, we are talking about miners, and when we consider the last place, we are considering the law that is being passed today. I would ask that we consider tomorrow, that it does not require much justification and that it does not require additional financial costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u208	Eugene Kirilchuk of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u209	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I fully support the positions that today sounded like money is being stolen, what is being washed away by tens of billions on coal. That's all there is. But this law does not apply to all these facts. I think Swidda is going to ask tomorrow to adopt this law immediately in the second reading so that we can have these financial transactions by the new year. This is very important, for if we move it to a second reading, this operation will hardly succeed until the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u210	Thank you, too. Sergey Droguntz from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u211	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for bringing me up. I have an address for you. You know, at our Academy of National Sciences, you were illegally taken away, rented the hotel complex of the Institute of Physics of the National Academy of Sciences and the treatment and sanatorium complex of Feofania. In doing so, neither one nor the other as tenants pay a penny to the National Academy of Sciences. There have been 80 court hearings, 80 referees to the National Academy. There is a decision to return the Academy to these complexes. And nobody wants to do anything. That's how hands wash. For two years this issue has not been resolved. I very much ask you, Kravchenko, Attorney General, then, who is there besides the taxpayers and the city administration and so on. We have to do something. You can't just throw it away. They don't pay for using these buildings, these complexes into the budget of tens of millions of dollars. Why did I ask that question? Today we've talked about the rule of law, the strengthening of the rule of law. So that's exactly where we're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u212	Dear colleagues! Question completed. We'll make a decision tomorrow. I think, given your proposal, we're voting in general as a law. As for the last problem that was disturbed, I think if there's no objection, we're going to form this as a parliamentary request for appropriate force structures. National MP Pavlovsky, please, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I ask the secretariat to draw up an appropriate document.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u213	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I've counted, is now equal to 50 deputies, nine of them from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, head and first deputy. So I propose to make a list of these deputies and to the next Supreme Council to introduce them without an election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-11-m0.u214	I strongly support such an offer. Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 3 p.m. Parliamentary hearings will begin: "Ukrainian culture, state and prospects for development." Please be present. Tomorrow is the day of the Supreme Council decision-making.
