ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, because I'm afraid we're all running out of seats here. Please have a seat. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Enable logins. Please register. [[10:03:06]] Registered -408 A total of 408 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! The Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine, as well as the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and representatives of other authorities, including the head of the Ukrainian Supreme Court, are taking part in our session. In accordance with the Rules. From the procedure? National MP Mishur, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! National MP Mishur, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. In accordance with the Rules, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you should announce not only the number of deputies present but also those who are absent and who are absent for what reasons. I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u3	I ask the Secretariat to provide me with information about the missing and why. Thank you for this offer. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Antonyka Anatoly Mihajlovich, Shevchenka Alexander Alexanderovich. [[Applause]] Let's say hello, we want all kinds of goodies. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I ask you all to sit down because I can't see who's raising their hands. Please take your seats. National MP Kenzior, please proceed. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. I proposed yesterday, and today, on behalf of the faction of "our Ukraine," I ask, Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, to include in the vote the day-to-day question of the creation of a temporary inquiry committee of MPs to review the activities of the Lviv State Tax Administration. The project is already ready and distributed three weeks ago. And so I ask you to put it to the vote, to put it into the agenda and to create such a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u5	I ask the Secretariat to give me this motion for a ruling, and we will vote on it when we vote on the rulings. Well, please, out of the procedure, get out of the way so that you don't walk too far. Talk to me. Talk to me through the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u6	Thank you. Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, the point is that yesterday evening, on the site of the Supreme Council, there was a daily issue of parliamentary hearings on the relocation of Ukrainians from the Netherlands, the Lower East, and other Ukrainian ethnic lands. For some reason, this question has somehow fallen out of order today. It's a very important question. I would like to point out that, back in 1997, when President Kuchma and President Kwasniewski met, their common position was developed, where they asked for a legal assessment of what had happened. This is in the name of strengthening normal neighbourly relations between the states of Ukraine and Poland. So there's a time, there's an opportunity to hold these hearings, and I'd like to ask you very much, today, to restore it in order of the day, or as a minimum, to have it stand definitively next Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u7	Thank you. I'm asking the profile committee to give its opinion on this, and then we'll look at it separately. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we work in decision-making. You have a list of issues to decide from. The first question is to give consent for appointment as President. the granting of an appointment. In accordance with articles 106 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Prime Minister is appointed President of Ukraine for more than half of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As you know, the President of Ukraine has submitted to the Supreme Council an application for the approval of the Supreme Council for the appointment of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic as Prime Minister of Ukraine. As stipulated by the Rules and the relevant decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there were meetings of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic in factions and parliamentary groups. You have been provided with the Rules' reference material concerning the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Let me remind you, dear colleagues, of the procedure for dealing with this issue. For a presentation on the main directions of the new Cabinet of Ministers’ activities, the candidate is given up to 30 minutes. And up to 45 minutes to answer the questions of the national MPs. After that, it takes up to 45 minutes to discuss the proposed candidate. The decision to grant approval for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine shall be made by a roll-call vote. Let's move on to the question. Victor Fedorović Janukovic, Prime Minister of Ukraine, is invited to the rostrum. Please. Just a minute. Out of the Boki Ivan Sidorovich procedure, please. Dear colleagues, well, I'm asking you, it'll be all right now, wait. Please, Boki Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u8	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you as Head of the Supreme Council. As with the Rules, article 5.1.1 provides for paragraph 3: When considering the Prime Minister’s candidature and the candidates for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Further, article 5.1.2., paragraph 2. "The prime minister's candidate is reporting. Every national MP has the right to ask questions to the President of Ukraine and directly to the candidate." We're breaking the rules. We don't have a president right now. Ukraine is now singing, "That fog is rolling, Kuchmi in Prague wants." How are we going to deal without the President in violation of the Rules?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I answer. The President of Ukraine is on his way. We picked up the paperwork. In previous discussions, the President was absent in a number of cases, and that was not the question. We go, in principle, by logic. Please, People's Deputy Philenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Vladimir Filenko, faction of our Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we ask you as Head of the Supreme Council, and I will stop because I fear that the Head is not listening, and I am addressing you. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, as Head of the Supreme Council, we will soon need to make an important and responsible decision, according to the Supreme Council Rules, to inform the National Deputies of the absent deputies who are abroad and who are in hospitals and who for objective reasons will not be able to take part in the vote today. Thank you for this information if you give it to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u11	Dear colleague, already a national MP, our colleague, Mishur, has disturbed such a problem. I asked the Secretariat to provide the relevant information so that I could inform you. For the presentation of the report on the main directions of the new Cabinet of Ministers, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic is given. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen. I have the honour to share with you from this highest public rostrum the vision of the Ukrainian government's tasks and to identify the historic challenges that the country's executive power is to face today, along with Parliament. Today, there is still a fashion theme for winning the election. Let me also offer my vision. There is no alternative to Ukraine’s European choice. It expresses the historical strategy of our development. If this national idea is shared by the majority of the parliamentary forces, if they have won the election, this social consensus enables us to move from strategic planning to strategic planning. I wouldn't be setting a final goal for the formal date of accession to the European Union or NATO. So let's face it, as long as we're a country with a low standard of living, until we accept as our basic values the European civilization, as long as we're in Europe, not in geographic terms, but in a political sense, we're going to have a long-term perspective. But when the values of European civilization become fundamental to Ukraine, when the standards of European life become a reality for Ukrainian citizens, then, I am convinced, the question of joining European organisations will be resolved quickly and smoothly. The political reform announced by the President of Ukraine in August envisions a government accountable to Parliament, a government that relies on the parliamentary majority. Today, for the first time in the existence of an independent Ukraine, we have the opportunity to form a government coalition on the solid foundation of the parliamentary majority. Today, I believe more than ever that the harmonious cooperation of the legislative and executive branches of power that make up the heart of the government mechanism is essential. In this context, I am also considering today’s renewal of the government. We have a chance to create an effective mechanism of cooperation. This will enable me, and I am convinced of this, to direct all our potential to realize Ukraine's national interests. The reasons for previous failures are obvious. Without parliamentary resources, without credible reliance on parliament, the government simply cannot solve the whole range of socio-economic problems. Depending on the pace and quality of legislation, economic growth depends on improving the lives of the people. I invite parliamentarians, together with government officials, to form a legislative management based on a powerful intellectual base, strategic planning and a system-wide organization of work that responds to the world's patterns of parliamentaryism. Life requires new decisions. The present government cannot but be coalition. Once again, I became convinced that I was associating with the MP factions and the training groups to this day. Job priorities should be determined by the government in conjunction with the parliamentary majority, taking into account the opinion of minorities. This is the assurance of government’s viability. The government should have a lot of support in the parliamentary majority, but it cannot count on success if its work in accordance with the very nature of democracy is not transparent and understandable to the parliamentary minority. Next. I think I'm being supported in this way: democracy is an effective way of managing it, not the way to weaken government. Any political conjuncted attempt to sway through. In her 12-year-old state, I consider it to be a luxury that we have no right to allow. This is also true of the reform of the political system, which is known to have virtually been consensus. The parliamentary-presidential form of state administration has proven itself in Europe as a form of strong and reliable viable and effective state authority. The productive functioning of government structures will not be possible without the inclusion in the management elite of new people who are deprived of conservative complexes and have modern management. The human nomenclature, as it played an important role in the early years of the state, is now in the process of rotation. This is an objective process, but at the governmental level it needs to be revived. Fresh blood will force the state’s body to work more vigorously. I'm sure one of the main reasons we need is the quality of governance. The government would like to count on your help, on your suggestions where it comes from raising the level of intellectualization and professionalization of executive power. Dear National Deputies! The problems facing the Fourth Parliament and the 10th Government of an independent Ukraine should be resolved together. I think you'll agree with me, the first problem is poverty. I am fully aware that the role of another incantator who beats himself in the face of poverty is the conscientious historical role of the new government. We need to get rid of ostrich politics and acknowledge this fact -- a society of Ukrainian poverty and poverty spread to the poor and the rich. Clearly, then, it is necessary to adopt legislative acts aimed at reducing income differentiation. Social policy is to be our priority with you, distinguished national MPs, jobs. Social alignment and social redistribution are not just benefits, I would say not so many benefits, but above all, the state-wide regulation of social relations, which is being applied brilliantly by developed countries. Their experience should be introduced, not in words, but in action, from spells to specific orderly work. Parliament's first priority should be to adopt an appropriate package of laws. The government's first priority, I think, is to make these laws work so that citizens will experience positive changes over the next few months, not as a percentage of economic growth, but in improving their daily lives, rising pensions, lower taxes, creating new places. In the future, the way to finally overcome poverty is to increase the middle class, both within democratic society and in the market economy. So our second problem is that Ukraine, as a social state, has to make every effort to ensure that most citizens have access to free quality treatment. At the same time, a comprehensive reform of the entire health care system, such as the introduction of a modern health insurance model, must be initiated without delay. Third. Ukraine's job as a social state is to give real guarantees to any young person, regardless of their parents' wealth, to get an education. It is also evident that there is a need for a radical change in the attitude of public authorities toward such painful social problems as the spread of drug abuse, childlessness, and hidden unemployment. I believe that the effectiveness of the activities of the authorities, particularly regional authorities, should be measured by the level of their ability to solve social problems. Obviously, the fight against poverty will remain an empty promise if economic growth is not sustained. Ukraine is finally out of the category of countries with a deteriorating economy. The task of today's positive economic dynamics is to preserve growth rates as the most important achievement for our citizens to experience this progress, not as a percentage of GDP, but in their own city or village, shop, in their own home. At the same time, such progress is to signal the world: Ukraine, a dynamic state, is rapidly becoming a modern democratic state. But do we have the right options, let alone the unfavorable background for the overall decline in the world economy? We must recognize that the internal resources that have increased rapidly in recent years are virtually exhausted. You and I need to find new opportunities, new impulses for growth. I think that's what we have. First. We have a huge, unexploited resource in small and medium-sized business, which has so far been collided by the state, by competitors from big business, taxes. Small and medium-sized businesses must become a real economic favorite of the state. Here I go to the second position. The new government should be grateful to its predecessors for laying new foundations for the market economy. But we have no reason to say that the Reformation period is behind us. We have no right to stop halfway. The next phase of radical reforms that primarily apply to tax but also to financial banking, energy, budget, administrative areas should be vigorously moved to the next stage. In four years, you'll adopt, I'm sure, hundreds of important laws, but there are at least two of them, without which society is virtually unable to live, and the government is working. It's a package of tax and pension laws aimed at meeting the urgent needs of both our citizens who work and those who don't work anymore. In this area, compared with the SND countries, our neighbours, the Russians, we became a state with tax anachronism. Healthy tax thinking, pension reform can and should become powerful drivers of economic progress. In this regard, we need to take into account the positive experience accumulated in regions, particularly the experience of free economic zones. Third. Tax reform is the only way to get out of the shadow of the huge economic sector. So I'm talking to the honourable legislators: let's work together to get the economy out of the shadows. Today I am sure that there are no social forces interested in the present state of things. It's only a matter of political will. If we break the circle with you, we will accomplish the mission not only before today but also before future generations. Four. Foreign investment. We see that Ukraine remains unattractive to a foreign investor. And this isn't because there's no interest in the Ukrainian economy. The reason is that there is no effective legal support for investment, especially the stability of legislation. In this I see a joint task for the future work of Parliament and the government. In doing so, I think we need to take into account the experience that has already been accumulated in the regions. In today’s globalized world, living in a closed environment around planetary financial flows means being on the verge of global economic progress. Fifth, I cannot help but point out the challenges involved in developing basic areas of the national economy. In today’s world, not every developed state has such powerful industrial complexes as Ukraine. They were inherited from the Soviet superstate. Now it's our national acquisition, and we need to treat it properly. Today, many of these complexes do not work effectively enough, not least because of the lack of a clear government policy. We need to develop such a policy with you, honourable national deputies. It is clear to me that this policy must be built with the sole meaning of these complexes for Ukraine's future. I think you'll agree with me, in order for these complexes to work, you need investment, first of all national investment. The involvement of investment and conscientiously effective private owners in the basic area of the Ukrainian people's economy should be done through transparent and careful privatization, decisive and rapid improvement of corporate legislation, giving the necessary dynamics not only to the basic sectors and to our largest enterprises, but also to the entire national economy. But once again, all of this, both small businesses and large businesses need not only tax cuts but also legal stability. Six. I also appreciate the trust of the majority as recognition of the role of regional leaders in solving today’s complex problems. For this reason, I would like to express the view that regional politics also does not meet the requirements of time. The problem is not just the decentralization of power, but, above all, the expansion of the responsibility of the regions in which your electorate lives. To this end, the real meaning, including financial activities, of the municipalities, in the redistribution of financial opportunities and, at the same time, in the redistribution of responsibilities. It's about creating the same European standard of power in vertical proportions that we really need. In addition, we have completely missed national programming in such an extremely important economic and political direction as inter-regional integration. I'm sure you can find huge reserves of growth in this area. Seven. When we lack natural resources, we should bet on the bearers of ideas, minds and innovations that have always been and are uniquely endowed with the Ukrainian people. Today, intellectual resources are no less than natural, determining the historical perspective of the nation. Science and education should become priorities for government activities. The economic strategy of the modern state, when the post - industrial information age is at the window, should be guided by an innovative model of development. Dear friends, to conclude, I would like to express my gratitude to the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchmi, for the high trust I have shown to all of you, the people's deputies, the authorities of the state and the political actors, for the support I feel. This day, no matter how much it may be for me, I will remember my whole life as a great opportunity to give all my professional potential to the service of the State and the nation. At the beginning of the 20th century, our great thinker, Viacheslav Lipinsky, wrote in his famous "Letters to the Farmers' Brothers". "Times of revolution pass. And on this ruin left behind, the same Ukrainian plough, as has been done for centuries, has to take up new deserts, new fires, tear down and sow. But it's not a revolution anymore, it's a slow hard construction work. This requires peace, order, and order. I'd give God. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Let us turn to questions and answers. Please sign up for Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Let's take a look at the board. In 45 minutes. Paul Matvienko, European Choice MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u14	National MP Matvienko, 66 Corestinsk constituency, Ukrainian National Economic Development Party, European Choice MP. Dear Victor Fedorovich, one of the most painful questions of today's day is the budget issue, namely, the provision of the most vulnerable species of the population, the disabled, the incapacitated citizens, the citizens affected by the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power station. And how do you think work should be built in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u15	I think we need a comprehensive approach to solving these very problematic issues. First of all, we need to take into account in this year's budget all possible ways of financing the social sphere. It's different. I think we need to expand the potential of regions to deal with these issues. And we found a way out in the region when some funds were created, but they say it's manual control. And you need laws to spread the tax base of the regions and create the conditions to address these very important issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u16	People's Deputy Colonyari, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u17	Please give the word to Bastrizi Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u18	Ivan Bastriga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u19	Dear Victor Fedorovich! We all know that the Donetsk region during your administration, as governor, has achieved very good performance both in production and in solving social problems and so on in 5.5 years. Here's a question. With the leadership of the Government, will you be able to transform your experience into all of our respectable and dear States?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Ivan Mikhailovich! Deputies! I believe that the experience that has been developed in the regions, not only in the Donetsk region, should be used in general to address many issues in our State. As a representative of Ukraine on the Council of European Regions, I believe that we should take an active position, study the experience of European countries, especially in the areas of the creation of new laws that promote both social development and overall development and the role of regions in the development of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u21	National MP Nosenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u22	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Please give the floor to Deputy Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u23	Please, People's Deputy Lechchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u24	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Victor Fedorovich, first question. How do you assess the situation in the countryside? The other one. In last year's elections, many government administrations, including Chernigivska, actively violated the Electoral Act, interfering with this action. How will you react to these lawbreakers if you become prime minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u25	I will act according to the law. As for the village, we also have different regions in the village in the Donetsk region, for example, one situation similar to that in the Dnipropetrovsk and Zaporezian regions. A more difficult situation, we know, in the south of our country, because we're talking to my colleagues. In mountain areas too, the situation is difficult. So we need to approach these issues in a differentiated way, and I would think that the experience in our regions is he. This is our acquisition and we need to spread it. There are national problems. I think we have experts from these problems who know the dynamics of solving these issues and continue the reforms that we started in the state with regard to the mistakes that we made before.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u26	National MP Swatkov, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u27	May I have a word with Bogdan Gubski?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u28	Bogdan Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u29	Reverend Volodymira Mihajlovich, reverend Victore Fedorovich, has developed such a practice over the past few years that in those budgets that were submitted to the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers, the costs of science, education, and culture have not increased compared to those of previous years. If you are elected as Prime Minister, you will be following the practice of increasing expenditure on issues related to the financing of fundamental research and the financing of culture, not only on wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u30	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. We've talked to you a lot about this, so I think that the 2000 budget should be more acceptable in this part and not only at this level in 2002, but it should be accepted in the light of the errors that were in the 2002 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u31	Ludmila Suprun, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u32	Ludmila Suprun, NDP faction. Victor Fedorovich, look here, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u33	Right, right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u34	I have two questions. Can you initiate a comprehensive social reform, since this will have to be done with many benefits and a new choice of social protection for the population, a new order of social protection for the population? And the second. Can you overcome the shameful practice that has unfortunately developed in Ukraine with regard to the following: 54 percent of the population in Ukraine are women and 61 percent are women, since the life expectancy of women in Ukraine is longer than that of men, can you overcome the shameful practice that there have been virtually no women in Ukraine? And do you think it is necessary to reflect in government the corresponding composition of the population, considering that women are a fairly active force in society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u35	Thank you. I think that social policy in the state is one of the priorities that we need to include in the immediate agenda that I think we should develop in the near future. As for women, I agree with you, they are flaws, and they need to be taken into account. And to women, women must be treated with great respect and love.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u36	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u37	Dear Victor Fedorovich, according to the Presidential Administration's analysis in 2000, the Donetsk region was 11th in socio-economic terms, and in 2001 and 2002, it was 9 months, even in the unfortunate 13th place. So it turns out that you probably weren't recommended for socio-economic achievement. Then what's the point? Here comes the second question. Parliament assessed how undemocratic elections in the Donetsk region and even created a special commission of inquiry. From there comes two questions. First question: How did you contribute specifically to the work of this parliamentary commission? And secondly, if you think that the elections in Donetsk were democratically held, will your Donetsk experience be disseminated throughout Ukraine after you were elected Prime Minister? Thank you for your frank answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u38	With respect to places and order of summation. I think that's a very important question, and we have experience in the Donetsk area of summation. And in our view, those indicators and scales that affect the assessment of these places, they need to be reviewed now. But the main thing for us, the main factor in this path, was the dynamics. We've been looking at our indicators, I think, in my opinion, that Princess was somewhere in the lower part of the tournament table. We were very concerned. If it's 11th place, we think it's not too bad. It's about the election. In Donetsk there was the same situation as in other regions, but in the last few years, he united the people, united them into a single team, and now in all cities, in all parts of Donetsk, a team of contemplators, and a team of contemporaries in the Supreme Council. And if such a team comes to Ukraine, of the same mind, I think that's what the people of Ukraine have long been waiting for. And I wish it to our state and to all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u39	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u40	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski I'd like to give John Boki a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u41	Ivan Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, many people have gathered around the Supreme Council now, and there is a request to include a broadcast on the street. And to you, Victor Fedorovich, I want to ask you this question. I felt that when you spoke of a team of contemporaries, you were to some extent a humorist. Well, here we are, in the hall, a lot of officialism and some tension. So I'm going to ask three questions, they may not be humorous, but they do require a certain answer. It is known that in one of the temples, Donetska has your image on the church wall, where it is said to go to pray to the Donetsk official people. Not yet in Kiev, but it may be that in one of the denominations, or perhaps in a few, there will be instigators of the beginning and will offer to draw your icon in one of the temples. The first question is, will you take the lead in iconization in the capital, after all, to President Kuchmi? And would you not like to have a second question for you to borrow from him the experience of his engraving on carpets? Kuchma and Dusia ordered him a portrait abroad. It is now being sold in Kiev, and we have factories in Ukraine that are ready to fabricate chiefs ’ icons even on tapestries to get any jobs. Since the President is not here, he was afraid to come to Parliament with you, as required by the Rules, and I'm asking you a third question instead. Why do we have this comedy of the iconization of only government officials? Without the consent of the person who is canonized, the law does not allow such things. Of course, the soul itself does not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u43	I'll answer you in Russian. An hour goes by and you get an answer, and trust me, he'll be very worthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u44	That's the whole answer, isn't it? National MP Borzih. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u45	Borzih, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Victor Fedorovich. All my family and family live and work in Donetsk. That's why I don't know exactly how ordinary people feel about you living in the Donetsk region. They respect you, above all, for the fact that you always keep what you promise. Therefore, I would like to dispel the doubts of my colleagues who met you before this meeting. I'm sure this man's promise at these meetings will be fulfilled. Victor Fedorovich, I'd like to ask you this question. How do you see the new regional policy of the new Government? I mean, as you think, those regions and those who live well and contribute more to the budget, should live better and more decently in their regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u46	I think that in all regions of Ukraine we have the same teachers, the same doctors and the same people. And budgeting, I believe, should be carried out on the basis of the characteristics of the regions, taking into account the various correction factors that are not currently available. This is a shortfall in the current budget. I have repeatedly said that so far no Ukrainian government has adopted the budgets of the regions, to the greatest regret. And if we differentially started to adopt the budgets of the regions, they say, on a commission basis. We would take into account the contradictions that now exist and the differences, and there would not be many issues that concern all of us today. And the correction factors, taking into account the characteristics of the regions, are practically in each region: it is also ecological, it is also low population density and mountain areas, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u47	National Deputy Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u49	Victor Terrence. Well, please speak from the microphone of the People's Deputy Kirilchuk. Turn on Victor Terran, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko microphone. Where's your card?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u50	All of it. Thank you. Thank you all. Dear Victor Fedorovich, I have a very humble question for you. Your annual income is very modest in the lens you supplied. That's only 17,000 dollars. So the question is: Can you, with such modest incomes, resist the traditional temptation to corrupt the government, or will you need any help in this context, let us say? And the second question is even shorter. Please excuse me and read a really nice report. But where are you real, or in this report that you read about the principles of democracy, or in that violent terrorism, that anti-democracy, that whole horror that happened in the elections in the Donetsk region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u51	I'll answer that question with a sense of humor. Because when I'm serious, I see that it's not the right thing to do in the room. In life, we must always be ourselves. And the judge of each and every one of us is ourselves. But the things we do, and the way we choose, it always imposes, as they say, stains that don't always adorn us are not always. That's why I've never, like, stood up like that. It's never been like this in my life.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u52	National deputy of Nechiporuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u53	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Victor Fedorovich! Let me ask you these questions, I think the answer will be one of the programs or the main features of your program. You will lead the government of Ukraine, this government will be conservative or reformer? The second question. Your vision of tax reform. And the third question. Your attitude about the level of pay for education and doctors? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u54	Here I'm told by my fellow national MPs that the government that looks at it is what it is. But I think we're all saying that the government has to do something that meets the requirements of today, so I think it's going to be more reformative.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u55	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u56	I said that we need to do an emergency program and there should be priorities in this program, so we're going to set these priorities together, and I don't see an alternative, because we have to have both education and science and health at the European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u57	As far as the tax system is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u58	The tax system does not need any criticism. We're with you. I can't take it. I'm sorry. You and I, when we met on the factions, we discussed this. I think we have one thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u59	Pejota National MP, European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u60	Victor Fedorovich, I have a question. You often mention the software and target method in your performances. I would like to hear what this is, what its essence is, and how you will put it into practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u61	Thank you. The software method is to combine planning methods with the market economy system. We've been implementing it for five years in the Donetsk region, it's given us the results we've gotten. First of all, people felt that way. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u62	National Deputy Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u63	Fucking Communist faction. Victor Fedorovich, I've already asked you this question on the Communist faction, and I want to repeat it, to clarify it. Because the attitude of the President of Ukraine to the heads of administration is mixed: some of them are removed from office as Montenegrin and Churchmen, as Paul Lazarenko puts you in office as the head of the government. You know, I've already told you that Lazarenko, by creating a party of the Crowds, ended up in his opposition to the President, and now he's abroad, you know where. You have a Party of Regions today that supports you, and we know how it worked in Donetsk. Don't you think that could be your destiny? Because you're going to be president today, and it might be that you're going to win, and the President is going to take you down, and the party is going to dissolve you. How do you appreciate this question?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u64	I'm going to answer very briefly. I don't appreciate it, first. Secondly, I think we have taken other paths with Paul Lazarenko. And I have other goals.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u65	People's MP Klimpus, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Victor Fedorovich, in your speech, you mentioned poverty as one of the biggest problems that needs to be addressed in our country first. It is known that the mountainous regions of the Carpathian Mountains, which I represent in Parliament, are unfortunately the poorest region in Ukraine. At the same time, Parliament has adopted the Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements, and unfortunately this law is not being implemented by 50 percent. Regrettably, the measures envisaged by the government, the President, to eliminate the effects of flood damage in Zakarpat, are also funded by 50 percent or less. The situation is known that there is no need for specific government assistance. Can it be counted that priority will be given to these poor people in the first place, the poorest in Ukraine today? Can you expect your support in carrying out all the measures that have been planned for this land? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u67	Thank you, Your Honor Oreste Dmitrovich. You can count on it, but what you do know is how Princess treats Carpathian and I personally. Before the Carpathians, we have taken many steps to work together to resolve very important issues. And with other regions, we're also doing the search that we're doing together, and they're already producing results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u68	The Noshchenko People's Deputy, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u69	The Hard Ukraine faction, 160 constituency. Dear Victor Fedorovich, the poverty eradication you've been talking about, by increasing social assistance, is an unpredictable path. But in doing so, we should always be responsible for the balanced development of the territories, excluding the principle: better there and those closer to Kiev. Today, there is no secret that there are still areas where there is no gas, where businesses do not work, where more than half of the land is not gleaning, because it is not suitable for crops. There have been questions, but I want my voters to hear them again: Will you support the adoption of a special law on depressed areas? That's the first question. And the second. The 2003 budget practically imposed a moratorium on wage levels, social assistance levels, pensions, including the most vulnerable levels of the population — children and persons with disabilities. We know that each ministry, as the main fund managers, has submitted its budgets and wants to live in Europe. The cost of repairs, computerization, and information is enormous. We want our Houses of Parliament, the Supreme Council, to be beautiful, but the question of this plan is, how do you intervene in this process of reviewing the government's control figures? At what stage? How big? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. The Donetsk region also has depressive territories, and we have already initiated the adoption of the law and the program of a separate government program that would take the step that the inhabitants of these regions are waiting for today. It's a very important law. And I think the adoption of the law, it's very urgent, it's a question. What about the budget? I agree with you that the adoption of a budget that does not address such important issues should be suspended. We need to take a closer look at these issues and accept this budget, taking into account the potential of the shortcomings it has.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u71	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u72	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine," Dear Victor Fedorovich, I will be able to speak from our faction, which is why I give my word to my colleague after the Leonid Chernewsky faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u73	Leonid Chernewsky. True, there was no statement about joining the faction, we did not publish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u74	Honourable People's Deputies, some two years ago in the territory of the Donetsk Region, were killed by an outstanding journalist, Igor Alexandrov. I would like us to honour his memory for a minute of silence, in fact, because we trust the Donetsk region today. I urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u75	Please sit down. Yes, the National MP of Spivacuk, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u76	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please give the word to Joseph to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u77	Well, please have a question. Yes, Victor Fedorovich. Turn on the microphone of the people's representative of Chernevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u78	I do not want to say anything bad, except that there are people who have put their lives in order to make our country more democratic. In this regard, I have a question for a distinguished candidate. I think so. I've been interrupted, and I want Alexander to maybe look at our meeting today, and I want him to be satisfied with both your response and our position. Have you done everything to ensure that democracy is in order in the Donetsk region and that you develop democratic institutions there and how you are going to do so? All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u79	I think that the people's deputies from the Donetsk region will be better able to answer this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u80	People's MP Singeruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u81	Vladimir Spivacuk, Socialist Party Please give the word to Joseph to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u82	Joseph of Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u83	Dear Victor Fedorovich, I would like to ask three related questions. First. What should the Cabinet of Ministers be like in the power system? And why is there no law so far on the Cabinet of Ministers, in your opinion? The other one. What will be the specific parameters achieved by your government in figures that have not been named today? Wages, pensions, GDP, economic growth, that sort of thing. And the third question. When Lazarus was appointed, the president was here and even waved to us that if anyone voted against, it would immediately be visible who was for the people and who was against the people. And now he's gone and there's no one to wave. Do you think this will affect the vote for you or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u84	I'll start with the last question. Looking at the hall, I don't think it'll work. First question. The government has to be strong enough, the government has to work with parliament, and it has to work with it in principle and professionally. I also believe that the Presidential branch of power should be strong. Then there will be a strong state.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u85	And the question of the parameters that the government is planning to achieve. There are signs of economic and social development there, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u86	I said in my report that we should accept the new composition of the government with the parliamentary coalition should adopt a programme that would be implemented. Then there'll be a result.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u87	National Deputy Shevchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u88	Dear Victor Fedorovich, the success of land reform has enabled us today to talk about production, the increase in gross agricultural product and in Donetsk and the Dnipropetrovsk region. But unfortunately, the market in the internal market is not ready. It is extremely balanced to accept such products, there is very little cost of production, and there is a threat of destruction of many farms. There is also a great need for Ukraine to enter the external market with its agricultural production. Are steps planned in the new government, and how quickly can they be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u89	When we met with the Agrarian faction, we considered this very carefully. And I think that experts who are now both in Parliament and in the agricultural sector are able to do a program that is slow but purposefully addressing the issues that you are now raising.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u90	Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich, next Nemirowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u91	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u92	Turn on the school microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u93	Andrew School, UNA UNSO Party, Yulia Block Timoshenko I'd like to ask you two questions, Your Honor, Victor Fedorovich. First of all, you know, in the sense that it's so complicated that I'm more likely to have Parliament vote for you today, I'm interested in two questions. You know, there are now several signs of totalitarianism in Ukraine. One of these is the presence of political prisoners in Ukrainian prisons. You know, after the events on March 9, there are political prisoners, and there are political prisoners after the events on September 16. Your position on this matter. Will you increase the number of political prisoners, or will you contribute to the removal of this sign of totalitarianism in Ukraine? And the second. This time the Cabinet of Ministers took up amnesty. Who knows that amnesty is very good and necessary. With your government, will amnesty come to parliament on time, will it really be democratic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u94	If it's up to me, I'm going to be helping to deepen the dialogue and there's no such thing as that. And if they do have a place, we should adopt laws that are now in society and are a world experience of adopting such laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u95	Nemirowski Oleg Anatoliyovich. Next Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u96	Ukraine's Social Democratic Party. [[united]] I would like to give the floor to the Deputy Suhim.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u97	Turn on the Dry Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u98	Thank you. Victor Fedorovich. Jaroslav is dry, the city of Zaporozhye, the faction of SDPU. I, along with a group of Ukrainian national deputies, represent the interests of the industrial region of Zaporozhye. So I have two questions that are of vital importance not only to Zaporozhye, but I'm sure, and to Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkiv and Dnipropetrovsk. Please tell me first. Will you support and develop the Chinese government’s policy of moving away from rigid, groundless monetaryism and moving to the innovative model for the development of the Ukrainian people’s economy? That's the first question. And the second. Do you today have a vision of the development of the Ukrainian national economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u99	Thank you. I believe that this government should consistently continue the reforms that were before the government. And we met with Anatoly Kirilovich and discussed this issue and we have a great understanding in that direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u100	Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u101	Bondarczuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Victor Fedorovich, you claim to be Prime Minister of a very poor country. She used to be rich, and now she's poor. And you know what happened because we have market reforms. Judging from the programme you have now presented to us, you are a proponent of continuing the same market liberal bourgeois reforms. But the consequences of your policy are not difficult to predict: the people will live even worse, they will start to fight more actively, and in general they will go about as far as Western Europe is concerned. We watch TV and know how much more the working class resists market reforms. In this situation, when it will stand before the choice: either resign or shoot people. What will you choose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u102	I will choose the course of reforms that we and Parliament will set and implement together.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u103	National MP Kozachenko, People's Rule Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u104	Thank you. Alexy Kozachenko, Odessa, the People's Rule Group. Dear Victor Fedorovich, I ask you to answer a question that relates to a problem that could be a problem of life or death for entire industries. Please comment on the situation that has arisen regarding the value added tax in our country. Please tell me, what do you think is the main cause of the VAT crisis, and what steps will the government take if you choose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u105	This is a very important question, so I think that it is necessary to resolve this issue immediately and that the experience of solving these issues is also in developed countries. Together with Parliament, we need to make an immediate decision and that poor woman who is now in VAT should be budgeted in 2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u106	Question - and - answer time is running out. Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. The reply is given by the national MP John Boki, on his request. All right, you can sit down, Victor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u107	Mr. Prime Minister, in answering my question, you used a phrase that I and I did not understand as a threat. I was told by the radio audience. No, no, there's no humor here. I'm asking you to answer. Otherwise, as a threat, you can't take what you're saying about how soon I'm going to feel your answer. Please tell me, before you become prime minister, do you promise me the fate of Igor Alexandrov or something more elaborate? If so, I congratulate the majority and the President with a well-chosen election, and our services, the Attorney General's Office and the Supreme Court, whose head is here, with the ease of their work, because it is quite clear. I ask you, Victor Fedorovich, to answer me clearly and clearly so that Ukraine can hear what awaits me if you become Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. There's no microphone, so. Well, please. Well, dear fellows, let's not get excited, for God's sake. Turn on the microphone of the national deputy Boko. Turn on the microphone of the national deputy Boko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u109	I haven't hurt a fly in my life.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u110	Thank you, I realize I'm not a fly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I think that, dear colleagues, that we all realized that Victor Fedorovich was saying that they would feel the answer to an adequate, effective and effective government work that would affect the social well-being of every human being and state in general. Dear colleagues, we need to make a deal. We have 45 minutes to make speeches. I propose because there have been meetings with factions and groups, so that the accumulated opinion is expressed by factions or authorized by factions. Is there no objection? Yes, please. I'll inform you, sit down, please. Please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! Today, we are considering, to a certain extent, a question of interest to Ukraine. 13 years in Parliament, and when we talked about 13 prime ministers, we seemed to be moving like this. At first, each MP had 10 minutes to speak. Then they took this right to factions -- 10 minutes. Then five minutes is fixed in the Rules. Today, in view of this situation, factions need to be given an opportunity to speak for at least five minutes on this very important issue. I'm asking you to consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, before we began to consider this issue, I informed you what the Rules were. There was no objection. Now there are new proposals, new trends. Let's follow the Rules. I'm putting Alexander Frost to the vote. Who's in charge of giving the factions in five minutes? Please make up your mind. [[11:22:33]] For 104 The decision is not taken. I recommend people's deputies not to pull out cards because you don't have time to vote. The factions, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The Ukrainian agrarian faction has Catherine Timofievna Vaszczuk. Please. Prepare Sergey Tihypco. I'd like to enter the Rules for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected government, guests present at today’s meeting. In Ukraine’s new history, we hear the new Prime Minister on this rostrum. Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, we estimate, is the tenth prime minister today. We all understand perfectly, candidate, yes. We all understand very well that the frequent change in governments has not been in favour of the economy of Ukraine or the standard of living of the Ukrainian people. But for the first time in our history, we have the opportunity today to start completely new forms of government and parliament cooperation. The government’s work depends heavily on what its legislative activities will be. The effectiveness of our laws is also entirely dependent on the clear, constructive, coordinated work of the entire executive branch of the same branch of authority. So today we have the opportunity to make a government of the consolidated majority of the Supreme Council. The faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party believes that it is a chance to improve good cooperation, which can help boost the economy, to resolve the urgent issues that each faction has posed to the candidate. For us, first of all, it's financial support, it's economic, it's the development of the market by the development of agricultural machinery, it's the development of a credit system that would extend to long-term lending, the social development of the village, the growth of wages, the pensions of our voters, the development of regions. In our opinion, Victor Fedorovich, with a great deal of experience working in the largest, and probably the most difficult region of our country, can cope with government leadership. One way to do this is if we, the Supreme Council, work with the government. That's why we urge all the national MPs to think today, to be endlessly opposed, to criticize the government, to be popular. And you can put your shoulders and work honestly for the economy, for the good of the people of Ukraine. We therefore call for support for today's candidate for Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u115	Sergey Tihypco from the faction of industrialists, entrepreneurs, and labor Ukraine. Prepare Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u116	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen. Representatives of factions and political parties, who created a joint faction of "Trug Ukraine" and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, held several meetings with the prime minister's candidate. All of these meetings were held openly and openly. We've discussed all the risks that can and can arise before the country. I can say that on most of the issues we share views with the prime minister’s candidate, how to resolve them. We agreed that on issues on which we were unable to negotiate or on which we disagree today, we would put our people into a working group that would work on an urgent agenda, and these issues would be discussed there. What else does it matter? Yesterday, for the first time in our country’s history, a treaty was signed between the leaders of nine factions and the prime minister’s candidate. The basic idea of the treaty is to create a coalition government right after the vote. In view of these circumstances, parties and factions have decided to support a single candidate to the Prime Ministers and to vote in favour, for which we urge you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u117	Anatoly Matvienko from the faction of Julia Timoshenko’s block Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u118	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear Head, colleagues, guests. Perhaps more than ever today, the question of the appointment of the Prime Minister for Ukraine and for its future is a dramatic and responsible one. Dissatisfaction with power, the current political regime, is on the rise both inside and outside. Controversies are escalating. On the one hand, all objectively and totally vastly, and in that room, there are changes to be made. On the other hand, the agonizing presidential vertical does not want and cannot allow them. Because that's the end she's afraid of. Each side of this contradiction is looking for an active and decisive Prime Minister to solve problems. Do you, Victor Fedorovich, respond in such qualities? I don't think that's why your supporters in this room say so. But whether you are able to act and decide to direct the political situation, to put them in the service of national interest as a sacred priority of your activity. Unfortunately, don’t be offended, you never showed it because you didn’t understand. You served only the authority of the chieftain. This has proved to be a success. You, as no one at the regional level, have created a preserve of the stability of today's regime with all its absurdities and outpourings. That's the way you've implemented this kind of activity and determination. We accept that, as in the Donetsk region, there is no right or right in Ukraine as opposed to the President. An agonizing regime needs a Stolipe at all costs, at all costs, at all costs. You don't set them up. But you're not a reformer today, and that's why you're not even their savior, which they don't understand. You're really a good manager, but then to make reforms there must be an idea, there must be a program, there must be a strong balanced program, let's say, like in the United States, where Adenauer had Erhardt, as it was in Poland, where Mazowitz had Baltzerovich. Who, Victor Fedorovich, are you? Not those who know how to do it, but those who know how to use it. And so, Victor Fedorovich, in that sense, you're naked. You don't have a command. The rape of the majority and the insatiability of its leaders will never be a resistance to good things, for they are driven by their own interests rather than national ones. This directed majority will put you in the service of their greed or destroy you. And are you not satisfied with the example and fate of today’s government and of the one seated? I'm asking for 30 more seconds. But most of all, it's not that. The prime minister is to be appointed by a man who sends a powerful signal of trust both in and outside Ukraine. These are the most necessary medicines for our sick society. Unfortunately, you will not do so today in your status. Rather, we risk losing that trust. Therefore, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko cannot support your candidacy and urges everyone not to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u119	Vladimir Yavorowski of the "Our Ukraine" faction. Please do not force me to take effective action.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u120	Grand Governor of the Donetsk Region! Honorable national electorate, who has to become voters again for a few minutes. It's not our usual role, but we have to do it. Dear Victor Fedorovich! I would like to say, honourable deputies, that in the person of the prospector, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich, we have a truly powerful, high-priority political figure in Ukraine. A man who managed to cope with such a wide, complex, socio-explosive region as Donetsk, and not only managed it, but, in fact, took it under her arm, took it into her fist and took it and so held it to God, and the election proved that he was capable of it. This is, of course, the ready Prime Minister for today’s Ukraine. The other one. In the person of Victor Fedorovich, we have a beautiful, wonderful person. Why? I'll tell you. Even what he wrote about being in prison twice is kind of very close and understandable to me, because today, if we take what the head of the Administration has been in prison for two years, it seems to me that the best of our leaders today are the ones corrected by the reformed labor colony. It's wonderfully simple, we have people like that today. But nevertheless, Victor Fedorovich, I want to tell you that no one in this room likes you as much as our Ukraine. That's why we advised you yesterday, and I spoke and I advise you today. Victor Fedorovich, think again. I don't blame any of my colleagues who vote for you today. They're people who are interned, they've got documents taken from them, and they've been chased down, and they're doing what they're told to do. It's perfectly clear. But think of one thing. She sits in China, for which she was saved as much as you are today, and I have honored Mrs. Catherine for the tenth time in this rostrum and says, "Better Prime Minister than this one has ever been and will never be with us again. [[Applause]] He's sitting in the Kinakh, which is the political force that's pushing you today, and he's the second number for "Eat" thrown out without any explanation. That's why they'll be waiting for you, because they want -- those who vote for you, and even those who sit behind them, who sit there -- they'll be in line tomorrow for you to give them this Ukraine. And if you don't, they're going to burn you, just like they did Kinach. Because with great love for you, Victor Fedorovich, "Our Ukraine" wants to help you. That's why I won't vote for you. And if you lose. And if you lose, we'll be the first to come and give you a bouquet of flowers. He's ready for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u121	From the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Alexander Moroz. Prepare Valery Pavlovich Putovatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u122	Honourable MPs and guests of Parliament! The newly created government crisis is a reflection of the essence of the regime, for which political manipulation is more important to people, of the regime that engenders, in contradiction with all levels of the population and with the international community. Instead of actually taking up political reform, it is followed by imitations that have been made hypocritically on the basis of a decree that the government will resign the idea of false-coality. It's a campaign of political reform, an effort to reverse the President's statement on August 24th. It's about the essence of a political moment. Now we're talking about a run for prime minister. Victor Janukovic is a brilliant example of a management model created by Kuchma. The model that was shown in Ukraine on one hand to complete perfection, on the other hand, to absurdity. This model should go into oblivion if you think about the perspective of the state. The existing regime or the wrath of people on its own bastards, or it chooses those who see only personal gain in the regime. The last one is the most. Victor Fedorovich of the first category. An experienced manager, a skilled organizer, a literate specialist, but he deliberately played by the rules of the regime. For example, there is no need to go far: elections 2002 and all that is involved; debate over lawyer Salov; the murder of Igor Alexandrov and everything around this crime is evidenced by the law enforcement agencies of the Donetsk region operating outside the law and the Constitution. In Ukraine today, this is unfortunately no surprise, but for these crimes, the governor cannot fail to bear responsibility. Victor Yanukovich's leadership style of economics, particularly business, is also the perfect implementation of this system when combining market conditions with administration creates conditions of total corruption and the wrong system of human dependence. In certain circumstances, in certain directions, this gives a positive breakthrough, but it does not bring success in the population. This state-wide experience will allow the government to take over the most important areas and centres of business, but even more than now it will oppress small and medium-sized businesses, a single person, create economic distortions, direct export raw materials to a colonial perspective, creating a wild image of Ukraine in the world. Ukraine needs to generate competitive opportunities for economic operators, legal and transparent rules of the game, not monopolistic rights of clans. This can only be done after the change of power, after the democratisation of the economy, the whole of social life is the path to success. One of them is to get the government out of the shadow of the unconstitutional body of the President's Administration. If, Victor Fedorovich, you're going to be prime minister, you're going to do this thing, or you're not going to do it, and you're going to be ex-premier by the 12th. To tell you the truth, when I feel -- I'm going to finish -- the situation in Parliament and in other circles of power, I think you, Victor Fedorovich, would be happy to have so-called allies, thinkers in charge of who thinks you're the director. Maybe I'm wrong, but the bottom line is, in other circumstances, I think you could do a lot of good to the state. In today's and still without Parliament's control, it will be a resonant imposition of dangerous leadership fluctuations on the chaotic swinging of the rusty regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u123	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u124	I'm done. So the Chinese, from where the President came back last night, say, "Look for a reason, not a consequence." The reason is that there's a weak system of government. It needs to be changed, and the sooner the better. Based on political beliefs, the faction cannot support Viktor Yanukovic's candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u125	Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Prepare Petra Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u126	Dear friends! I think what he's going to say is, of course, the Desert Woman. You know that the faction of the People’s Democratic Party has taken a clear position on the support of Prime Minister Kinakh Anatoli Kirilovich. I feel for a government that has not worked very long, and I would like to thank the government for its fruitful work, for its fruitful cooperation. Well, unfortunately, life is life.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u127	I beg your attention, fellow officers. May I have your attention, please? Please, Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u128	Life is life and, unfortunately, a government sent back to retirement, and this once again shows that we have no stability in the work of executive power in our country. And when there is no stability, there is also a lack of adequate economic transformation of the structural transformation of our economy that needs to develop. There's the President of Ukraine. He made a choice, made a submission under the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to wish a new government, which will be chosen, because the decision is made, a happy path. To live to the inauguration of the President of Ukraine. And the faction of the People's Democratic Party will vote in favour of Viktor Yanukovic's candidacy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u129	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich. Get ready for Rajisy Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not vote on the definition of the future Prime Minister of Ukraine. We come from the next. By advocating in principle the positions of our constituents and by offering to the Ukrainian Parliament, like all societies, in this case and to the Government another constructive programme to address all the ill-treatment problems related to the lives of specific people, we insist on a consistent and principled change in the course of economic reforms. The proposed consideration of changing the Government of actors today without the approval of the programme, when a crisis determines the priority of a particular problem, the sources of funding, the determination of the objectives and the timing of their resolution, cannot today decide which government will carry out its future activities. We also take into account the fact that, in the context of the current President's absurdity and crime of his political agenda for the reform of society, any Government has to implement this programme. And this will certainly lead to a further deepening of the crisis. But there's another danger that's not what's behind our society, it's Ukraine that's actually knocking in our common house. The last appointment of Sherbain as head of the Government of the Suma Region indicated that the President had clearly, rather than secretly, stated that he had become on the path of criminalization of power. This is a real threat, which in a crisis shows that the President and his environment sees no other way to solve problems and fights only for the preservation of their personal political and physical lives. In this tragedy today, Ukraine. Therefore, in making a responsible decision, the same “majority” should state that our Cabinet of Ministers will be composed of the following actors, as it does in the world as civilized as you call us to, most of us. Today, there is a specific candidature, there is a portfolio sale, a public budget share and an increase in crime in our country. It's unacceptable and it's criminal. Without considering specific programmes and ways out of this situation, a faction of Communists and invites them not to take part in the vote, and this will be demonstrated in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u131	Raisa Vasilovna Bogtirova from the faction of "Ukraine" to prepare Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u132	Dear National Deputies! The last week, in this session hall and in the towers, the word "agreement" was often heard. I want to build my speech only on a statement. I'm going to try to talk about things that you, my colleagues, call fact-finding. And I'll start with simple questions: what personal qualities should be present for the person who today is a candidate for the Prime Minister, who today will lead today's government in a challenging economic, political and international situation. I don't think anyone will argue if they call it consistency, courage, motherhood, and stand up for their own vision and courage. Do many of today’s politicians have such tools in their entirety? The answer is obvious: One such leader is Viktor Janukovic. Yes, the Prime Minister may not need much today. But I ask you all to leave your own interests and to fight only for the interests of the common people and the interests of the Ukrainian people. After all, it is up to you and me, national MPs, who today will not only participate in the formation of the government, but also be responsible for its activities, that it is up to you to be fully dependent on us whether these qualities can fully engage such a powerful figure as Viktor Yanukovic. Secondly, while continuing the simple questions and finding out the facts, I would like to ask: What political qualities should be the head of government today? The answer is obvious: It must be ideologically uninvolved. And it's Victor Janukovitch's ideological integrity, his willingness to dialogue with all the political forces he's constantly demonstrating in the position of governor, his tolerant position is the position of a man who knows the prices of social peace, and he understands that all people, regardless of their political beliefs and ideological passions, are equal, equal citizens of our state. And third. What personal experience and professional qualities can be most involved in the prime minister's office today? A year-long and successful, effective management of the largest area of Ukraine -- isn't this the best test for the prime minister? So, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine," unanimously supporting Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic's appointment, urges you to make a positive choice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u133	The word from the faction "Democratic Initiatives" comes from Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish. Prepare Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. In an uncomplicated time, we are discussing the new Ukrainian government and the difficult discussions we are having. Giving due cause for significant economic, social upheavals. We realize that serious structural reforms are yet to come. And this is the main task of the next government, which I hope will be led by Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. The new challenges that exist in Ukraine and in the modern global system of social development mean only one thing that the implementation of democratic, rapid, radical but at the same time socially oriented reforms should be the main task of the modern Ukrainian government. We also report on the fact that the large portfolio that lies ahead of us in relation to our obligations, our becoming a member of a European society, obliges us to work seriously on the adoption of European legislation. Social projects, pension reform, the adoption of laws on social state health insurance, the adoption of the Tax Code, the closure of the Civil Code, and many other issues are the basis of government activities that should be represented in the new program. And we report to ourselves that the government will be responsible for carrying out political systemic reform, where the main component will be our adoption of the model of electoral law, as well as the solution to the problem of the administrative and territorial system, and the main change in the form of power in the Ukrainian state, where the system of balances and restraints would be designed to prevent any usurpation in the system of government from taking place, and the government and parliament could work as the only team. Of course, I realize that these problems are ahead. But meetings with Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic have shown that the managerial potential, practical and political training, the ability to find partners, the formation of the principles that have emerged in this session room today, allows us to support the Group of Democratic Initiatives in today's vote. And I'd like to address him personally. Victor Fedorovich, you've seen who you're going to have to work with. The opposition and opposition that prevail in our political club obliges you to apply the only principle: there must be only one partner in this room of the Ukrainian government, because it is from which Ukraine flees today, the answers to the daily retirement questions, wages, well - being, and improvement of life in Ukraine as a whole. And I want to urge you to work with a broad democratic coalition that will support your reforms, always rely on those who initiate national Ukrainian interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u135	From the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. [[united]] Prepare for the European Choice, who will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u136	Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine has fully analyzed the situation today, and has met with Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, we have expressed our wishes, expressed our doubts, but we have come to the conclusion that the faction will unanimously support Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. [[united]] [[Applause]] First. Why? Because his program, as expressed in this rostrum, coincides with the goals and tasks of the Social Democrats program. The priorities set out in his statement are in line with our priorities. The other one. Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, working in a very complex economic, political region, managed to transform his knowledge, his experience. The case at Donbas today is in line with the situation that has arisen, and it has a better prospects. Next. I want to thank Anatoly Kirilovich Kinacha and his government for their work, but I think you know that when the government does its job, it can't work fully. And that's why those who today call for no vote for Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovich, whether they want it or not, whatever the eloquence here is, they say, "We have to push the problem of forming a government." And that means getting involved in a government crisis and a hostage, whether we want it or not, will happen to the Ukrainian people. There are several milestones to democracy. Democracy is extremely delicate and inclusive. But our faction, my dear friends, has never printed cards when it comes to any complex issue. I think those who turned off their cards are just afraid of democracy. And the next. I welcome the eloquence of everyone and everything, and I'm glad to hear when red Ukrainian sounds from the rostrum. But I would not want this eloquence to offend the MPs. Dear friends! There really is a crisis in Ukraine. And we're all responsible for that. Parliament is torn apart. I emphasize that Parliament is torn apart, and you want there to be no government. We call for reason and responsibility!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u137	Infantry Vladimir Juliusovich, please. Get ready from the People's Landing who'll be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Here someone has already said that we are experiencing a change in the tenth government, or the formation of the tenth government. Maybe some of the deputies are so used to it that we're already turning it around, I'm sorry for some show business, and we need to take it seriously, on the other hand. Perhaps today you really need to adjust your policies in the field of economics. Today we need to make significant changes in the governance structure of our government, including the government. Russia went for it, the Baltica went for it. They have quite different results now. If we approach this by replacing one prime minister with another rather than changing the government’s work, there will be no explanation for this. And before we have a unified branch of power today, there will also be no long-suffering Ukrainian people, which we all call for love, none of it will. So I would feel that today the issues that we should ask in reforming the government are, first of all, areas that need to be raised to the level so that our strong state can become strong through the regions. Today only by creating conditions for investment in the region, creating jobs, expanding our position at the regional level, we can achieve economic growth. Today it is about adapting our legislation to European legislation. We talk a lot about going to Europe. And look at how much money has been invested in the budget to develop our legislation and adapt it to European. We don't have laws within our nation, let alone a European level. That is why I call today for reform and the creation of a new government to mean a new stage in the development of our economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u139	From the National Authority MP, please, Bogdan Hubsky, who will be speaking? Identify yourself. You won't, will you? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The People's Government MP group met with Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. During this position, we were hard-pressed to see the problems that need to be solved by the Cabinet of Ministers, namely, budget policy, the question of increasing the well-being of the Ukrainian population, raising the standard of living of people, so that we do not today say that our educators, our education, science and culture are beggars. From our point of view, the first thing to consider is Victor Fedorovich’s choice, which is related to the social problems of the population of Ukraine. That's question number one. And from the answers we've heard from Viktor Fedorovich, the visions of his program we've seen that, in fact, the problems we've set up, they're perceived by him and he's willing to take on their implementation. Next. The People's Government MPs are made up of major MPs. What impresses us is that today, a man who is one of the regional leaders has been nominated as prime minister. And most importantly, this candidature is not overburdened by the stereotypes and thinking of the capital politics. As a result, the People's Government MP group decided to lend credit to Viktor Fedorovich, voting in favour of him in the consideration of the issue. Among the desires that we would like to express is, in our view, to establish constructive cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. Because we understand very well that in this situation only constructive cooperation between the government and the Supreme Council will allow us to adopt those bills that will indeed ensure economic growth. And from this point of view, we would think that our wishes would have to be taken as a basis for the future activity of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u141	Thank you. Yes, the factions all came from. The word for replication requires the National Deputy of Vastuk. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak. Will you be performing?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u142	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to address the honorable Mr. Yavorowski. He wanted to offend me in this room, but he insulted himself because we have one difference. I remember my two performances on this rostrum for the Prime Minister: this is my proposal for Victor Andriyovich Yushchenka, recommended and supported by our faction, and now. And we have different fates. His harsh word allowed him to be in the blue for all time -- both with the Communists, and with fashion critics with the Democrats. I have another destiny: to plow the field for 20 years, and now to protect the concrete steps of those who plow it. Maybe I'm wrong, but I'm working, not pulling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u143	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not about Janukovich, it's not about the staff, it's about the model of power-building. And today our faction will not vote because it does not share the ideology of power-building in Ukraine. We are opposed to forming the majority of which it was formed, and after that, most of us are proposing to the Prime Minister without being involved in the coalition of the faction "Our Ukraine". We believe that it is necessary to create a coalition that is 280, 290, 300 votes that could work effectively, which could offer the Prime Minister’s candidacy to help the government work. Even if we choose Yanukovich today, he, you choose him, will actually become a hostage of the situation. If one faction of your factions comes out of the majority, this majority is being scattered, and practically the government is being scattered. So there's a threat that we're filling the parliamentary crisis with a government crisis. The point is, can this majority work effectively? By the way, the government is now going to have to call off all the bills and resubmit them. After that, there will be no 15 deputies from the majority, and "Our Ukraine" will take, refrain, the opposition will not vote, and what will happen to the laws then? I mean, it's that this majority is a virtual majority, a bizarre majority, and it can't provide an effective mechanism for the functioning of power. And it's practically impossible to create a government. What's more, I'm going to tell you that a coalition government is the worst possible government, by the way. And if you want to know, we've already created the majority, and who destroyed it, this majority? Social Democrats: Medvedchuk, Tihypko They started sending Yushchenka away. And on the matter of the premiere, they destroyed most of them. Now we're back to working effectively, the Supreme Council, and what are we seeing again? The question of the Prime Minister is again raised. So we don't share these approaches to the formation of the majority and to the formation. And last but not least, in the whole world, the creation of most people is viewed as a positive thing, except for Ukraine. It's Ukrainian know-how. But what "how" does that mean?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, some of the people's deputies have been asked why I gave my word to the national deputy of Cherniak. The fact is that 45 minutes from the factions came out, there was time left, and people were written down. And the Rules say, "People's deputies," including factions. That's why I now give the floor to the People's Deputy Carmazin, the faction of our Ukraine. [[People's MP Melniczuk has given up his word]] Look how long it's been! Please! And don't teach me how to live. I say again, take your seats and prepare for the vote. For the time being, there's still three minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the nation, the distinguished, suffering people of Ukraine! You know what a sign question is today. Cards go down in the hall, cards go down. The thieving authorities are working. And we're stealing again. So we want to build a new state, a new government, on card thefts, we want to build a new government? And then I'll tell you, Your Honor, the well-being that we're talking about in the Donetsk region, on which it's built. I want you to remember where the nature of the free economic zones that worked as vacuum cleaners. I want you to answer, Anatoly Kirilovich, please tell me, and why are there four Obelenergo questions? Why is the question tied to 22 numbers? But because they're promised they're already, four Oblenergos, two banks, everything else is promised, and all the other Ukraine. All right, ladies and gentlemen, stop! Do not procreate Ukraine. In the Donetsk region, no 300 - grand court decisions have been executed. And now the colleagues are back from there. Viktor Fedorovich, 300,000 decisions not implemented by the name of Ukraine, for 2 and a half billion dollars! And you're telling us from this rostrum that that's what's going to happen to all of Ukraine. I don't want to live in Ukraine like this! I want to live in Ukraine, where the Constitution and the law rule! And there is no place for Prime Minister Yanukovic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to prepare for registration while I'm at it. Honorable colleagues, repulsion, national deputy Yavorowski. Calm down. The national deputy Yavorowski, his name was mentioned. In the meantime, I will announce people who are away or ill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u148	Reverend Catherine Timofievna, if you think I insulted you when I said you loved all the prime ministers, yes, I think that's just a compliment. I didn't mean to offend you at all. I wanted you, of course, to be one of the ones you supported to protect when it was taken. Because I didn't insult you, no one in this room likes you as much as I love you, Catherine Trophimian, especially Timothy, that you've been in the Supreme Council for 10 years now and you're sowing, and so forth. I thank you very much and I hug you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u149	Honorable National MPs, distinguished colleagues. Yeah, calm down, because I'm both left and right, and the centrists don't like me, but I'm going according to the rules. Everybody calm down. I read the commission I was given to find out where the national deputies were. And including me, I received a letter from our distinguished colleague, National Deputy Constantine Sitnik. "At this very responsible moment in the country's life and taking into account your own life's work experience, I ask you to do everything you can to ensure that there is no room for voting in the hall by missing MPs, sick people, sent abroad, etc. We take care of the honor, conscience and order of every MP." Accordingly, I declare that the national deputies who are on board are only taking official data. Anichuk, he's in the hall. Gerbrovsky, Omelchenko Grigory Omelyanovich, Polishchuk, Shevchuk Sergey from the faction of the People's Democratic Party. National deputies who are on vacation: Headman, Timoshenko National deputies for treatment: Stecko National MP Korsakov is present. The mosquito is present. Petrov is present. Musiak's on medication. Glasses are present. Verni Dubov is present. I'm all the data you gave me. Dear National Deputies! It's consistent with Article 85. Please, the Matthews Regulatory Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am obliged to announce the statements that have been made by the national deputies before this very important voting procedure, which we are about to proceed to. Statement by the National Deputies Soboljeva and Philenka: "We have found that in the Supreme Council Hall on November 21st, a state of 10 hours 30 minutes registered cards of the National Deputies Musiyaki and Chicago, who are on treatment. MacKeenko, card number 246, it's not in the room, and the card's working. Please remove these cards and provide information on other similar cases. There's a Seed outside." Respectfully, they're national deputies. The second statement from the People's Deputy Rudzkowski, who writes that at present since the faction "Our Ukraine" is not in the Stecko Hall, Greenow is in sick condition. I'm sorry. I will read what was given to the Rules Committee accordingly by some national MPs. It's a faction of political parties of industry and entrepreneurs in Ukraine and the Hard Ukraine. Gurey's on his way out. It's a faction of Democratic Initiatives. Dopkin's on his way.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Give me a chance to name it. I ask you to calm down, prepare for the vote. The vote will take place at any time. The results depend on you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u152	The People's Landing Group. The missing Sietch is on the way out. The faction of the People's Democratic Party. Peter is sick. It's a faction. Post-faction, excuse me, national MPs. Cassianov is on his way. Please don't let your cards run. It's a statement. I repeat, this is a statement from the People's Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to calm down. I think the Rules Committee had time to check who was in place and who wasn't. Not read the applications. According to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant approval for the appointment of Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovic Janukovič is put to the vote. [[Registration number 2412]] Turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[12:14:08]] For 234 "For" is 234, the decision is made. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! I would like to say hello to Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, and at the same time thank the government that worked with Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach. Please sit down. The factions, please. Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. For your consideration. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! Let's work maybe. Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u154	I'm deeply excited about this moment. But as I said in my report, I am well placed to work with this Parliament, and I am well placed to work with the entire Parliament. I believe that we have a nation alone, a nation alone, a nation that should work for this nation, for this people. I am grateful to all who have supported me, and I will carry out my duties as I have done in my life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u155	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, shall we continue our work or not? Then let's take a 15-minute break. Is there no objection? A break of 15 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, please come to the hall. Sit down, sit down, please. Take your seats, we'll vote. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. To make a decision, a draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings to meet the requirements of Ukraine’s environmental legislation is being drafted on December 25, this year. Reported to the national parliament of the Hare. Ivan Alexandrovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u157	Dear National Deputies! Parliamentary hearings about environmental law enforcement took place in this room in September. As a result of this hearing, the Supreme Council made a decision, that is, it was a government day, and the Supreme Council ruled on parliamentary hearings as a result of the day of government. And this regulation specifically states that in December we have to hold hearings in Parliament about compliance with environmental legislation. This problem is quite serious for several reasons. First, because Ukraine is in an ecological crisis. Secondly, the State budget is being formed, and we need to anticipate the appropriate funds to improve the situation. And thirdly, the following year will be held at Kiev’s fifth Pan - European Conference of Environment Ministers. And Ukraine must testify that we care for our citizens, that we care for the clean environment. So, given these three factors, we need to approve with you the draft decision to hold parliamentary hearings in December on environmental law enforcement. There are appropriate decisions, there are appropriate analyses, and everyone supports this decision. I would also like to support this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u158	It's a very important question. Vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u159	But there's no one to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u160	Please vote. Invite "Our Ukraine." Please take your seats, we vote. Turn on the system. Vote. [[12:43:16]] For 172 The decision is not taken. The factions. Well, look who's gone and how they vote. Look at this. So you have to ask in a minority where most people. Are you still insisting on the vote? Vote. Please have a seat. Faction leaders, I'm asking you to get a job in the hall. Turn on the system, we're voting. [[12:44:43]] For 234 234, decision taken. Draft decree to hold parliamentary hearings on the impact of rural reform. Also on December 25th. National MP Leszczenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u161	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! You know, for the last 10 years, agricultural reform has been going on in the countryside. The main issue is the President of Ukraine's decrees. The legislative framework, unfortunately too slows down and does not catch up with these processes. In the process of reforming rural relations, the nation’s productive forces have been hit by a devastating, practically ruined production base. The large masses of the grill are not processed, weeds. A sharp decline in fertilizer intake, consumerism, and lack of symptom have led to a sharp deterioration in soil fertility. The livestock’s head has been severely reduced. Because of the lack of technology, production is done by primitive means. Rural reform has political, economic, and social consequences, and the wealth of dilapidation has gradually gained considerable size. The economic downturn has a major impact on the general crisis in the state, in the village of mass unemployment, people can't heal, they can't get money, the village is downgrading, people are asking us, voters: help. That is why I propose to bring to the parliamentary hearing the implications of the reform in the country to deal with all these processes and to put order in place for the benefit of our state. When we vote, we will support millions of our peasants. Anyone who does not vote will vote against the peasants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u162	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Prepare to vote. Turn the system on. Vote. Change the vote. Please tell me, do you have a objection? Give your word from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u163	Honorable Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, was discussed at the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. The main argument put forward by the authors of this regulation is that agricultural reforms are not in line with legislation. I cited the arguments of the people's deputies, convinced them that the reform of agriculture was carried out in accordance with Ukraine's laws, and the President's decrees, the government's decrees only aimed at ensuring the organisation of the implementation of Ukraine's laws, including Decrees 5 of Ukraine since 18 December 1990 on land reform, the Land Code 3 of 13 March 1992, Ukraine's laws on agriculture, collective agricultural enterprises, on business in Ukraine, on business and other legislative acts adopted in the first year of the independence of our state. This question was heard on October 18th at the Joint College of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the State Committee on Land Resources, the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, together with the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, where balanced decisions were taken to activate the process. So you, honourable national deputies, are asked to reject the draft of this decision, as adopted by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u164	Thank you. From the Committee of Tomic Ivan Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u165	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, at its September session, discussed the issue of "the state of the agricultural sector of the economy". A group has been created and is recognized as a crisis in the agricultural sector. Accordingly, today specific mechanisms for overcoming the crisis have been developed. First. This is a balance of intersectoral relations in the agricultural sector in other areas where the introduction of a legally based lower and upper limit is based on the type of agricultural production. The other one. This is financial collateral, including long-term lending. Third. This is the stability of tax policy and the transition from a fixed tax to a single land tax. Four. Further formation of a private structure in agriculture and protection of the peasant’s interests These are the conceptual foundations that the Committee believes should be laid down in the basic law, within the framework of 17 bills that should be drafted by agrarian politics in Ukraine and the development of the doctrine of agrarian politics in Ukraine. There is work to be done on these issues today. And soon the relevant bills will be submitted to your consideration. With regard to the substantive question raised by the decision, the committee had three questions. First project introduced by the People's Deputies Lechchenk, Samojlik. The second suggestion was that in the year, in a part of the property relationship, this confirms the Scientific and Experimental Authority, to consider the protection of property owners' rights. And the third question. To reject the first proposed draft, the Committee decided by a majority vote to reject the Supreme Council ruling proposed by the people’s deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u166	I mean, Ivan Fedorovich, the committee against holding a hearing on this issue? Right. Turn on the microphone Lechchenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u167	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Hennadia. Andryovich! Our agenda was not for a representative of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. I don't understand why you gave him your word without listening to the committee. That's the first one. The other one. Indeed, the matter was considered on a committee in the presence of Roman Schmidt. And I must state that the representative of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, as well as some of the members of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, are afraid to bring this matter to parliamentary hearing. Perhaps there is so much confusion in the village that they can’t figure it out by themselves and don’t want people to come out of the region and tell us what to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u168	As for Roman Schmidt, he was given a word from the government to give us as much information as possible on the matter. Please, Samuel. And we're done, we're gonna vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u169	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! I am generally impressed that today the Ukrainian national deputies are virtually losing the right to hold parliamentary hearings. And Mr. Schmidt is just so that a positive decision will not be made. I want to go to the heads of all the MPs and factions, to all the major MPs, and we meet every fourth week, we have public receptions, and 90 percent of the people come to us with land issues. What is left on the property certificate? Where do our lands go, and so forth? Why aren't we getting anything? Where there was a social base of a village that was created by collective enterprises. And I think that whoever is voting against today's debate in this particular section of the question is just against making order in our agriculture. I request a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u170	Thank you. Alexander Alexander Frost's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u171	Gennady Andriyovich, I ask you to express yourself. First of all, when you get a big mail, the vast majority of the letters in this mail refer to the bazaar that is now being created around the earth. And we need to seriously consider the causes of the chaos that is now taking place in this most important issue for Ukraine. I support the proposal to include this issue in the parliamentary hearing on December 25th. And there's more. For the sake of yours and the MPs. The Socialist Party faction has now been reduced to one man. Sergey Kiroyantz is expelled from the faction unanimously. I'd like you to have that in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u172	Turn on Chubarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u173	Thank you, Hennadi Hennadiovich. Dear National Deputies! I want to say that those who do not currently support the holding of parliamentary hearings are. the political aspect of this problem emerges. But there are so many legal problems in this problem, so many economic problems. There are processes in the village that we can't help but look at here, and I would ask very much for your support, despite the fact that this is a proposal from a communist. Support and we'll figure out what Dercomme is doing there and what the Ministry of Agrarian Politics is doing in the country, and what's going on there, and where the peasant explosions are being prepared. We've got to back it up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u174	Dear fellow national MPs! Let's finish the discussion. As for the question of the village, very important, very acute questions. They should be discussed here in the hall. Let's put it to a vote. Please turn on the system. [[12:56:29]] For 155 155, no decision taken. The factions, please. Katerina Seminowna, Vladimir Alexiyovich, let's work with factions. Turn on the Yavorowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u175	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I want you to look around for a moment and understand what happened. I can't understand the implications of this and Mr. Schmidt, why are you afraid of these hearings? Ukraine is an agricultural state. The only thing we have left is our land that's already being ripped off our feet today. And we don't want to hear that question today. I am simply asking, since the deputies have not yet come forward after their great victory today, to put the matter to the vote again and listen to it. And not just the consequences of reform, but what to do tomorrow. And P.S. That bouquet of flowers that I was about to hand over in the event of Janukovich's defiance, I didn't give him, I handed him to the faction, to the brilliant Ukrainian singer Mrs. Oksani Bilozer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u176	Anyone else insists on voting again? Let's put it to a vote. [[12:58:24]] For-187 For - 187, no decision is taken. Let's move on. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u177	Enlighten the factions. It is proposed to vote on the draft decree on the day of the Government of Ukraine in January 2003 on submerging land. Ukrainian National Deputy Desert Tenko Valeriy Pavlovich Is there a desert tank? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE No, I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u178	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich? Ivan Aleksandrovich, you're reporting on this issue with respect to submerged lands. The committee removes or leaves the issue of submerging land?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u179	Honorable national MPs, committee and group of deputies are practically all being initiated by the Government Day with the question of measures to defuse the effects of submergment. Flooding is a very difficult problem for Ukraine. If we look at the west of Ukraine, especially at Carpathians, we know that two years later, or every year, there are many kinds of floods that cause very great damage to people, to nature. Similarly today, we can talk about submergment in southern Ukraine. Meliorative systems are out of order, channels are being disrupted today, and there are very large submerged areas. But we need to think about something else today -- that not only are the material benefits being destroyed, but the earth itself is being destroyed. Because that's the salinity going, it's the destruction of the soil itself. So I would ask you very much to support today's government day with such an order of the day. This is a very serious question. It also applies to Hersonskin, and it applies to Santa Claus, and it applies to Restoration, and so does the Left Bank. So I appeal once again to all the people's deputies, regardless of their affiliation to the faction, to vote in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u180	Vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[13:01:37]] For 324 324, decision taken. Your attention is given to the draft decree on living for 2003, the Cabinet of Ministers project. Reported Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Social Policy Soldatenko Mikola Alexiyovich. Please. Please, Mikola Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u181	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, there is a draft law on subsistence minimum for 2003, which is drafted in accordance with the framework law on subsistence minimum, and according to this, the Cabinet of Ministers develops an annual subsistence minimum, and the Supreme Council approves it. As you know, the minimum cost of living for one person and for the main demographic groups is developed from food sets, non-food products and service sets approved by social partnership scientific and civic expertise, and according to the methodology. A specific bill that is being tabled today and the calculated subsistence minimum according to the actual prices that have arisen today and the projected inflation index by the end of the year and the following year. According to the calculations, the minimum cost per person per month was 340 dollars and less than the amount approved in 2002, so the government is proposing not to change the minimum cost of living so as not to lower the level of social security associated with the minimum cost of living. This bill has been considered by the Social Policy Committee and is supported by the Scientific and Experimental Authority and is also supporting this bill, so, honourable national MPs, please support this bill. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u182	Have a seat, please. The word is given to Hari Vasil Grigorovich. While he's on his way, it's Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u183	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Gennady Andryovich! Dear colleagues! We are now considering with you a bill that has the right to make a government, a government and only a government. I repeat, this is a bill that only the government makes. Come on, I'm asking you questions for myself. There's no government, it's not formed yet. Do you and I have the right to consider one of the most important bills today? That's the first one. The other one. I don't think we're going to be looking at a second-reading bill today, because once again there's no one to introduce this bill, the government has changed today. And the whole budget is being built because the draft budget is being built on this bill that we're currently considering with you. And so I'd like to hear from both the chairman and the prime minister who already is, do they confirm the bill that we're proposing today to vote on so that we don't have to look at it today, and tomorrow the government will call it all off and we'll be spending time again to review the bills that the government will re-implement? Please turn on Black Vladimir Kirilovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. I want to deny to you that we should not continue the legislative process. Governments change so often that we should not pay attention. Parliament is continuing its work. We define a legislative field for the government, we have a bill, it's passed through the committees. And we're working on it. I think we should do the same with the budget. And we don't have to stop the legislative process. I propose to vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u185	Thank you. Vassil Grigorovitch, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, the bill was considered at a meeting of the Committee yesterday, and, oddly enough, we agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers' proposal on subsistence minimums because it was drafted in accordance with the Housing Minimum Act. There is a certain methodology that requires this method. In accordance with this methodology, calculations have been made. That's why we can love this number, we can't love it, it's objective and we have to vote it. Another matter was that proposals had been made that were due, and the Housing Minimum Act indicated that individual rules could be revised every five years. Therefore, we have already submitted our proposals to the Committee, more precisely, we will be ready soon. its proposals to amend, supplement and calculate the minimum of living in order to, say, eliminate such things as the calculation of inflation based on prices of 425 names, and where the minimum of living is calculated there are only 200 with extra sets. Let us say that the draft Housing Code and standards such as housing, education should already be introduced because they are paid, medical services that require additional expenses and family budgets. But this can and will have to be done when amending the Budget Act. The Committee has therefore taken a positive decision and requests you to support and approve in the budget the subsistence minimum presented by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u187	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please turn on the Zibank microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear Vassil Grigorovich, you and I are taking the lead in the Social Committee of the Supreme Council. And we may love or dislike this number, but someone by that figure can live. In addition, we have our Ukrainian know-how, the so-called guaranteed subsistence minimum, which is not guaranteed at all in the sum of 80 dollars. So what is our perspective on the adoption of the subsistence minimum and the normal and guaranteed so-called minimum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u189	Peter Stepanović, well, this question can certainly be referred to the issue under consideration, and it can be looked at a little further. Indeed, we are in such a situation that we do not comply with the requirements of the Constitution and do not comply with the Act on State Social Standards. Yeah, it's a shame when we put in such a know-how, but it's called a minimum-of-living level. Let's say to this day, the Government is proposing to mark it at 80 bracelets. That is, if, in accordance with the Constitution, we have to establish all social benefits at the level of an approved subsistence minimum, we begin to dance from the level of security of the subsistence minimum. But that's question number two. And as I return to the first question, once again, what we have with you is the methodology and there is, say, arithmetical work of computations and the figure of the final one that the Cabinet of Ministers presents to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u190	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, do you have a question or a statement? Turn on Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Solidarity, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! The question is included in the "ready" section. This means that the issue today should be considered according to the rules of first reading according to the Rules. This meant that time would be given for the reporter and that time would be given to answer the question for the reporter. Then we'll have a full discussion, full discussion, not short talk. I'll point it out. It's under the Rules. And in fact, according to Article 46 of the Constitution, you know that pensions, other types of social assistance and payments are not lower than the minimum of living. We are asked to lower our inflation index for 2003 to not less than 160 percent. So we're reducing the cost of living, which is now being proposed to set, compared to what was in 2002. What, then, do we do with our hands, distinguished national deputies? Stop and discuss this matter under the Rules, otherwise the people will come here and judge us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u192	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! People or representatives of him here, in the hall. As for the consideration of this matter, please keep an eye on it. There was a reporter on the rostrum, now a co-reporter. If you have any questions, please ask Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! I don't want to hurt anyone. But I would like to recommend a beginning and a look at the Housing Minimum Act, then recall all the sins that exist and that are enough in our Ukraine. With regard to the level of pensions for a subsistence minimum, there is one question. As far as benefits are concerned. The level of subsistence minimum is another issue. But there is a specific methodology, and according to this methodology, calculations are made. We made parallel calculations to our committee, entrusted the secretariat and the people's deputies. And they commissioned the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, and all these three calculations came up with the figures presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is how to bring the level of pensions, scholarships and all the rest to the minimum of living is a completely different issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u194	Please turn on Black Vladimir Kirilovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u195	Dear Vassil Georgiyovich, we all yearn for a minimum of living. But there are certain realities and conditions. I support this desire, and I want it. I have a question. If we stop this process today, if we don't adopt in the first reading a minimum of living law for 2003, will it be worse? Whether there will be a lower subsistence minimum remains, and our desire for a higher minimum may be futile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u196	Dear colleagues! We have very often in our country processes that are diametrically opposite to what they should be. The point is, the minimum of living, I repeat, is objective, it doesn't depend on our emotions, it depends on our desires. That's the first one. But the subsistence minimum and minimum wage, you and I had to approve long before the budget process, so that they would become budget norms. Unfortunately, this has happened. Even if we do not take the minimum of living with you today, it will be wrong, it will be completely wrong, it will not affect the adoption of the budget and everything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u197	Rudzkowski Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u198	For the future, again, everything depends on objectivity, changing the law on subsistence minimum. If we make it stricter, expanding the list of goods and services and products included in the list will, of course, result in the calculation of living minimums much higher than today. But this must enter into the body of the minimum-of-living law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u199	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. After listening to your speech, you also agree that the method of determining the minimum of living is imperfect, and 361 bracelets is the abuse of the Ukrainian people of determining the minimum of living at a time when the municipal payments of 120 bracelets, when the cost of living, transportation is still 300 dollars. I'm talking to you and the national MPs, the living minimum for today is an estimate of 550 dollars for economists. And I propose not to vote on this issue today, to assign a new government, to see how socially oriented it is, to develop a new methodology and to make proposals. And it'll be clear what position the new government will take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, I fully agree that the methodology is lagging behind in life and that it needs to be changed, that it needs to be changed in the law on subsistence minimums, that is what our committee is already doing. But I want to say two. Of course, 365 bracelets for a working person are small, but it's not really about the figure, but it's about the fact that we didn't even get close to that figure by 50 percent on our social benefits. Therefore, if we set the number 550, 800, and leave the level of subsistence minimum 80 bracelets, based on the financial possibilities, as the Cabinet of Ministers has always told us from this rostrum, nothing will change. Because the subsistence minimum is a social standard, the other thing is how much we are able to fulfill this social standard so that wages, pensions, scholarships, child benefits are kept to a minimum. It is therefore not a matter of numbers but of a catastrophic situation in which the economy cannot meet the requirements of the Constitution and the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u201	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for discussion has been spent with you, that is, asking questions. For discussion, the word is given to Kirilenko. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatolyevich is there? None. Insomnia Boris Yakovich? Yukhnov's Igor Raphailovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u202	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Dear Chief, honourable Members, this law has neither financial burden nor budgetary burden; it is a law that is simply a statistical fixation. And the next law on minimum wage is important. So I suggest that we don't waste time, we vote this law as protocol, and we move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u203	That's right, Igor Raphaelovich. We're getting ready to vote. Please sit down, sit down. Vote. Vote. [[13:19:33]] For 249 Decision taken. For your consideration, a draft law on setting the minimum wage for 2003 is proposed. Reports the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Hara Vasil Grigorovich. Please, Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I recall that we have recently considered with you the draft minimum wage bill for 2003. You remember the sum of 270 bracelets a month. At that time, you decided to re-read the bill. When we worked in the committee on this draft for re-reading, we based our previous decision with you on Government Day, when we considered overcoming poverty, where you and I unanimously adopted a decree to propose to the Cabinet of Ministers when considering the minimum wage for 2003, to set it not below 65 per cent of the subsistence minimum. We have considered the bill that has been proposed and which we have just voted on, proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, the subsistence minimum, the figure of 365 bracelets, the subsistence minimum for the working person, the figure of 60 per cent of it, the figure of 237 bracelets, very objective, and, in my opinion, very real. Therefore, our committee adopted a unanimous vote in favour of this proposal and I ask you to support, adopt Bill 1305 and approve a minimum wage of 237 bracelets, which will be 65 per cent, and in accordance with the poverty eradication strategy, with all the programmes we have in the State: to bring all social norms to a minimum as soon as possible. Well, at least we're going to cross a 50 per cent barrier to the minimum wage to the minimum wage, and the minimum wage is such a standard for wage formation and the formation of a tariff network in our State. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u205	Is there a question for Vasil Georgievich? Yes. Please sign up. Lighten up. Samofal Gennady Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u206	Samofalov, European Choice MP. Please tell me, have you calculated how this will affect the draft budget that is currently being prepared to set such a minimum wage? Is there any means or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u207	The question is very simple and very difficult. In our view, if the proposals made by the Communist faction on the income and expenditure portion of the budget were taken into account, these funds would be sufficient to address the problem of the average minimum wage of 237 bracelets. But I think even in the current budget, the Cabinet of Ministers, if desired, could surely find the means. That's the first one. And the second. Because when we discuss minimum wage, we mean, for some reason, only respected budgeters. Yes, we respect the budget, it's a decent industry, a decent sector. But why don't we think about the people who make money for the budget, the ones we work for? Why are we stopping wage development there? Moreover, you know that there is the President's decree to reform wages, there are our orders with you, and I suggest that we simply be consistent and make such decisions once again to be agreed upon with earlier decisions. The amounts are small and can be found in order to establish the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u208	Thank you. Nightshade Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u209	The Hard Ukraine faction, 160 constituency. Your Honor, I'm sitting across from you. Please tell me, as I continue to talk, you said that the amounts here are small. I'm going to continue, well, how is this going to respond to the overall social support of a state of low-income population -- wages, social assistance, pensions in context? If you could just give the generals the numbers so that the voters can hear, what is the idea of this bill and this sum that you're talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u210	Well, I can't relate, let's say, to a living minimum to a situation that may arise on retirement. One thing I know is that the adoption of a minimum wage of 237 bracelets will be a further step in overcoming poverty and will make it easier to breathe to those of our citizens who are 60 per cent of those who are on the most modest basis, below the poverty line. That's the first one. Second. We must bear in mind that, as we increase the minimum wage, we mean that this increase in the very good part of the income tax will return, or, more precisely, not return, but fill in budgets, local budgets and enable us to decide: budget salaries, pensions and so on. So the process is interconnected.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u211	Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u212	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vassili Georgievic, of course, I fully share your position, support and believe that the entire room will support your proposals today. For everyone knows that increasing purchasing power is a good incentive for economic development. Moreover, statistics show that if income and wage growth are available, so to speak, it is inevitable that gross domestic product will increase. But I would like to ask you a question, knowing that you are the leader of trade unions in the Donetsk region, would you please say that you share your position as a trade union?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u213	Of course they do. Because on the first reading, when considering the subsistence minimum of 270 griven, they were proposals and the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, and in particular its President, because he was a subject of the legislative initiative, Alexander Nikolaevich Stojan. Trade unions therefore believe that social norms should be brought as close as possible to those reflected in both the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. With regard to purchasing power, of course, there are many useful things to say about the increase in both the level of minimum wages and wages as such.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u214	Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u215	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ukraine’s socialist party in the pre-election program suggested that the minimum level of living and minimum wage should be increased to two living levels. And of course, we're going to vote in favour of increasing the minimum wage, but I have two questions about that. Please tell me, is the figure of 270 dollars of minimum wage based on budget calculations? And if it isn't laid down, how do we get out of this colossus if we vote 270 now and there's 165 in the budget? What are we going to do? What additional measures will we take to make sure that when people learn that their wages are going to increase, they are actually paid. I mean the shadow sector, I mean the limitation of monopolies, oligarchs of power and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u216	Sergey Nikolaevich, you are asking a question that we are constantly asking the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers who are reporting to us on the committee. You know, I'm a fifth-year national deputy, and the fifth year of all, I hear that the state doesn't have the money. We have an obligation with you to define such a legal field to meet those requirements, I repeat once again, both in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine that we have enacted with you. If we keep coming from the Cabinet of Ministers' comments that there are no funds in the state, I think we will have nothing good in our country if we trample on the ground. Look what's going on. Clearly, the subsistence minimum is an objective level, it is an arithmetical calculation, and the minimum wage is a standard that allows a person to live or live normally or to degrade as a physical being and as a spiritual being. Of course, it is better for the Cabinet of Ministers to leave the minimum wage at 165 bracelets what they place in their letter that they ask to leave at that level. And the things that happen to us in the 2003 budget are happening. With regard to social issues, there is not only an increase, but every year we are told that the budget is socially focused. Our 2003 budget, the project that we have adopted, is almost 30 per cent lowering the funding of social services compared to the 2002 budget. Therefore, it is of course very beneficial to leave the minimum wage requested by the Cabinet of Ministers at 165 bracelets. But we are here with you people's deputies to encourage the Cabinet of Ministers to work, meet the demands or, say, the slogan Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, who said that man must be at the centre of all care. We must define a minimum of human needs, and the Cabinet of Ministers must look for economic opportunities, which must be done to make money, these money in the budget, and not to share the things that appear in the State itself, there is not much reason to do so. Therefore, I believe that we simply have to raise this plan, and let the Cabinet of Ministers think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u217	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Alexandrov's Ally Alexandrovny, please. The next one is Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! Dear Presidium! I think we will have no doubt here today that this law is certainly necessary to support the Committee's proposals, which is now reported by Deputy Hara. I asked a question based on the statistics I asked for in preparation for this presentation. It is quite clear that people's income growth, wage growth, is an indicator of the economic well-being of the State. Moreover, there is a direct link between wage and human income growth and gross domestic product growth. We see with you a budget from year to year submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, where there are virtually no capital investments. And we say very often in this room that we need to increase capital investments and see in this a serious lever to increase the gross domestic product of our State. On the other hand, there is another indicator that we are not talking about here for some reason, when we are considering the budget and when we vote for it, this indicator is population income growth and wage growth. So look at the statistics. As wages increase, the purchasing capacity of the population increases, the production of goods is inevitably increasing, of course, primarily of the priority goods, and the economy of Ukraine is rapidly being rolled up. In 1998, when we considered the budget resolution in this room, that is what we were looking at in shaping our budget requirement. We believed that increasing the income of the population should inevitably lead to an increase in the volume of industrial products produced in Ukraine. And I ask you, fellow MPs, to support Hara's proposal and vote in favour of raising the minimum wage to 374 bracelets. 237 bracelets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u219	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! I will certainly support the project that was implemented by the People's Deputy from our faction, from Our Ukraine, by the leader of the trade unions, Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich. It predicts an increase in the minimum wage almost one and a half times. This bill, which has just been reported. Pluses and minuses. Plus, what we need to do is get close to the minimum of living, although the minimum of living, I'm absolutely sure, we've set a low plank. Minus. I was just watching, studying the lists for the new premiere. Adam Vasilovich Chikal is sick, sick far away from Kiev. It turns out he voted for the Prime Minister today. I refer to both the chairman and the Regulatory Committee. Please check and remove this voice and tell all Ukraine that there will be no government in fraud. But with regard to a specific bill. If the divided National Bank was a coin of exchange today, we have to make it clear today that inflation is going to go and we have to make a clear statement about what's going to happen. Let's get the economy out of the shadow sphere. This is the approach to getting out of the shadow sphere and predicting a minimum wage of 237 dollars on January 1st. But there is only one question and a warning. I want to know what's going to happen in the village. How will they meet these requirements of legislation? And maybe we'll have to do some differentiation. I'm talking to government experts: what do we do there? In industry, yes, of course, it has to be done, but this needs to be done simultaneously with lowering and balancing and canceling all the benefits, especially those in the Donetsk region in the common economic zones, which are granted to all businesses today, the benefits need to be abolished, all the government's decisions on benefits and then we will get closer to some result. Otherwise, we will have very difficult consequences, although I urge today to vote in favour of this law and to get the economy out of the shadow sphere, where today more than 50 percent of the economy is spinning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u221	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Black Vladimir Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u222	Dear National Deputies! Today, we are adopting extremely important social laws. I am convinced that the views of our voters are now in the session room. The subsistence minimum is the orientation. We've already passed the law, of course, it would be better if we raised the bill a little bit higher than we did, but we did raise it a little bit. A minimum wage is a standard that is budgeted. It would be normal for a minimum wage to be at the minimum wage. It's a norm, a constitutional norm. But unfortunately, at the moment we can't make a deal with the government, I don't think we're going to be able to agree with the new government to do that. So we have to take steps to get the minimum wage closer to the minimum wage. In this law, this is a step that we would like to make this step broader once again, but the question of financial resources is very acute. Better to move in the right direction than to dream of unattainable and ultimately our voters will have a lower standard of living than they could be. So I urge you to be realistic and support the minimum wage bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u223	Thank you. Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, are you insisting on the performance? Please, one minute, out of the way. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u224	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, as I said before, and the party, when it went to the elections, clearly supported the issue of increasing the subsistence minimum and we're actually tasking ourselves with making the minimum wage double the cost of living, because a normal person can't live, but the same minimum wage that is today. But what's being proposed today, 270 dollars, is actually twice the current rate. So I would like to say in connection with this, Gennady Andriyovich, that we have a completely distorted interpersonal relationship. Today, we have a technician at school and a young teacher who practically receives the same salary. For example, I would like this 270 minimum wage to be tied to a minimum pension, to increase pensions. Similarly, we need to make changes and tax citizens' incomes, or without that, the same figure will not do anything. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will vote on this bill. At the same time, we asked these pension - related questions, changes in interpersonal relationships, and so forth. And of course, we need to establish the basic principles of the socio-economic development of the state in order to get the money. And in general, I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u225	Thank you. The draft Law 1305 on the establishment of minimum wage for 2003 is on the basis of the vote. Please turn the system on. [[13:40:30.]] For 269 269, factions. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, let us move on to another issue of the day’s order. From the replica, please turn on Harry Vasil Grigorovitch's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u226	Dear Gennady Andreevich, distinguished colleagues! Well, it's 270 here twice. 270 is what you and I looked at on our first reading. Thank you for supporting the bill, there's a sum of 237 bracelets of living minimum. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to put it in place, to adopt it as a whole, because this law is necessary to continue the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u227	There's a procedure, let's put this bill to the vote next week. Draft State Budget Act, second reading, 2003 Ukraine’s Finance Minister Jusko Igor Olegovich will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u228	Honourable Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, the Cabinet of Ministers drafted the draft law "On the State Budget of Ukraine for 2003" and submitted it to the Supreme Council for its consideration on 3 November of this year. This bill is prepared based on the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council and the main directions of budgetary policy for 2003. The main directions identified were the complex budgeting conditions for 2003 related to unreformed tax legislation, peak debt burdens on the budget, non-resolving the problem of socio-culturalism and social security. In connection with this government, steps have been taken to resolve the issues mentioned. Most of the proposals involved changes to legislation, such as taxation. In time, between the submission of the draft budget and the second reading, only two laws have been adopted by the Supreme Council -- taxation of tax goods and the export of junk, which have a real positive impact on the income of the budget. Their adoption allowed for an increase in the income of the budget for the following year by 267 million. the bracelet while it is being processed for second reading. What about the refinement of the revenue forecast and the financing of the State Budget project for the following year? As a result of the laws adopted, real resources, the government considers it possible to increase the income of the budget in general by 1.8 billion. Money, including a total fund of 1 billion. The money and the special fund are 0.8 billion. That's right. A separate proposal of the Supreme Council, voted in the first reading on the suspension of article 22, paragraph 22.3, of the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation, was supported. This makes it possible to increase the income tax on companies by 400 million dollars as a result of the suspension of the aid in part of the investment in construction of housing for military personnel. In addition, the general fund is increasing by nearly 150 million dollars and, accordingly, the special budget fund is falling in line with the proposal made by the Committee on Budgeting for the Purposely Assignment of One and a half percent of this tax on the construction of housing for military personnel released to the reserve. Proposals for appropriate changes to the Income Taxation Act are included in article 56 of the Public Budget Act 2003. An increase of 100 million is estimated by the oil - producing excise assembly instead of the 438 million dollars proposed by the budget committee. The reason why the Committee's proposals are not taken fully into account is that they were based on statistics on the consumption of excise goods. The government, on the other hand, was based on the volume of their production, since the congregation’s payments were made in the production of petroleum products, or the administration of their place of production. The correctness of our calculations is also confirmed by the trend of this year with regard to these revenues. Moreover, on the basis of an analysis of the actual comings of the current year and the proposals of the Committee on Budget Affairs, the following revenue has been increased: payments for the use of national-level numerals -- 10 million dollars, funds received for consular action -- 22 million dollars, port administration -- 6.4 million dollars, customs -- 6 million dollars, revenues from sales of land -- 10 million, and local budgets -- over 90 million dollars, payments to the Fund for Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities -- by 20 million dollars. To carry out paragraph 50 of the Supreme Council's mandate, the Special Fund of the State Budget is included in the application of the allowance to the current electricity and heat tariff of 746 million dollars. At the same time, there are a number of proposals made by the Committee on Budgets that the Cabinet of Ministers cannot agree with for reasons of unreasonableness or the negative impact of their implementation on the economic development of the State as a whole or on its individual sectors. The government expressed a clear position on these issues when discussing budget conclusions in the first reading of the draft law. In principle, we cannot agree with the increase in the value added tax, including 1 billion dollars for defaulting on late repayment of this tax on exporters. It's not economically justified, according to the government, and it's a proposal for an increase in revenue for an additional share of government revenue in the amount of 1 billion dollars. This additional tax burden is only or exclusively discriminatory for state-owned enterprises, reduces their competitiveness, increases their tax debt. However, a separate consideration needs to be asked about the possibility of removing part of the profits of only state-owned enterprises that benefit from the monopoly. Such a decision should be balanced, economically sound, taking into account the innovation and investment plans of these enterprises and taking into account social or social security in the functioning of the enterprises concerned. It takes, in fact, some time. The committee proposes to increase the number of payers at the expense of the additional underprivileged. According to the government, receiving this resource in the following year is at least not very real, based on the structure and nature of such a misnomer. In total, 81 percent of the debt that can be incurred by enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u229	Excuse me, Igor Olegovich, how long will it take? All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u230	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. However, legislation has not created the necessary mechanisms for reducing undernutrition. Part of such suggestions. I'm asking for a budget report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u231	Keep going, it's a second reading of the budget, it's a very important thing. You've got time, keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u232	Part of such proposals in government bills to improve tax administration. They have not yet been accepted by the Supreme Council. Thus, frankly, the government does not have sufficient reason to count or count on the possible reduction of the mortgage in the following year. In principle, it is also impossible to accept the inclusion of revenue from the privatization of state property to the composition of the State budget. The transfer of revenues to privatization of 2.1 billion dollars, the income of the budget and the creation of an artificial surplus of 658 million dollars, as proposed by the committee, means an increase of almost 1.7 billion dollars in government borrowing. This will actually mean that it is proposed to move away from the principle of non-deficiency of the state budget general fund, to return to deficit practices and to increase government debt. We can't do that either. In addition, transfers to the General Fund of the State Budget proposed by the Task Force’s Task Force, such as the Geological Survey Congregation, are not supported, for example, by 50 percent of the executive congregation. A more balanced approach requires, in our view, a decision to suspend the tax benefits of military personnel. We are absolutely confident that this issue needs to be addressed in a comprehensive way, at the same time as tax cuts and real estimates of the amount of these revenues. Moreover, it is impossible to talk about the selective approach to the professions that are currently using this benefit. Taxation on added value at zero rate of gas sales transactions by the consumer, apart from population and budget institutions, is also not sufficiently justified. It can't be a tool that leads to an increase in income, which is absolutely groundless. The introduction of zero gas rates can create a precedent that will lead to similar actions in other sectors of the economy and. the VAT reporting system. The application of a zero VAT rate provides for the transfer of liabilities from NAK Naftogaz to Ukraine and gas consumers, which increases administrative costs for both the tax service and increases the likelihood of this tax evasion on the basis of the use of tax bills as well as other tax evasion schemes. Nor can we agree with the overestimation of the budget estimates of 618 million dollars. The arrival of grants, gifts, and funds at your disposal is entirely wrong to plan, based on the fact that they are received in the current year. These are events that happen one time and they should not be repeated in the future in these institutions. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance relied on the proposals made by the chief executives in the drafting of the State Budget for Second Reading Act. Despite the above arguments, the daily work of the Ministry of Finance and the Budget Committee to determine the forecast of the budget for the following year, the committee suggested in its conclusions that it increase it by 6.3 billion dollars, or 13.7 percent, to the government on 3 November. At the same time, the increase in the revenue of the State Budget project for the following year together in the general and special fund defined by the Budget Committee compared to the expected figures for the current year increases by 28.7 per cent or 11.7 billion dollars, and we understand that, in the context of unadopted, unreformed tax legislation, under the condition of purely economic growth, this task is totally unrealistic. A few words, taking into account the time limit on the expenditure of the budget project. In the process of developing the budget, taking into account the Committee's proposals, the general budget of the State budget project has been reduced by a total of 130 million dollars, of which 100 million are government debt and 30 million after the Cabinet of Ministers' Reserves. In general, the additional budget resources in the general fund, based on the increase in income, the return on loan and the reduction of expenditure, have made up 1.3 billion dollars, which is proposed to be distributed as follows: 550 million dollars are expenses that are targeted at building military personnel's homes if we suspend the operation of this benefit in Article 56. Over 700 million are non-targeted expenditure, 350 million of which are coal sector expenditure, 150 million are local budget issues, 150 million are pension funds for various pension schemes, the rest, about 70 million, for other priority expenditure. At the same time, we cannot agree with the Supreme Council's proposals to cut government budget spending on separate government-specific targets. In terms of inter-budget relations. An increase of 150 million dollars in local budget expenditure, which is included in the determination of inter-budget transfers, is aimed at the following: the acquisition of medicines - 30 million dollars, the subsidy from the State budget to provide benefits to the population for the acquisition of solid fuel and spent gas - over 21 million dollars. Subsidies from the state budget are included to ensure that coal-derived housing companies are transferred to utility property of 50 million dollars. The inclusion of an additional grant from the State budget in excess of the sums, the increase in 2003 income estimates compared to the corresponding figures in the current year, at the same rate of expenditure of 40.2 million dollars; the provision of assistance to low-income families is considered a subsidy from the State budget corresponding to the Supreme Council law adopted in October of this year and the budget conclusions. Also in line with the proposals approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a legislative settlement on the establishment of a local police force, expenditure on the maintenance of individual militia units has been transferred from the local to the national budget of 214.8 million dollars. In closing, I'd like to say a few words of general summary. Thus, a second-reading bill on the state budget for the following year is proposed to determine the income of 49 billion dollars, of which a total of 38.6 billion dollars is in the fund, and to set the marginal deficit of the special government budget fund of 0.8 billion dollars at the zero deficit of the general fund. It should be noted that when the draft State Budget Act 2003 was finalized, from available financial resources, a number of truly important state-wide priority programmes remained unresolved. The Cabinet of Ministers believes that the increase in expenditure on these programmes can only be effected if bills are passed that increase the income of the state budget. Introducing a budget-based draft of the State Budget 2003 Act. The Cabinet of Ministers is asking to receive it in a second reading. The draft ruling was registered for 2000/p4 from 3 November and 2002 for this reason. With regard to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared by the Committee on Budget Affairs at number 2000/p5 of 20.11 of the current year, it should be noted that, first of all, that such a draft decision is not provided for by the Code of Budget, only a draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers may be considered under article 43 in the second reading. In doing so, the budget articles and inter-budget relations must be voted on. So once again, I would like to point out that the Budget Code does not allow any alternatives to government law to the textal articles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m0.u233	Thank you. Will there be questions? Let's do it this way. Please sign in. Lighten up. And after the break, we will continue to consider the matter. Do we agree? A break of 16 hours is announced.
