ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please sit down and we'll prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:28]] Registered -369 There are 369 national deputies registered in the hall, and the evening session is publicized. Everyone will vote for themselves. Please, Matthew's microphone from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues! I took the floor on the issue of compliance with the Supreme Council Rules. When I pointed out this to a very important point, by voting on the draft to grant approval for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I informed about the statements that came from a number of our colleagues regarding the warning of possible violations in carrying out this procedure, some of the national MPs, some of the people's deputies didn't even want to hear about it. The chairman of the meeting, who was obliged to take steps to remove electronic cards that were not available at the morning meeting of the national deputies, did not do so. As a result, I would like to inform you, Your Honor, that the e-cards of the four national MPs who were absent at the morning session worked for them when they were appointed Prime Minister. These are national deputies Gureev, Chickal, Sietch and Petrov. This is what I do for us to continue to follow and follow the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u3	Thank you. Igor Olegovich, please, on the rostrum. We're continuing our consideration of the budget for the following year, 2003. Before the announcement of the break, we signed up for a question to the reporter, the minister of finance. Light up, please. Suskevich. The next one is Demyochin. It takes up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u4	Thank you. National Deputy Suškević, Labour Ukraine faction, industrialists and entrepreneurs. Dear Igor Olegovich, I know how much effort you have put into actually ensuring financial stability in our country. And I respect that. But tell me, please, how did it happen that for the first time in the last five years of the European Year to solve disability problems, before the International Day of Disabled Persons, all expenses, dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention, all expenses for solving the social problems of disabled persons are reduced in the State Budget project? And all the proposals from our committee, the Committee on Veterans, Disabled Persons and Pensioners were, well, rejected by both the government and the Budget Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u5	Thank you for asking. I, the honourable people's deputies, wanted to remind you of literally a few figures on the dynamics of the budget process that has been going on in recent years. The government’s general budget fund in 2001 was 29 billion dollars. In this year's optimistic scenario, we're counting on tax payments and other government budget revenues of 34 billion dollars. For the following year, the State Budget General Fund project was submitted by the Government 38.6. At the same time, 42 billion expenses were planned for the current year under the general fund. Given that we're planning 38.6 for the next year, realizing that 42 is not just the current year, but the next year is something that can't be done. So the overall reduction in the allocation plan, I would stress, is the plan of about 4.5 billion dollars, a little bit less. In these circumstances, virtually all major budget administrators have their schedules reduced. But I would like to make a personal point: on any of the 2001 implementation programs, respectively, 2002 and the plan that we think will be implemented in 2003 there is no reduction. Including what you said about the program, there's actually going to be an increase in expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u6	Please, Demjochin, next is Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u7	Dear Igor Olegovic, I would like to ask two questions. First. Perhaps we are adopting too many documents, such as the Budget Code. And now you're talking about breaking the law. In accordance with article 42 of the Budget Code, you were required to submit to the second reading without exception all the conclusions and suggestions we voted on the first reading. And changes could be made in the text only if you provide reasoned explanations, and in terms of digital indicators, only in cases where more than 2 per cent of the projected indicators of economic and social development have changed. We have seen only 20 per cent of the proposals and conclusions that we have voted on first reading. That's the first question. The second issue concerns the social dimension of our draft budget. I am speaking only in this case of article 57 of the Education Act. It concerns a number of supplements. Also unaccounted for. Such a feeling is that we have a third draft budget that is completely contrary to the Budget Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u8	Thank you for asking. You're absolutely right. In line with article 42, the government is working with the proposals and orders of the Supreme Council when preparing for the second reading. Accordingly, the complete table, I stress, is a complete table for all more than a hundred proposals voted by the Supreme Council, submitted to the budgetary committee, where it is emphasized that the government accepts it, and with a reasoned response, if the government does not support certain proposals In my report from this rostrum today, I couldn't, given the lack of time, explain more than a hundred questions, so I stopped at the most sensitive in terms of balance or budget resources, and the materials are completely on the budget committee. I am ready immediately after today’s session to provide the material that has been transferred to the Committee on Budgets. As for the second part of the question of article 57. I reported this during the budget resolution review, during the first reading, and I am fully prepared to prove to you that paragraphs eight, nine and ten, where the supplements of article 57 of the Education Act are introduced in the next year in full scope. The only provision of the Education Act, which is not included in the draft State Budget Act, is that the average pay in education is at the level of average wages and industry. It's really impossible to take into account the resource we have next year. I assure you that all the rest of the provisions of article 57 of the Education Act are included in the draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u9	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich. Next to the Roadrunners.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u10	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Minister! I hope that, despite this morning's vote, I can address you like this. I would like to ask you to comment on the position of the government's proposed budget project, which concerns an extremely important area of education. You just said a little about her. But two days ago, under the walls of the Supreme Council, there was a mass of intelligence from the Ukrainian, Ukrainian teacher who is now on the verge of survival. Thanks to all of your and our joint efforts, the teacher’s salary today is valued in the same way as the cleaning lady’s. Only he can't work in a few places. I realize that today it is impossible to raise this wage to the average level in industry, but does the government still want to leave it at the lowest level in the country? Why, then, explain, the government's priority is to raise wages in law enforcement, not education. Can the government's priority today be to fight its own people, not to raise the level of education of the people?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u11	Thank you for asking. If you let me, in my answer I'll be guided by numbers, a little less probably political emotion. But I would also like to remind you of a few figures that I think are quite important on the one hand. On the other hand, they correspond to the actual dynamics that have taken place in our country. I want to remind you of this. On December 31st last year, we had a minimum wage of 118 or less. Since January 1st, 118, since July 1st, 165, we've actually raised the minimum wage one and a half times every six months. What we talked about today and was adopted in the first reading or supported as a basis is another attempt to raise the minimum wage six and a half years later. I can't criticize it as a trend. I'm the only thing I want us to really look at are the opportunities that the economy is giving us today. I'm not going to say that it's okay either in education or in science or in medicine or in other equally important budgetary areas. I'd be insincere and I don't have the right to speak from this rostrum, but I stress one thing if we really want to have a higher salary in the budget area and, first of all, including in education, we have to get to work and first of all correct those cuts, the benefits aren't always fixed, especially in industry, to increase the revenue to the state budget. I'm completely honest with you in my answer, and that's the only thing I can say to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u12	Please give a more concise answer. The punks have already been announced by me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u13	Dear Igor Olegovich, I am here. First question. Please tell me, how can a European state with a population of 48 million people and a potential in the past have a budget of less than $9 billion, 49 billion? I can’t imagine where our wealth is! Let's compare per capita in every European country and we have. That's the first one. Just say your opinion, I don't see your guilt here. The other one. Science is given 1.7 percent of GDP per year and this year is given 0.3 percent of GDP. You don't want to, but I mean our leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u14	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u15	Going into the future with this kind of funding for science? And the last one is a statement. We have a private MP, and I don't have any budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u16	Thank you, thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u17	Answer in a very concise way.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u18	At the request of the chairman, it was really tight. If you've asked my personal opinion, I don't think the size of our state budget corresponds to the size of our economy. That's my own opinion. There are enough reasons and one of the main reasons, in my opinion, is that tax legislation that allows you to escape into the shadows or not pay taxes in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, just sit tight. It is given to the head of the Committee on Budgets, Petra Alexiyovich. Let's define in terms of order. How long does it take, Peter Alexiovich? How long do you need? Peter Alexiovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u21	How long does it take?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u22	I would ask for 15 minutes, as the Minister of Finance reported, so the rules of the Minister of Finance were 15 minutes. I'll try to shorten and make it at 10, but just in case.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u23	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u25	Put a regulation on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u26	Dear National Deputies! Dear head! Having received from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a second reading draft of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2003, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs has done considerable work by substantially changing the projected budget figures proposed by the Government for second reading. What was the need for such changes? First. Of the 245 proposals to the draft law that was presented in the first reading, and those 245 suggestions were included in the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, only a third of the government had been counted before the second reading. Of the 105 assignments, the Cabinet of Ministers failed to perform 65. The government did not give the right argument as to why it did not take into account a large part of the Supreme Council's budgetary conclusions on the increase in income, and some of them were simply ignored without any comments. The project, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has not been properly negotiated in the government, and in general I believe that this procedure needs substantial improvement. The fact is that this project is not actually seen by ministers, and as a result, the positions of the ministries that were heard at the Committee on Budget Affairs meetings were very often not in line with the approaches that were formulated in the government bill. Under the Budget Code, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had to take into account the positions approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the form of budgetary conclusions or a draft budget submitted by the Government for first reading. Dear colleagues, report on the budget committee's findings from the 2003 budget, please! Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the hall. Please take your seats in the hall. Once again, honourable colleagues, according to the procedure, the government had to submit either a first-reading version or a budget committee’s conclusions and proposals. On second reading, however, this requirement of the budget code has been violated, resulting in completely new figures, articles, and approaches. On second reading of the draft budget for 2003, the Budget Committee will invite the Supreme Council to approve the textual articles of the budget. Attention to what we will vote for if we support the budget committee's proposals. First, we will vote on the text articles that shape the income and balance of the budget. The first article forms an income, approves the number of the cost base and the deficit or surplus. Next, the first, which accounts for the income of Ukraine’s 2003 government budget, is voted on. Appendix two, funding of the 2003 State Budget. And appendix four, inter-budget transfers, grants and alignments, and funds transferred to the State Budget between the State and the local budgets for 2003. And I particularly stress that all the expenditure articles, Appendix 3, which determine the expenditure of the State Budget for 2003, are transferred to third reading on budget proposals after the budget balance has been approved. In describing the entire 2003 project of the State Budget in the budget committee version, I would like to point out that it is different from the government's second reading. First, the budget became more social. Second, local budgets have improved significantly, which is particularly important for the people's major MPs. Thirdly, the principle of the Supreme Council's position on the need to allocate individual funds for investment is confirmed. Dear colleagues, and the fourth is to take into account the additional resources in the income section, to achieve without diminishing its reality and justification. Thus, it is proposed that the 2003 government budget of Ukraine be set at 54 billion, 766 million dollars. I remind you that the government has offered for a second reading of 49 billion 36 million dollars. Including, honourable colleagues, the incomes of the General Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine amounting to 41 billion 415 million, which is different from the government's offer, which amounted to 38 billion 585 million dollars for the General Fund, 2 billion 815 dollars. Compare the figure that sounded in the media, where we claimed that we had immeasurably increased our income to 8 billion. So the real increase in income in the General Fund is a little over 2 billion 800 million dollars. Also, the income of the State Budget Special Fund totals 13 billion 351 million instead of the government's 10 billion 450 million dollars. We also proposed the 2003 budget of the State budget in connection with the 2003 surplus of the State budget of Ukraine, totaling 567 million 890 thousand dollars, including the General Fund’s surplus of 658 million dollars and the Special Fund’s deficit of 90 million 219,000 dollars. A decision has been made to calculate the income from privatization in the amount of 2 billion 101 million to the income of the State Budget. At the same time, 600 million to the General Fund, which will focus on public debt repayment and service, are the ones that form the specified surplus, and 1 billion 501 million to the Special Fund, with a further distribution on the third reading -- attention, fellows of honor! - for capital costs, for leasing, for supporting small businesses, for building housing for young families, and so on. It is worth noting that the committee has failed to reach agreement with the government on the deduction of revenue from privatization to the income part of the budget, as directly provided for Article 29 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, article 14 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State and Internal Debt. Unfortunately, the government has failed to refer to any specific article in the current legislation to support its position, although in the explanatory note to the draft budget for 2003, the government directly approves the requirements, refers to the requirements of the Budget Code. In the Committee's view, the accounting of incomes from privatization to income is also totally justified in view of their economic nature, considering that the risks and the unscheduled nature of the privatisation proceeds do not, in principle, focus on the current costs. The decision to take account of privatisation revenues was adopted by consensus by all members of the Budget Committee. The committee decided that the government debt in 2003 would not exceed its actual level on December 31, 2002. The national domestic debt threshold of December 31 will be 12 billion 780 million dollars and 1 billion 317 million dollars, with an external debt of 7 billion 993 million dollars in the United States. As repayment and debt-servicing instruments, government loans and government surpluses are offered. The committee decided not to include in the projected marginal amounts of government debt coming from credit agreements that were not ratified by the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, this is also a principled position that was discussed on the committee. We believe that the constitutional function of the Supreme Council, where the Supreme Council approves the border amount of government debt in Ukraine, we cannot give indulgence to the government in advance without careful analysis of the programmes to be ratified by the Supreme Council. Now I would like to take a separate stop on the income side. Dear colleagues! The nominal increase in the revenue of the State budget, not taking into account inter-budget transfers compared with the government’s proposed second reading, was 6 billion, 300 million dollars. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the actual additional income available to the budget, which the committee proposes for second reading, is within 3 billion 600 million. The difference between nominal increase and real resources consists of privatisation revenues and 626 million dollars of income tax from citizens, the cancellation of professional benefits, and the provision of mandatory compensation for all such funds through the General Fund of the State Budget. The following articles have made a major contribution to increasing the income portion of the budget. First. This is a tax on added value. Dear colleagues! The committee decided to pay zero tax on the added value of transactions for the sale of natural gas imported into Ukraine. The government argues that this does not create an additional resource. That's true. But at the same time, we're essentially going to have 1 billion 675 million dollars to reduce the tax surplus that the government has deliberately planned to increase by 2003. Imagine the NAC is not working yet, and it already has a tax indulgence of 1 billion 675 million. According to the tax system developed and proposed by the budget committee, the tax will not be able to enter NAC at all and will be contracted by the authorities of the State Tax Administration in the homeowners. At the same time, there is a mechanism to ensure that natural gas prices do not rise. At the same time, we have made a number of improvements in tax administration. This is another confirmation of the reality of the budget committee's calculations. Despite the letter we have from the tax administration, that the improvement of the compulsory tax collection system would allow for more than 1 billion sums in 2003 to be collected, we only took into account the improvement of the administration of NAQU Naftogaz Ukraine. And the sum of one billion 240 million dollars is absolutely real. Moreover, it is conservative and creates additional incentives to deal with tax evasion of the contracting authorities. The other one. In view of the additional tax revenue for the added cost, the committee agreed with the government’s position on the possibility of paying the amount of the unpaid tax on the added value of the term. One billion dollars. At the same time, the committee will insist that the government develop a transparent compensation mechanism when not individual firms will be able to pay the value added tax, but a mechanism will be developed when all without exception will have the right to claim an equal proportional amount of taxes in 2003. The second argument is removing part of the revenue of state enterprises. In the income section, there are 1 billion dollars. Dear colleagues! Imagine that the State, as the owner of the property, does not receive a penny for a long time at all except taxes. This is your right -- the Supreme Council -- to determine what priorities next year are for the expenditure portion of the budget and where to spend the State's expenses as owner: either for the development of an enterprise, or for investment, or for the resolution of immediate social programs and needs. And the budget committee, resulting in this, has planned less than 10 percent of the total declared revenue of state-owned enterprises for the revenue part of the State budget with a successive redistribution, according to the approved State Budget Act 2003. You can stand on other types of taxes separately, the Rules do not allow it, but just believe that on the budget committee, where 39 people's deputies are representing everyone without excluding the faction, we have managed to avoid politicization, we have managed to avoid very controversial discussions by consensus to decide on the reality of income indicators. At the same time, I insist, two thirds of government proposals were taken into account by the Budget Committee. Literally a few words about local budgets. Dear colleagues, the local budgets are offered to increase the resource by 1 billion 614 million dollars, and these are the only expenses we approve if you accept the budget committee version. According to the Budget Code today, we have to approve Appendix 4, where we indicate what amount will be counted by the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u27	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u28	I ask you, every national MP, to look at his city, the city from which you are elected, and see how clearly the budget committee has allocated resources and I assure you that it will be very easy for you to report when you come to your constituencies. I can take a stand at the voting procedure. Either in the government version, or in our version, but we have to vote anyway, we want to vote the entire draft decision as a whole without an article reading, because article reading can significantly worsen the budget balance if one article is supported, one is not. But at least the requirement on which we insist is to vote as a package in the case of article 1 and article 56 in order to maintain balance. I urge you once again today to support conclusions and suggestions. It's not a separate government project, it's conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u30	And the budget committee's proposals in case a government project is not supported, which, again, I'm drawing your attention to, will be put to the vote first. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u31	Please sign up for questions. Sign up. Light up, please. Karnauh Mikola, the next is Eudokim. Take 10 minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u32	Mikola Karnauh, 152 constituency, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Peter Alexiovich! We endorsed the conclusions of the budget committee regarding section 5 of article 37. It stated that the income tax of citizens working in branches, departments, areas in rural areas, villages, cities, is being paid, accounted for in proportion to the local budget. Unfortunately, this rule has been removed without a reason. Can I have an explanation, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u33	Thank you. This question was really raised and violated by everyone without being excluded by the representatives of the regions when they listened to the draft budget for the first reading. We put it down, we voted in conclusions. If you will excuse me, the government has rejected and disregarded this proposal from the Supreme Council. The logic of the budget committee was as follows. We approve 37 articles, and separately in the comparative table given to you, we settle this issue on the third reading with a separate article, where the order of the accruals of this tax will be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u34	Eudokimov, the next one is Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u35	Eudokimov, faction of the SDPU. Please pass the word to the National Deputy Vojš.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u36	Turn on the Vojsa microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u37	Dear Peter Alexiovich! Article 3. We voted at a meeting of the budgetary committee and did not enter the comparative table. "To establish that oil-, gas-derived enterprises -- we voted, except for the D.A.T. JNG -- Black Searnephtogas." I believe that this is a technical error and it is necessary to make changes now in the voting for our project.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u38	Dear Vladimir Dmitrovich, thank you for that question. In fact, when the transcript is deciphered, I also say that for our stenography of the Supreme Council, the supplement voted on the budget committee was deleted, except for BlackMornaftogas for rent payments. I ask for a transcript when we put to the vote the budget committee's proposal that we vote with the amendment that is now being made by the honourable Vladimir Dmitrovitch Vojsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u39	Landik Valentin Ivanovich. Next Tooth.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u40	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, we have studied very carefully your choice as proposed by the commission, and our faction will indeed support it. But I want to ask you a question. Understand correctly, we voted for the new Prime Minister today. Is this going to be a valid budget vote today and is said to be passed on to the third reading. Or maybe give it a week and vote for that budget on that Thursday. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u41	Dear Valentina Ivanovich, first of all, I thank you for your position in support of the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets. We greatly appreciate your opinion and your opinion of the faction. Secondly, we have also drawn our conclusions and proposals, taking into account the possible effective vote for the Prime Minister. This is the logic of any spending, so how do you distribute the money? What priorities will the new government choose? So it's either investment policy, or fuel-energy, agrarian or other? And that's why you won't find any spending in the draft budget. This will really harmonize with the third reading. We look forward to the involvement of the Prime Minister or the person he appoints to do so. And at the same time, the income part, it's completely apolitical, either it's real income, or it's not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u42	Teeth Valentin Sergiyovich. Next Suprun. Turn on the Teeth microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u43	Valentin Zubov, Fatherland faction. Dear Petr Alekseevich, you, like me, are not the first year of the People's Deputy. You know perfectly well that every year when we discuss the budget, we face the same problems. I mean, there's not enough money, a lot of problems to solve. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on National Security and Defence, we faced the fact that the Ministry of Finance continued to cut all necessary defence costs. You understand that, at all, the very existence of a State is at stake. The opposition has already proposed many times to find additional funds, not from the income component, but by redistributing those funds that are at the expense of the first, the reduction of the President's Administration twice, by reducing DPA costs three times, is 4-5-6 billion roubles. That's enough for both the budget and the doctors and the medics and everyone else. That's the first question. And the second question is, I'm short. Tell me, has the budget committee, at least once in the last 10 years, analyzed how the budget is being implemented? We plan, we draw up, we vote in favour of the budget, but we have never failed to draw on the outcome as it is being implemented. This gives rise to the claim that we now have 70 per cent of the budget in the shadows. How do you assess these facts?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u44	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. I really support your position on the lack of funding for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It's not just the position of the budget committee, it's a question that was repeatedly discussed by the Security and Defence Council, and this position was also supported there. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we are not voting for the expense of the budget, at the expense of the State Budget. The draft, in the conclusions of the Budget Committee, which was voted by the Supreme Council in its first reading, envisions a substantial improvement in the financing of the Ministry of Defence, including the first one that has been included, for example, in the accounts payable in previous years, which significantly improves the administration of these funds, which are allocated from the State Budget. With regard to the answer to your second question, I can remind you that in my practice alone, with the management of the budget, the Committee of Budgets has three times returned to the fact that it has analysed the implementation of the budget this year and has done appropriate hearings on the implementation of the budget in 2001. Both times, the budget committee has proposed that the government be assessed "unsatisfyingly" for the implementation of the budget, with very serious reasons. Moreover, our draft decree suggested that responsibility, including criminal, non-target use, should be brought to bear, the numerous non-earmarked use of the budget funds that were proved by the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, the Supervisory Authority and the Analytical Service of the Committee of Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u45	The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u46	Ludmila Suprun, NDP faction. Of course, the work on the budget was very difficult for us. And I now call on the deputies to support the ruling given by the Committee on Budgets. However, I would like to point out that in some articles we may have some clarifications. Or we will accept it now, during the second reading, and these articles will be clarified on the third reading. It's about article 47 of the non-exploited fund, for the purpose of taxing under depreciation. Then. In article 48, which regulates the prohibition of restructuring or default, article 51, which practically repeats individual articles of other laws, but there are some inaccuracies. Now we've checked that there are such inaccuracies. And article 56, paragraph 38, on the suspension of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the order of payment of taxpayers' obligations to budgets and State trust funds regarding the non-application of fines. So I would like to ask, Peter Alexiyovich, that we can work on these parameters on the third reading, because we really have a little bit of a problem. If you agree, please make sure that this is in the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u47	Thank you, thank you, Reverend Ludmila Pavlovna. Thank you for calling on the Hall to support the draft conclusions and proposals proposed by the Committee on Budgets. Regarding the article, I don't think it's the 47th article, but the 7th article proposed by the Committee on Finance and Banking came later on to the committee. And we can agree with the thoughts of our colleagues and move these articles to the third reading. With regard to article 56, we had a tough deal here with the government. I would like the Minister of Finance to comment on the possibility of referring to the third reading of article 56, paragraph 38, and agree with that if this does not affect the formation of the income part of the budget. Because here in relation to the 56th article, we had a strict requirement to vote by consensus. I would also like to, I don't know if there will be a turn for the people's deputy, Suškević, as well as for the two other factions who have joined the proposal of their colleague, Suškević, where he asked to be transferred to the third reading of article 44, voted. We can also agree with that if it's actually an ultimatum requirement of two factions. I then, Hennady Andriyovich, if the order is exhausted, maybe the word Suškević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u48	Peter Alexiovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u49	For Suškević's stenogram, if possible, give your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u50	Yeah, yeah, yeah, sit down. Turn on the Suškević microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u51	Thank you. I pay attention to my distinguished colleagues as to the fact that before the day of the disabled, Peter Alexiyovich, please listen. With regard to the fact that the day before the invalids' day of the 31st article means to be a protected article of the article "social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities," it's very simple to list this article, because last year we funded the disabled for the first time, that was not the case. I ask you to vote that this article be just protected. Our Hard Ukraine faction, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, will not vote in favour of the second-reading project. I look forward to the support of the Communists on this issue. And the second. Peter Alexiyovich, last year the Ministry of Finance lied to me about children with disabilities. I ask you not to deceive both the hall and me by children with disabilities. The Law on Children with Disabilities has not been implemented for three years. Last year, I was told, in the third reading, we're going to add to the transfers what's touching instead of 80 more. But we now vote on the fifth appendix, and then they say, everything, the train is on the road, the transfers are voted on and it is impossible to vote on 44 articles. You understand, by procedure. And that's a lie. I'm asking 44 articles dealing with the rise in children with disabilities, 10 dollars to raise it to 100 dollars guaranteed a minimum of living. It costs 10 million, respected colleagues, disabled children. These two articles: vote 44 the day before the day of the disabled. I turn to the hall and turn to the distinguished Peter Alexiovich. You're the head of the budget committee, representing "Our Ukraine." For the first time, your committee reduces the cost of disabled people. I ask you to vote on these articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u52	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I can't put a vote on a resource article. I offered to move the 44th article to the third reading, to calculate it. If the resource is 18 million, we can totally easily add these costs to the fourth one. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u54	Your Honor, the time for questioning is over. Have a seat, Peter Alexiovich. Jusko Igor Olegovich, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum. We'll vote. According to the Budget Code, we must first vote with you on the proposals that the government gives us. So let's do it this way. Have a seat, please. As far as budgeting is concerned, it is not the Rules but the Budget Code. Thus, according to the Budget Code, we should vote on the government's proposals. Your attitude should be expressed by voting. Sit down and vote. Yeah, let's go to law school. Igor Olegovich, come on, offer. What does the government offer? An income, a part of a vacation. Deficit, surplus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u55	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u56	And it's an articleic one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u57	Dear National Deputies! I just wanted to refresh the memory of the 2 positions, the extremely important positions that apply to the second reading procedure. This is article 43, part 2, paragraph 3, which states very clearly: "The second reading of the draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine provides, first and foremost, for the approval of the total amount of deficits or surpluses, revenues and expenditures of the State Budget of Ukraine with the subsequent article voting of the draft law."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u58	Igor Olegovich! We reminded ourselves as recorded in the Codex Budgets. Half a minute. You don't have to waste time on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u59	With an article vote on the draft law "On the State Budget of Ukraine", submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for second reading. According to the Budget Code. Other numbers than those presented by the Cabinet of Ministers cannot vote in the session hall on second reading. And I'm sorry for half a minute, I'd like to remind you, too. Article 40 is as follows: no proposals may be made for changes to the tax revenue forecast, except in cases where, according to the Supreme Council Committee on Budgets for the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, they have been found to be inaccurate in their calculations. We have a completely different situation. So I propose that article 1 be put to the vote in an editorial form submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which sets the income of the State budget for Ukraine for 2003 at 49 billion 36 million 466 thousand dollars, including the income of the general fund of the State budget of Ukraine in sum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u60	Listen carefully!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u61	38 billion 585 million 874 thousand 400 dollars and the income of the special fund of the state budget of Ukraine amounting to 10 billion 450 million 592 thousand, 300 dollars, in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Act. Also approve the expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u62	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Expenses, we'll get to that. I know this is one article. Thus, the vote proposed by the government in article 1: Budget revenue of 49 billion 36 million 466. Seven thousand. Turn on the system, we're voting. Identify yourself. [[16:53:50]] For -6 Please calm down. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u63	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, according to the budget code, we had to put to the vote a government draft submitted to the second reading. In case he does not vote, please make a draft decision to the Budget Committee, where the conclusions and proposals that are supported either in the government version or in the conclusions and proposals of the first reading are made. If this draft decree raises the necessary number of votes, it means that the budget is adopted in the second reading. This is not a draft alternative budget committee, according to Igor Olegovic, these are the conclusions of the budgetary committee regarding the voting of articles approved by the budgetary committee. That's why we don't want to go to an article vote, or we can break the balance. Request for a vote in this particular case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u64	We already know the balance. As far as voting is concerned, we wanted to determine how the tax treatment of this room was generally defined. Are we putting to the vote the whole project that you've put to the second reading? We can't do that. We can't. We either have to vote now, or we have to go to the committee. Let's do it this way. Okay. Everyone got a draft second-reading budget bill. We will not then determine what is involved in the individual articles. Do we actually vote? Yes, put it to the vote. It's a government project for the vote. [[16:56:12]] For the five of us. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Poshenko, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! I thank you for, in principle, your position on the evaluation of the government project that was submitted to the second reading. I now ask the chairman to put to the vote draft regulation 2000P-5, where we have clearly defined the drafting of the budget committee of articles 1, 2, 4, and so on, after the deletion of article 44, for the third reading, in which we will take into account the increase in the financing of persons with disabilities. There are possibilities for this, but it's been transferred to the third reading, the article is resourceful, so we ask that we vote only after the discussion on the budget committee. Also for the transcript, I say that for the third reading, also according to the draft decrees, Articles 7, 47, 48, 51 and Article 56, paragraph 38. Once again, according to Valentin Ivanovich Landik's request, the increase in income is absolutely real. Under the General Fund of the State Budget, revenue growth is only 2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 June 2016. It's just an increase. No 6, no 5 billion. According to the General Fund of the State Budget, as I said, it's increasing this way. On the third reading, we said for the transcript. 31st is a list of protected articles required by the Hard Ukraine faction also for third reading. In this project. 56th? No, I didn't. I'm sorry. In this way, the request to put to the vote was made by the members of the budget committee at number 2000/p-5. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u66	Just a minute. Peter Alexiyovich, let's be clear about the Rules and the Budget Act, which states that the second reading of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine provides for first approval of the overall volume of deficits, surpluses, revenues, expenditures of the State Budget of Ukraine with the subsequent article voting of the draft State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the way we vote -- or the way we vote -- or the way that you determine that all of these articles can be voted on in general, that's the right of the session room. I am asking the Committee on Budgets, more specifically, for its decision, to put to the vote a draft regulation, where we provide for a list of articles in clear conformity with the Budget Code, a list of articles that we ask the Supreme Council to support in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u68	Peter Alexiyovich, once again, I will put to the vote only as recorded in the Codex Budget. There's no objection. Teryohin, please. Then Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u69	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! Regardless of what is written in the Budget Code or in the Rules of the Supreme Council, you and I have to make a decision ad hoc, everyone knows exactly how to adopt another voting procedure in relation to the circumstances that have arisen: either we are cutting this budget in general, if we vote in an article, or we are deciding to support the Committee's decision to delete the third reading of the articles that Peter Prashenko has read and we are working on a third reading, productively, normally, by seeking new income sources of the budget. Therefore, we would be very much encouraged not to pedal this vote today, and to make a decision ad hoc on the vote, as proposed by the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u70	Just a minute. Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u71	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Gennady Andriyovich, I'm calling you. The Budget Act has its own specificity, it is simply not possible to vote on articles, because we can vote on one article resourcefully and not vote on the other, and then the whole budget will collapse because the budget is a balance. Given this, the Committee on Budget Affairs and made the decision balanced, it's actually like an article, so the part that we're offering income is balanced on second reading, all the other articles are cost-effective on third reading. This is a balance. As soon as we start voting in separate parts, we're just going to blow the whole budget. Therefore, there are requests: all members of the Committee on Budget signed the decree, worked hard, put it to a vote and vote. Believe me, it's for the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u72	Please, Philenko's microphone. Philenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u73	Vladimir Filenko, "Our Ukraine." I propose to support the proposal made by Sergei Teryohinim. We don't really have another way out. Gennady Andriyovich, please step on ad hoc. And I suggest we move on to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u74	Okay, thanks. Shufrich, please. And we're done, we're gonna vote. Please turn on the Shufric microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u75	Dear colleagues. Shufrich, faction of SDPU. Nevertheless, let us respect the budget code, which clearly states that the first article is being voted on. If it is not voted on, we cannot continue to vote, and we have to assume that on the second reading, we have not adopted the bill, and we are returning it to work. Thank you. Please act in accordance with the Code of Budgets and Rules. I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u76	Let's finish the discussion. If we act by law. Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u77	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to adopt a budget, we do not have the right to restrict the rights of citizens as defined by Ukrainian legislation. Article 56 proposes to stop laws, especially in education, on all social guarantees to veterans of the Great Homeland War. So in light of the Constitutional Court's decision, I ask you to delete Article 56. We can't cut salaries for teachers, doctors, veterinary workers today. Today, we cannot limit the fact that we do not spend money on feeding children in schools. So I ask this article 56 to be deleted for third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u78	Konovaluk Valerius Illich and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the draft budget committee meets the requirements of the Budget Code. But we understand what happened today in the Supreme Council. We approved the prime minister of Ukraine, who should refer to the second reading, to the budget in terms of adjustment of macroeconomic indicators, the structure of the budget. It's government policy next year, it's a socio-economic development programme. So I think it's a waste of time, let's deal with it with understanding and give the new prime minister or the new prime minister an opportunity to express his opinion on this budget, but let him work on the week so that we have a really, really better budget. That's what the faction insists. And we think that the actual budget committee is working in a fruitful way, but there are significant differences in the position of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u80	Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! The budget is essentially a parliamentary issue, not a governmental one, but a parliamentary one. So no matter what the Prime Minister has changed, we continue the budgetary process. I remind you that interrupting the process is harmful to the health of our voters. And you don't have to react to these things. We give a budget resolution to the government, the government responds to it, we make proposals. The budget is a parliamentary issue. And let's do our parliamentary function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, so that we can vote on the proposed ruling as a whole, we must first vote on the ad hoc procedure, that is, so that we can move away from the Rules, what is proposed by Deputy Teryohin. It'll be legal. So we put an ad hoc procedure to the vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u83	The Committee on Budgets is asking for support, which will enable us to vote on this decision. Asking us to support the ad hoc decision that changes the procedure of the ruling and allows us to vote in general. [[17:07:45]] For 222
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u84	222. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u85	Let's help Karmazin Yuri Anatolyevich, because he's screaming very loudly. Let's turn the microphone on so he can scream in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u86	Thank you, Gennady Andryovich, in fact, you need help because you don't see a man holding his hand for half an hour. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We've now seen a critical level of confidence in the finance minister and the government as a whole, in the work he's done, it's five votes. Let's be clear, don't interfere with the budget process. Now I didn't vote consciously, and a number of deputies didn't vote with me because I had to make one warning: I had to rule out not only what Seminyuk offered, but I proposed, I stood up for this rule in the Constitutional Court and this decision, and I have the honour and satisfaction of it, and it says there is no way to stop the guarantees and benefits of the military, the militia, and those who are provided with valid legislation. That's why we stop that article, and without that, we all vote, thank you, for the project that Dusty prepared. And we have to thank the budget committee for working day and night, and the government wants to do it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, Deputy Carmazin didn't realize that we were voting now. We have now voted on a procedural decision that allows us, in this particular case, to change the voting procedure for the second reading of the budget and to vote on the draft regulation proposed by the budgetary committee. The honourable chairman, Hennaday Andriyovich, has requested that the draft ad hoc decree be re-voted to amend the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u88	I'm once again putting the ad hoc procedure to a vote, which is the exception to the rules. Vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u89	The Committee on Budgets supports. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u90	Identify yourself. [[17:10:25]] For 264 By factions, please explain. Thus, the draft regulation proposed by the budget committee on the subject of the budget is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, once again for the stenographer. By deleting articles 7, 44, 48, 51 and article 56, paragraph 38.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u92	But from 56th.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u93	Yeah, 56, because it's a resource article. And there are 31 articles that define a list of protected articles. The 56th article remains, this is a resource article. We can't vote without her.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u94	Just a minute. Please turn on the Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u95	I will ask you, Peter Alexiyovich, we have proposed 56 articles, as in the Constitution we must remove. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court, so let's include it anyway, or the Socialist faction won't vote for the draft budget. Please delete article 56.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u96	Dear Mrs. Valentina! I have an offer. 56th article is a resource article, we can't delete it. But in the case of an additional resource, we can allocate additional funds, fund those guarantees, the benefits that were introduced in the 56th article and on the third reading, cancel some of them. The request is to agree on this compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u97	Right. Is everything clear? Let's put to the vote a project proposed by the committee. Turn on the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u98	I'd like your support, Your Honor. A request for support. [[17:12:52]] For 272
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u100	Enlighten the factions. The word is given to Red. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u101	Red, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Deputies! On October 25, a group of national deputies: Kalennik, Zarubinsky, Movčan, Yukhnovsky, Oliynik, Drach - asked the Head of the Supreme Council to hold parliamentary hearings on the memory of the victims of the 1932-1933 famine. I am deeply convinced that there are no relatives present in the National Chamber who would not have suffered the greatest genocide in the history of civilization. Which is why I would like to ask today, right now, because this decision is made today in the agenda to include and vote on the Supreme Council's decision to hold parliamentary hearings on February 12th next year. I would like to put to the vote my proposal and, given that the leaders of even foreign nations are already addressing the Ukrainian people with sympathy for this terrible tragedy in the history of our people. Please support the proposal of a number of national deputies of different factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. A draft decree of 2432 is proposed to include in the agenda parliamentary hearings to honor the memory of the victims of famine. Please vote. Turn the system on. [[17:15:29]] For 229 229, decision taken. The factions, please. Turn on Teryochin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u103	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, a great request from the Committee on Finance and Banking in connection with the fact that we continued the budgetary process, now in five minutes, to review the re-admission of the Law on the Taxation of the Income of Natural Citizens. We are destined to change our people's salaries by the end of this year and give extra resources to the budget. I'd like to literally spend five minutes on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, the Chief of Staff may leave, perhaps. We're all interested in you. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I need to consider issues related to budgeting -- draft laws. We voted that time, we didn't have enough votes. Therefore, it is proposed that we vote again. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reading a ruling that the Committee on Finance asks you to support. The Supreme Council decides: (1) to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on Income Tax, Registration No. 1111, as supplemented by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking in accordance with the Supreme Council Decision of 11 July 2002; (2) The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking to finalize the draft draft for second reading, taking into account the comments of the subject of the legislative initiative in part that does not conflict with the concept of citizens' income taxation"; 3) The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance to deal with the proposals of all entities of the legislative initiative on eligibility, I very carefully ask that the introduction of a transitional period be introduced to increase the amount of non-taxable tax benefits on citizens' incomes, the step-by-step introduction of articles relating to taxation of income derived from the sale of immovable property, interest and dividends, and the establishment of a single fixed tax on the income of natural persons for up to three years. In addition, under the agreement with the agrarian committee, the third paragraph is proposed to be completed "with regard to the specificities of taxation in the agricultural sector". With such additions, we ask for our support, our hands untied. We want to adopt a new law by the end of the year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u106	Vote? Please turn on the system, we're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u107	Please be supportive. The committee's asking for support. [[17:19:21]] For 282 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u108	Please, Valentine Grigorovitch's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u109	Thank you, Hennady Andriyovich. I want to draw your attention as chairman of this evening's session. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, to what time will we violate the Supreme Council regulations? Is it possible to approach the issues of the day’s order given to the people’s deputies before the beginning of the morning’s meeting? I quote you in article 3.1. 7 The Rules of Procedure, which states paragraph one: At the beginning of the first meeting of each working day, the chairman of the meeting announces the day-to-day schedule for the day-to-day work. Questions are considered in the order in which they are included in the agenda of the sitting. In the end, let us probably end the violation of the basic law of the vitality of the Supreme Council, which is the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u110	Valentin Grigorovovich, as far as the Rules are concerned, I know him very well. First of all, this is a question we voted on a few weeks ago. There were not enough votes, so the MPs offered to put the vote again and vote today. You and I voted in our second reading of the draft budget law for the following year. It makes sense to vote on the law that affects the income. So what was the problem when the MPs offered to accept it? Please tell me. Let us now consider another question. The next question is 1156-1, draft law on prevention and resistance to legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's necessary to discuss this bill in detail right now. He has been discussed many times, he has been discussed on groups, on factions, he has been discussed on committees, and so on and so forth. In fact, he is already distressed in our watchful attitude. The main thing I was going to say right now is the next one. Since the last discussion, three weeks ago, there have been dozens of new comments and new proposals from national MPs. They were all considered, considered on the committee, and in fact 70 percent of them were accepted. Yesterday, a Conciliation Council was meeting with factions, factions who wanted to come to this Conciliation Council, although everyone was invited. And the next proposal that I'm going to give you has been processed. That's what this proposal is about. To adopt the proposed bill, this bill, in the second reading, and to transfer to the third reading some articles that prompt discussion. These are the following articles, and I'll tell you now, please, carefully, if you don't mind. This is a preamble and an article in the first draft of this bill, which deals with prehistoric crime. These articles are proposed to be moved to the third reading. Next. Article seven. This is the right of the financial monitoring subject to refuse to perform operations. There is an offer to move the article seventh to the third reading after the discussion. This is article 10, to which it is proposed to include a list of central executives who have the right to carry out financial monitoring. And finally, this is the eleventh-fifteenth article, where the amounts are recorded and where the signs of financial transactions are recorded, the questionable financial transactions that require financial monitoring. Therefore, it is finally proposed that this bill be adopted in a second reading after the deletion of these articles in order to discuss them on a third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u112	Thank you. Just a minute. Turn on Assadchev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, I have a request under the previous decree of Law 1111-D to also give the Committee on Budget Affairs a joint mandate with the Committee on Banking to work on, because this is linked to the income part. As far as the Prevention and Legalization Act is concerned, it is a great request to reject it, because we have practically now drafted a whole new bill that is fully in line with the concept that Ukraine has signed. And this law must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u114	Turn on the keykowski microphone. Have a seat, please. Have a seat. Victor Volodymyrovich, The word for the Klukkov Jury Bogdanovich, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u115	Dear Lord Chairman! Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. I'm pointing out to you that I have a right to a rule-of-law report as the author of a non-admissibility order. This decision must be reported before the vote, and it must be discussed in a simplified procedure: two against, two against, and then voted. Only after that can the bill be considered essentially. Now I'm asking you to set me up with the rules of procedure of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to a document called 1156-P2 on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of the Laundering of Crime. The point is that the bill you have proposed has repeatedly grossly violated the Constitution of Ukraine. It violates constitutional rights that, under our Constitution, cannot be restricted by any law. This means that maybe it's financial, but in law it's illiterate. I can give you a few arguments right now. I'm not going to read everything that's on the ground. Note, though, that this bill makes all primary financial monitoring entities completely independent of financial institutions, including private ones, which means that all relief departments will be so, as well as all liaison offices, post offices that carry out remittances. In this way, each post office will carry out, each private bank, every private insurance company under this bill will carry out state powers, exercise control, at their own expense, and at the same time consider the very employee of a private institution that may have doubts as to whether your billing is not money laundering. Such a level of legal opinion is unacceptable in any legal state. We do not face such demands from international organizations. This is an attempt to create a colossal mechanism of financial law enforcement worse than the current prosecutor's office, much worse than the tax administration. I do not propose to repeal this bill altogether, but I just think that the Committee on Finance and Banking has clearly misread the Constitution of Ukraine. And so I propose to refer to a committee of legal policy that knows the Constitution better and may not allow violations of the constitutional rights of citizens, where the secret to information about yourself is that many other reports are foreseen, and there is a violation of the fundamental right of citizens to do what they don't want to do if it's not provided for in the Constitution. So I propose that this bill be submitted to the Committee on Legal Policy for further development. Once again, I would like to remind you, in accordance with the Rules, that proposal is voted first.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u116	Okay. Thank you. Teryohin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u117	Dear National Deputies! First of all, on behalf of the Committee on Finance, banking, I would like to remind you all that we had a working group with the participation of the Ministry of Justice, members of the Legal Committee, members of the Budget Committee and other interested persons. And when I hear Mr. Klukkowski, I have two thoughts. One, it's that -- I deliberately said his name to be a reaction -- first, it's that, you know, we had this deputy, Stepenko, who started farming and ended up in the international economy. We have a new MP who knows everything. The second thing I'd like to say is that if we don't adopt this law, we're going to do the wrong thing to Ukraine in the external market, but we're just going to leave the bandits who are now protecting the unpunished as they are today. So it's very strange for me to hear this, I would like all of us to uphold this law, move the contentious articles to the third reading, and introduce it by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u118	Should we put a question to the vote? That's how the vote goes. Klukkowski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u119	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. I think that Mr. Sergey Terjohin has demonstrated an exclusive wealth of thought by two. I'm really sorry that these ideas don't fit in.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u120	Don't call each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u121	concern about compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u122	You don't have to insult each other. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear friends, I don't think we should discuss this law yet, because clearly it has been discussed many times. I repeat my offer. The final proposal is to accept it in the second reading with a third reading of the following articles: Preambles, 1, 7 and 10-15.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u123	Let's do it this way. Klukkowski insists that we vote on the issue of unacceptableness. By the Rules, yes. So first, let's ask the draft decision about inadmissibility. Turn on the system, we're voting. It's about inadmissibility. [[17:33:18]] For-58 The decision is not taken. And now I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Please turn on the system. Please vote. [[17:33:38]] For 294 Decision taken. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u124	Dear friends, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u125	Yuri Anatolyovich, we will vote in the third reading. Please come to the committee and work and repair yours too. Let's move on. Have a seat, please. Work on the committee. Dear colleagues, the three factions insist that we vote on draft regulation 2408 on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the relationship and cooperation between Ukraine and NATO. Vote? Turn on the system. [[17:35:53]] For 263 Decision taken. Mishura's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u126	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable fellow MP, I have taken the floor. Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. So I'm absolutely sure that Hennaday Andriyovich Vasiliev knows the Rules very well. But not only do we need to know the Rules but we need to do them. I am the head of the Counting Commission, and before every responsible vote, I look to the Rules. Article 5.1.4 of the Rules states that the Prime Minister’s candidacy is by secret ballot. I approach Hennady Andryovich in the morning, he says, well, we voted in a very different way before, we voted in cards. And we had to ask ad hoc and solve that question. I say this in defense of the head of the Regulatory Committee, to whom you have said that you know the Rules very well. Since you're violating the Rules every five minutes, I'm asking you to put to the vote my proposal to remove now from the holding of the Supreme Council of Mr. Vasilyev Hennady Andriyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u127	Please tell me what kind of proposal I'm going to put to the vote. Repeat, please. Turn on Mishuri's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u128	The proposal was to put to the vote the issue of removing today from the holding of the session Vasiliev Hennady Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u129	There's no objection. A vote is taken on the proposal of the MP Mishura to remove from the holding of the Vasiliev session. [[17:40:47]] For-89 Follow the text. The bill, it doesn't need to be done, it doesn't need to be done. Draft Law on the Concept of the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation. Second reading. Reported the deputy head of the Committee on European Integration, Zvaricz Roman Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u130	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues. Before I come to this issue, I want to welcome all of us, because this is the first time in the history of a young Ukrainian state where the only legislative body in the previous decision that we have made has spoken in favour of Ukraine's NATO membership. I think we should all be welcomed in this regard. Now, here's the bill for your consideration, number 1191. It was submitted by the President of Ukraine and it was designated urgent. This project was considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in September of this year and was adopted in the first reading. We also had to consider it in the regime and the second reading three weeks ago, last Thursday, when draft laws were to be voted on. But if you remember, we asked the members of the committee to put the matter aside for today. The reason was that some comments were made by experts from international law regarding the bill. Then we also received, that is, the committee members were given a protocol commission from the Head of the Supreme Council, which caused no objection in the session room, to take the utmost account of the international law experts we did. The project is ready for your consideration. We're ready to go to second reading mode. But I just want to say that all the proposals made by the Ukrainian national MPs, including the Health Committee, have been taken into account. Not taken into account, according to the Committee's decision, 4 proposals for amendments that are of a non-essential nature, although if the author insists on these amendments, this is the Pavlovsky People's Chamber, of course the Committee will not deny the regulatory rules on the consideration of these amendments. Gennady Andryovich, I've practically finished my speech. The committee's decision is to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve this bill, introduced by the President, which is defined as urgent, in second reading and in general as law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u131	Thus, it is proposed, in a second reading, to vote on the draft Act on the Concept of the Universal Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation. To the first article. Listen to what I'm saying. In the first article, the first amendment is included, Michael Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u132	Gennady Andriyovich, there are four amendments that are not included, all of them, which were submitted by the national deputy Pavlovsky. If you please, I'd like you to just be the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u133	The second amendment was rejected. Pavlovski, are you insisting? You insist. Vote. Please change. Turn on the Pavlovsky microphone. In one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u134	Thank you. Dear comrades, if I reject my offer, it will be a law of non-profit. We must have the dignity of the state. My amendment concerns adding that we are integrated, we take into account the European Union's law, taking into account national interests. The National Interests Committee rejects. Who needs such a law? And in general, I want this proposal. So I think it doesn't contradict anything. We just want national interests to be taken into account. I urge you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u135	Michael Antonovich, do you have in mind the second, friction repair? And the third one, perhaps?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u136	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u137	Okay. Please include the system concerning the amendment of the second Paulian.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u138	The committee decided against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u139	It's a committee against it. [[17:46:28]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Paul’s third amendment was also rejected. Are you insisting? Turn on the Pavlovsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u140	Dear colleagues! The following amendment refers to the fact that this article lists the European Union’s laws. We cannot, in the Ukrainian law, approve foreign laws -- the laws of the European Union. That's why it's a nonsensical legal thing. They just need to be ruled out. And if there's any new ones. So we just have to rule out a list of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u141	What do you mean, you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u142	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u143	Mikhail Antonovich, this is not a bill. These are the normative acts of the European Union that we have to take into account in our adaptation activities. The committee decided against this amendment. [[17:47:41]] For-32
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u144	The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Paul’s fifth amendment. You insist, Michael Antonovich, yes or no? He insists, doesn't he? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u145	Dear colleagues! I understand that the amendments to vote are very important when the committee does not stand for national interests, then whose committee it is. But look what it says. It would be normal if we took these bills into account, and the word "obligatory" is inserted. That means no specifics, we can't count anything. So I propose that the word "must" be removed, and leave only that "to count." Not necessarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u146	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u147	It's a committee against it, because it's a word that's needed to ensure our apparitions in the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u148	Please make up your mind. [[17:48:50]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The 9th amendment of Pavlovsky Mikhail Antonovich. Are you insisting? Please include Pavlovsky. Well, why take the time, please. What kind of position is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u149	Thank you. Dear comrades! I want to make a mockery of our Scientific and Experimental Department, which does not read the laws of those represented by the President. Just listen to what is written in this article! "Why adaptation should cover all areas of legislation, but priorities should not be constant -- first, but should be determined for a certain period, and adjusted, depending on the situation." The period is time. It's not a period, it's a step. And the second. "According to the situation," delete, the laws don't contain such terms at all. So we need to ask questions about our Legal Department. Where's he looking? Now, notice, here comes the dialogue. Pavlovski is for national interests. For whose sakes is Cooking? Ask him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u150	Vote. Turn the system on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u151	It's a committee against it. [[17:50:20]] For-37
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u152	It is up to the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u153	The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u154	Please vote. [[17:50:49]] For 291 The committee requests that the law as a whole be examined.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u155	Please turn on the "Race" system. [[17:51:13]] For 297
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u156	I thanked you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u157	Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act. [[resecond reading]] Reports: Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u158	Dear colleagues, on 11 July this year, we have considered this bill with you on second reading. We have considered all proposals, especially those that are not fully taken into account by the people's deputies. The only reason that some of the people's deputies, including Matvienkov, were moved to read again, was that we might miss it because we had given the material late, to miss some important moments in this bill. In early September, the Committee sent letters to all committees, in all fractions of letters, to the people's deputies, Mother and Matvienko, who made critical comments, requesting proposals. All proposals that have been submitted to the Committee have been considered. There were no substantive proposals that would have taken root in any position on the bill. A total of 129 proposals were received during the second reading period, 101 taken into account. I want to draw your attention to two technical errors that have not occurred, they have been accepted by our committee, but have not entered the table. It's on page 3, remember, you were asking that if an employer started any work, but he didn't have a permit, he immediately had a seizure, so to speak, a permit to operate. That's why we added to this paragraph, but it's mechanically omitted, so I would like to add this full paragraph on page 33 that "the employer is taking steps to cancel the state registration of this enterprise in the legal order provided that during the month the employer does not take appropriate measures to remedy the deficiencies found." This is the proposal that was made here in the Hall on 11 July. And one more thing. Remember, I think the people's MP Bespaly said that the creation of life-saving councils was necessary to clarify this in public. Therefore, in paragraph 3 on page 48, after the word "labour units" is added "and also on public grounds for the safety of the population" because, in fact, such councils were established in 1994 and they function, they are simply not defined in the law. There were no other proposals and comments to the bill. Once again, at the 11 July meeting, all comments and proposals were considered and voted, so I would like to ask you to support it and adopt it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u159	Let's go to the articles. First amendment. Counted. Counted. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u160	Gennady Andreevich, if I may, I will help. Page 7, there's three repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u161	Amendment 22, page 7. Akopian. Is he insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u163	Hare. The 23rd amendment. Is he insisting? Ivan Alexanderovich. No, it's not. Stoyan, 24, insists?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u164	No, he took it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u165	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u166	Next, page 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u167	Yeah, 37-a? Sharov Igor Fedorovich insists? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u168	Moreover, the paragraph has been amended editorially. 12 pages.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u169	Stoyan? Insomnia, 39s, insists?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u170	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u171	Akopian? No, it's not. Sharov Igor Fedorovich, 40th, insists? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u172	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u173	Insomnia. 41st? Stoyan, 42nd?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u174	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u175	No, it's not. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u176	Page 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u177	Yes, Akopian, 50s, insists?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u178	No, it's not. Page 19
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u179	53rd, Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovich? Don't insist. 54th, Bespallian? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u180	20 pages.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u181	20th, Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovich? Don't insist. 59th Landik Valentin Ivanovich? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u182	27th.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u183	Incorruptible, 27th, insists? No, it's not. Stoyan?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u184	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u185	No, it's not. The '70s, Bespallian? Don't insist. 71? 71st or 70s, Bespallian? Turn on Bespaly Boris Yakovitch's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u186	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention here, especially the employers. This law is not bad at all, but there is one very dangerous norm when the employer is obliged to provide an extra medical examination for the employees. This is also about small businesses, extracurricular surveys can be quite a lot. As long as I had a chance to talk about it in Ukraine yesterday, everyone who created the job is a hero, two jobs are twice a hero, and so on. We are interested in creating jobs, and we place such a heavy burden on our employers. So I ask you to delete the norm, this norm, which obliges employers at their expense to carry out extracurricular, unforeseeable laws, or medical examination of workers. Please support this, this is article 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u187	Turn on the system, vote on the amendment of Bespaly Boris Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u188	These include periodic medical examinations. [[17:58:40]] For-80 Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u189	The decision is not taken. 73rd, Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovich does not insist. 75th doesn't insist on Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovich. Stoyan Alexander Mikhailovich, 77th, does not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u190	37th.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u191	Insomnia, 86th Amendment. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u192	45th.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u193	Yes, Bespallian, 41st. 96th Amendment? Don't insist. 99th? Don't insist. 101st? Don't insist. 103rd? 104th? Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, 103rd Amendment. Microphone, please turn on. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u194	103rd Amendment. I just want to be clear. I realized from the report that it was actually accounted for and dropped out of technical condition. That's why I'm thanking the support committee here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u195	Overruled, 116th. Gavrish does not insist. So we've discussed those amendments that aren't included. Let's put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u196	Dear colleagues, please support. It's a very good law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u197	In the second reading of the draft Law on the Protection of Work. Please vote. [[18:01:08]] For 271 271. Please vote in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u198	Gennady Andreevich, please vote as a law. Dear colleagues, please support. There are no claims to the project. [[18:01:31]] For 302 Thank you. I always would.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u199	Have a seat, please. 0974, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Communications Act. [[second reading]] He will report to the first deputy heads of the Committee on Construction, Transport, and Communications, Long Stanislaw Aleksyyyovich. Please, hurry up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u200	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications considered the bill twice during its sessions and was determined by voting on each of the amendments and articles. As can be seen from the comparative table, some of the amendments have been made, and some have been accepted. At the same time, I would like to point out that according to the findings of the General Legal Authority, according to the legislation on the prohibition of enterprises and the merger of the payment of incoming telephone signals for all types of telephone connections is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and interference with the economic activities of the operators. Yes, in line with the Constitutional Court’s decision of March 2, 1999, as well as of February 10, 2000, the direct regulation of prices and tariffs violates the principles of division of government. The introduction of hourly counters for subscribers has to do with solving technical, legal, economic, and administrative issues. With regard to the installation of counters, it is estimated that 500 million dollars is needed for their purchase alone, and these costs will be borne by the users. In addition, a decision has been taken by the Chief Legal Authority to make it unearmarked. In view of what has been said, I consider the adoption of the bill as proposed to be of no use. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u201	What's the committee, Stanislav Alexiovich? Don't go, please be in the rostrum. So what about the committee? What's his opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u202	The committee considered this question and. [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat. This question was considered by the committee in an articleistic manner. A comparative table gives out and clearly states which articles are rejected, which are supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u203	Then tell me, please, do you insist as an initiator on the first and second corrections? Oh, no? Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u204	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u205	You insist. Let's put it to a vote. Let's put the amendment to the vote first. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u206	Amendment 1. To complement article 1 with the following content: "Abonette devices, devices for the use of electrical communications services that are owned or used by subscribers who have a certificate of conformity in accordance with Ukrainian legislation."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u207	I see. Let's put it to a vote. Turn the system on. [[18:05:35]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Another amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u208	Amendment two. The words "pay for incoming phone signals for all types of telephone calls" replace the words "pay for a subscriber who receives electronic communications services at the time of the incoming phone call for services that are determined by the Ukrainian tradition."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u209	Vote. Turn the system on. [[6:06:16]] For-96 The decision is not taken. There are no other rejects.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u210	Yes, there are no more rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u211	I'm betting on a second-read vote. Turn on Bondarenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u212	Vladimir Bondarenko, Our Ukraine. Dear friends! I was surprised to hear the report of the distinguished Mr. Long, who completely distorted the committee’s decision. As the committee considered, it accepted the first amendment, which refers to not the first, first article, which deals with the ban on making payments for a rolling telephone signal. Other amendments made by the Long Committee have been considered and today the Hall has decided on it, so I ask for the bill to be supported, and this will be the right decision, because Ukraine is the only country where we are being paid for calling us. It's totally insane. Do you understand? It's the only country. I understand Mr. Long's famous interests, but in the end, we must become a legal state and protect the rights of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u213	Okay. Anyone can be defined by a vote. Let us put to the vote in the second reading a draft law on communication, amending the law on communication. Turn the system on. [[18:07:48]] For 237 Decision taken. [[Applause]] We vote in general as a law. [[18:08:08]] For 246 Decision taken. Have a seat, please. We voted in general as a law. A draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws regarding the payment of one - time assistance in the event of death of persons who had special merit before their Father. [[Deaths]] Second reading. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u214	Dear colleagues, perhaps my report will be the shortest. It is based on the fact that neither in the process of discussing this law nor in the coming of it to the committee for processing the second reading of amendments has there been no change. The committee considered and offered to accept it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u215	Let's vote, turn the system on. A draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the payment of one - time assistance in the event of death to those who had special merit before the Fatherland. Vote. [[18:09:50]] For 307 Decision taken. 1160, draft Act amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities of Ukraine. The previous one is voted in general as a law. [[18:10:21]] For 313 Decision taken. 1160. Draft Act amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. Suškević reports from the scene. Turn on the Suškević microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I beg of you. A brief addition to article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. It is suggested that the right to account for both higher and secondary special educational institutions should be established and that a scholarship should be paid not only for persons with disabilities but also for children with both parents with disabilities. Well, they're very difficult families. And I have a proposal for us to adopt this article, which is an addition to this law before the day of the disabled. Please vote. Please hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u217	All adjustments are included. Please turn on Nikolenka Stanislave Mikolayovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u218	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I think that the amendment that was made, especially by Valérie, needs to be supported. The only thing that I think is just going through the way that in the code law the benefits are provided, is that we must somehow either write in the Education Act or in other legislative acts. You got me. In general, I offer to support the introduction of disability benefits to higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u219	I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[18:12:20]] For 311 Decision taken. In general, it's like the law. [[18:12:39]] For 315 Decision taken. 1045. The draft law on the order of distribution in natural particles, pies and their exchange. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy, Tomic. This is a question we have discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u220	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee supports Bill 2026. Please vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-21-m1.u221	Let's do it this way. 1045 government arrived, we discussed both. Let's put it in order. I mean, you're suggesting a parliamentary placement? 2026 votes. [[18:13:41]] For-162 The decision is not taken. 1045. Draft law on land policy in nature. A bill of 1045 - government law is put to the vote. [[18:14:04]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. For rereading. 1192 is a draft law amending fixed taxes. [[on compensation for pension benefits]] 1192. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1192. Time's up. I'm calling the evening session closed. Tomorrow at 10 p.m., the plenary.
