ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Please take your jobs and prepare for registration. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system, please. Please register. [[10:03:12]] Registered -378 There are 378 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Hare John Alexanderovich, who was 50 years old. Let's say hello to John Alexanderovich at the age of the noon age, and also to the high-priority award of the Second-degree Deservation Medal. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian government is in the lead with Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules on Friday, we discuss the order of the day’s session. You have a list of questions to consider. The rule does not provide for the consideration of parliamentary inquiries today. Yet, in view of the requests made by the national deputies, you might consider those who have come if you agree. Is there no objection? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Deputies: Baloga, Ivanča and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the tightening of the funding of the integrated flood protection programme in the Tis River Basin in the Zakarpatsk region for 2002-2006 and the forecast for 2015, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 24 October 2001, No. 1388. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the Prime Minister. Please make up your mind. [[10:05:17]] For 196 The decision is taken, for 196. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the telephone call for the home of the disabled man of the Great Homeland War. I am voting for this request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. [[10:05:50]] For a hundred and A decision has been made for 145 national deputies. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of national security and national interests in the implementation of Ukraine’s radio navigation plan in the process of integration into the world’s global navigation system. I am voting for the request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. [[10:06:26]] For-140. For 140, the decision is made. Please listen to the announcement in accordance with Article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it is also authorized to represent the deputy faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" by the National Deputy of Ukraine Klimov Leonid Mihajlovich. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the entry of Ukrainian national deputies: Panasovski Oleg Grigorovovich as part of the parliamentary faction "Regions of Ukraine", Verevski Andrija Mihajlovich and Cholmbitka Igor Vasilovich as part of the European Choice Group. In harmony with article 4.2.2. I'm informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the registration of the new National Election Group. It's made up of 15 Ukrainian national MPs, and you're given the group's personal composition. To represent the parliamentary group authorized by the Ukrainian National MP Mikolou Mihajlovich. Dear National Deputies! According to the weekly schedule, the Office of Ministers of Ukraine is now being reviewed by the Supreme Council. The Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment proposes to set such a timetable for the review of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers’ activities: for the report of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinaha - 30 minutes, for the answers to questions, up to 40 minutes, for a report from the profile committee - up to 10 minutes, for talks from factions and committees - up to 5 minutes, i.e. within one hour 30 minutes. For the national deputies of Ukraine, up to 3 minutes, just 20 minutes. And the Prime Minister's closing word. Will there be other reasoning? Agree? The prime minister of Ukraine, Anatolia Kirilovich Kinah, is given the floor for this report. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u2	Dear national deputies, distinguished colleagues, invited! From the beginning of his work, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been focusing its efforts on strengthening the positive economic performances of 1999-2000. First of all, directly forming factors, mechanisms that are capable of increasing the competitiveness of the economy and the well-being of Ukrainian citizens. In 2001, the increase in gross domestic product reached 9 percent and zero percent. This level of economic growth is one of the largest countries in the GNI and Eastern Europe. What's important is that the highest rates were the growth rate of the agro-industrial sector, the manufacturing sector, especially machine-building, which allows us to gradually overcome the raw character of Ukraine's economy. Production of industrial products increased by 5.8 percent in the first half of this year, including a positive structural trend: products used extensively in January-June increased by 10.5 percent, machine-building production by 5. 7 percent, 10.6 percent of the agri-industrial complex. What's important is that the share of bartering operations in the four months of the current year is almost halved compared to the corresponding period last year, and today it's 4.6 percent, Thus, there is good reason to believe that macroeconomic growth is quite real in 2002 to the projected level. The government is taking action, and I want to stress in particular, the result will depend on the interaction of the legislative and executive authorities. With regard to overcoming the effects of the decline in the growth rate of the world economy, which had a negative impact primarily on the export sectors of the national economy of Ukraine, metallurgy, and the chemical industry. The decline in exports of these industries was compensated by the high rate of increase in supplies for agricultural, food, textile, and machinery exports. This enabled the country to maintain a positive balance of trade, maintain the stability of the national monetary unit, and virtually eliminate the need for new external government loans. A positive foreign trade surplus in the first quarter of the year reached $952 million. But at the same time, honourable national MPs, it should be noted that the main criterion for society's assessment of the effectiveness of State socio-economic policies is not the rise in gross domestic product and industrial production, but, above all, as a result of the state's development, public socio-economic policies have an impact on the increase in jobs, the increase in real wages, pensions and the confidence of citizens tomorrow. So the important issue of government economic policy remains to ensure a balanced level of inflation, which is one of the major factors in increasing the real income of the population. During 2001, consumer prices rose at the lowest rate during the period of independence of Ukraine. The inflation rate for 2001 was 6.1 percent, 4 times less than in 2000. During January-May there is a stable price situation. And in the last year and a half, 17 months, the total inflation rate in Ukraine was 4.3 percent. But we are concerned about this situation and it requires a deeper analytical, professional, systematic work to study the real state of affairs and the very coordinated actions of the government, the National Bank and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that this does not turn into a negative trend. In view of problems such as the low level of monetaryisation of Ukraine's economy and the relatively limited possibilities of financing the real economy sector, taking into account the real state of affairs with the level of capitalisation of the Ukrainian banking system. The important thing is that the potential of the internal market is gradually increasing over the last period. I would particularly like to draw our common attention to this, because a strong platable internal market is the basis of Ukraine's economic, political security, a reduction in Ukraine's dependence on external economic and political conditions. During January-May 2002, real rates of retail turnover increased by 18.1 percent plus the average wage increased by 18.3 percent. But it's very small, dear colleagues. At present, there is, in my opinion, an absolutely abnormal situation, a socially acute situation where the average wage in the state is virtually equal to the official subsistence minimum. That is, a professionally trained healthy person cannot earn more than an official subsistence minimum. And this problem needs to be worked very deeply at the highest level of government and gradually, based on the results of economic activity, it needs to be changed for the better as one of the top priorities of public policy. The increase in the income of the Pension Fund has resulted in an average increase of 58 percent in the last year. But it's going to depend on our work together, and we can't guarantee a further increase in the level of pensions just by increasing the fiscal pressure on the wage fund. Therefore, it is imperative that efforts be brought together and, in tighter periods, adopt a package of pension reform laws and gradually develop effective mechanisms, both to increase pensions and to function effectively in Ukraine as a whole. During 2001, and this trend is maintained, the amount of credit in the economy increased by almost 30 percent in real terms. Once again, however, there is a very deep systemic problem. Since April 4, 2002, the National Bank of Ukraine accounted for 10 per cent against commercial bank lending rates at an average of 27 per cent, which in no way met the need for a competitive economy in Ukraine that would like to work with the banking system on an economic reverse basis. So we have an important role to play in solving this problem, and these proposals have already been sent to Parliament in part, reducing the risk of financial investment. It is particularly important to increase the confidence of the population in the State's financial and banking system. The total population investment in the last year has practically doubled and is now reaching 13.7 billion dollars. This is a very serious investment resource. But the reserves are still huge. It should be noted that by the beginning of 2002, the total government external debt amounted to $110 billion and dropped by $225 million the previous year. We gave up mass borrowing in the internal market, thus releasing resources for the capitalization of the entrepreneurial industrial sector. Dear National Deputies! A very important part of this work is improving the budgetary relationship in Ukraine. The budget code adopted in June last year envisions new approaches to inter-budget relations, which are becoming more transparent, approved a new methodology for local budget planning, where the role and functions of local authorities in the budgetary process are clearly defined, and mechanisms are being created to stimulate those regions that have increased the income base of local budgets in recent years. It is certainly necessary to complete the transition to state control together through the State Treasury system of all budget resources and non-budgetary funds. Dear National Deputies! As I move on to the meaningful part of the program, I would especially like to point out the following. That in the context of tightening competition between nations for economic and political space we need to keep monitoring the quality of Ukraine's economic development in comparison with what is happening in the world. We need to understand objectively and clearly that we do not have the time to deal with the huge number of systemic problems. I want to give two examples as a clear indication of the seriousness and responsibility of the situation. For example, wages. May of this year. Ukraine is 65 dollars per person, Kazakhstan is 130 dollars per person, the Russian Federation is 137 dollars per person. I want to show you how serious this situation is. That's where citizen demand is paid, where investment is channelled, where conditions are formed for the development of the economy as a whole. So issues such as decision-making to reduce citizens' income tax rates, adoption of a tax code, clear, consistent work to sort out a huge amount of tax benefits -- these issues are top priority and directly affect the state of affairs of every Ukrainian citizen. Budget. Again, from the point of view of objective assessment of the quality of our condition. In Ukraine, about $200 per person in the current year, about $280 per person, and about $600 per person in the Russian Federation. You understand how serious this is and how much of the income part of the budget does not correspond to the scale of the economy of Ukraine and the depth of our socio-economic problems. So once again, when I look to you, I want to focus on this issue, which is absolutely necessary, very purposeful, professionally, working together on such issues as reducing the volume of shadow economy, huge material, financial resources are outside the state of transparent economy, the legalization of capital, issues that relate to very serious issues of creating favourable conditions in principle, by law to work in a convenient way. On the basis of the above, such issues as the raw appearance and structure of gross domestic product, the high energy efficiency of production, the moral and physical wear-down of basic funds, the lack of funding of science, education, health care, certainly a very small share of small and medium-sized business in the final results of Ukraine’s economy and other systemic problems require all of us, without wasting time, the formation of targeted long-term development trends of Ukraine, which should be based on, on one hand, our national interests and priorities, and on the other, on objective economic laws that operate independently of the state. Honourable National Deputies, the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers is developed in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the President's Letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, conceptual principles, the 2002-2011 economic social development strategy. Of course, we've been trying to build on our complex and very, in my opinion, valuable experience in recent years, and we've been trying to find a place in the program the basic principles of party and block programmes that have entered parliament and in the part where they fit in with national, national interests. The programme determines, firstly, the medium-term economic perspective of the country through the activation of quality growth factors; the active introduction of an investment and innovation model for the development of the economy of the State; the shift in emphasis on tax, budgetary and monetary credit from fiscal to stimulating; and the progressive provision of long-term sustainable human development. Taking into account the resource constraints, the sequential implementation of this strategy requires its phased concentration in strategic directions and the systematic work of all branches of government. It has to be noted that much of the base of the midterm strategy has been put in place in the previous period. The government's programme of action is a logical, systematic document for the further implementation of a defined strategy based on the legacy of positive results and the consolidation of efforts to address the problems that still exist in Ukraine. Thus, in developing the programme, the government focused on strengthening, primarily the regulatory environment and the introduction of mechanisms for the development of high-quality economic growth factors, namely poverty reduction, increased domestic demand based on increased business activity of the population, increased payability of Ukrainian citizens, reduced tax pressure on individuals, and the progressive achievement of social standards. Finally, it is necessary to determine that Ukraine has no right to be a state with a raw type of economy with a high scientific and industrial, technical, human potential. Therefore, the development of domestic and external markets for high-tech products, based on the active promotion of economic interests in external markets, the strengthening of national production and national interests, is also one of the main priorities proposed for programming. Of course, we need to step up structural changes in the real economy. First of all, based on the introduction of more effective depreciation policies, strengthening the banking system through medium-term and long-term lending mechanisms, increasing the level of monetaryization of the economy, activating the entire investment process. The government believes that we need to focus our efforts together on improving the organization of the management system. This problem has a very serious negative contribution to some of the issues that we are dealing with today. The governance system must be in line with economic, political, cultural distortions, including those that we need to go through in the direction of a worthy integration of Ukraine into the world, in the economic and political system, and be a competitive partner among the nations of the world. In our view, the main directions of action should remain and the transparency, openness and accountability of authority, constructive cooperation with the public should deepen. Gradually delegateing authority and responsibility to local executives, but with the strengthening of financial and material resources. The formation of professional and proactive personnel of government officials capable of providing for the work of the authorities in today’s conditions. We are confident that the success of the program should be ensured by mutual understanding and fruitful cooperation with the Supreme Council. This will allow an organic link between administrative reform and constitutional, judicial, administrative and territorial reform and ensure the adoption of all legislative acts necessary for the smooth progress of reforms. The government has tried to do so in addition to the project programme, in view of the need for effective legislative and regulatory mechanisms to implement the programme. Of course, we need, as one of the main priorities of the programmes, to work clearly together on the whole system of issues that enable people's well-being to be enhanced by strengthening the potential for economic growth. And the trends, such as the gradual deepening of the priorities of public policy for job creation, including, I'm paying attention, I mean, this is a huge problem for young people. I mean, we need to work out the first-place mechanisms for the graduates of vocational and technical schools, the secondary higher education institutions. Of course, it is necessary to work very seriously and to be able to work on the whole of today’s social protection system, social insurance. The key task is to improve the social welfare system by providing targeted assistance to the population. Unfortunately, we need to move away from the shameful phenomenon that still exists when millions of Ukrainian citizens lose their time, their health, trying to prove their right to some form of social assistance. It is necessary to develop a targeted system of social protection that responds to a person’s real physical condition and that enables him to get what is lawfully laid down and to be a host of these financial resources. This transition requires a lot of organizational work to create a legal and regulatory framework. We've started this work, we've approved the relevant software documents, and we have the hope of supporting the Supreme Council, because it's not only about improving social protection, it's about reducing the use of the financial resources of the budget, it's about the state. We need to work together on this issue, including the draft budget for 2003. In the area of health. The government sees the removal of imbalances in the provision of health care to the population. The following problems need to be finally addressed: the provision of drugs for diabetes, tuberculosis, cancer, and, in particular, the improvement of the public’s diagnosis system. The educational level of the population. Of course, further development of the education system requires substantial modernization, the introduction of new technologies, and the computerization of schools. The solution is investment in the future, and we need to improve and ensure that these issues are resolved together. I would especially like to point out that we need to work together, including not only in terms of education, health care, public youth policy, but primarily in order to reassure young people of tomorrow. And issues such as the development of social youth networks, the increasing role of young people in socio-economic development of the state, the support of youth entrepreneurship, the gifted youth, the lending of housing, and so on, are a very serious part of our efforts to improve the demographic situation. Special attention is being paid by the government in the program to improving issues related to the areas of technological safety. These issues, taking into account the huge downsizing of core funds, should be the focus of state attention. And measures aimed both at improving the protection of the population, improving the safety of production, protecting work, and mitigating the effects of technological disasters and phenomena. We offer special attention to addressing issues related to environmental safety regulation, both in Ukraine as a whole and in the environment. For this reason, the government is gradually proposing a more rigid and administrative policy, but strengthening it with economic market values to stimulate all directions to increase environmental security. Dear colleagues! Of course, the solution to these more important issues will depend on the system of economic, financial, tax, social regulators, which are also laid down in both the content of the programme and the mechanisms for its implementation. This is primarily the adoption of the Tax Code. We understand how serious this is, so given the need to update the tax base for purposes and to form a real budget, the government is sending to the Supreme Council a package of bills on improving the tax system, which have in mind both the reduction in the taxation of the income of individuals and the improvement of the direct taxation of taxes on added value, income, excise collection. These issues can be resolved only by uniting efforts, and we hope that you will support and make proposals that will enhance the effectiveness of our joint decisions. Of course, an innovative, investment component of the economy is one of the highest priorities of the program. It has to be noted that today we have no doubt that the future of Ukraine's development, the competitiveness of the economy will depend on how much together we can move from the state of consumption of material, financial resources to development strategies, to the strategy of developing a modern competitive economy. So on this issue in the program, we're giving a lot of attention and we're proposing a whole set of measures. I would like to point out that trends such as improving privatization, supporting small and medium-sized businesses, which are very important for Ukraine with both social problems and socio-political stability, should also be one of the priorities. And there's a package of suggestions that lets us achieve the right results. Of course, we need to agree with you on some of the principles. For example, I would ask your support to continue to deepen the direction that relates to the inadmissibility of using financial resources from privatizing strategic enterprises in full consumption. The language goes on to say that strategic objects are acquisition and the future of generations. That is why the government, and in the core budget policy project, we are grateful for the approval of the Budget Resolution, and in the state budget project next year will offer you an effective use of resources from privatization, primarily for technical, technological upgrades of core funds, energy conservation, improved efficiency of the economy. We also propose that we work together to work on appropriate legislation that deals with targeted privatization baskets and is ready to work with you on this issue. Of course, sectoral problems are also reflected in the program. Ukraine’s coal industry should be one of the top priorities in the country as an important component of Ukraine’s energy security. Moreover, we propose, and the appropriate decisions have already been made, to change in some way the ideology of approaches. The restructuring of mines cannot be considered as a physical closure. We need to understand that the future of the coal sector is only when the volumes of new major production capacities are ahead of the pace of slowing down those productions that are unprofitable. And restructuring is a set of problems that need to be solved, starting with financial recovery, the creation of new jobs, the socio-environmental protection of the population. Dear colleagues! It's a very important issue of the fuel-energy complex. Ukraine is gradually taking steps to make the whole world and Europe realize that we are an integral part of Europe’s energy security. These issues will need to be resolved together, including through conceptual approaches that reflect the national interests of Ukraine. And to the end. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Friends! The urgent needs that are proposed to address the content of the programme are primarily reflected in the need to adopt the programme as a technological, pragmatic document, which is filled with implementation mechanisms, a legislative and regulatory framework and a security resource. The government understands how strong political competition is in Parliament, outside Parliament. The government understands that we need to go through an even more difficult way of structuring Parliament to form a majority, which is gearing its energies towards the interests of people and the state, so in the light of the above, the government supports the draft decision proposed by the Economic Policy Committee, the management of the national economy, which provides for a more meaningful approach and consideration of the programme, taking into account the additions and proposals of the Supreme Council, in parallel with the formulation of the 2003 National Budget project of Ukraine, the basis of the country's socio-economic development. In order for the document to be operational, pragmatic and to give us the need and opportunity to increase all aspects of Ukraine's life. The government is ready to continue to strengthen its cooperation with the Supreme Council, primarily through a united effort to resolve the state-wide problems in the name of Ukraine’s prosperity, to increase the well - being of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinaha. Let's take a look at the board. Thank you. National Deputy of Ukraine Samofalov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Vladimir Pehote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u5	Infantry National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u6	"European Choice," Infantry Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u7	Please don't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u8	I'm sorry, Anatoly Kirilovich. I say that I witnessed nine government programs. The task is very difficult for the program to enjoy, so that the program will benefit the Ukrainian people in general, so that the result will be a lot of questions. Please tell me, I have only one question as a representative of the Committee on Budgets. There's normally goals, there's a problem, there's a result that's going to work. And the cost has been calculated? Will there be any funds to implement this program? Because a lot of the programs, they stayed declarative because the funding wasn't provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u9	Thank you. I agree with you that unfortunately, there is already a joke in the world that Ukraine today is a leader in the number of programmes adopted per capita. The government therefore particularly insists that the program be not a declaration or concept but a pragmatic, technological document based on implementation mechanisms, tasks, deadlines, responsible and resource support. The government has made calculations for the Ukrainian Cabinet's project, but once again, I would like to stress that the adoption of the government's program, and I'm sure for all of us, is not an end in itself. We need a working document that reflects the priorities of state development. We agree that, together with the Supreme Council, on the basis of proposals already made by committees, factions, individual national deputies, working in the form of a draft budget for 2003, we will fill in even more qualitative content, including resource provision, such as the increase and reliability of the final results that people and the state are waiting for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u10	National Deputy Bastrig, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u11	80th Precinct, Bastiga Ivan Mihajlovich. Anatoly Kirilovich, be good, we're all in the room and you're the President of the Government, and the whole Government is concerned about the very large amount of VAT debt. Has the Government analysed the causes of the phenomenon, since the adoption of what legislation, this trend has gone up sharply? Is there concrete action to address this programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u12	Thank you. Together with the national deputies, the government has worked out and passed a bill to the Supreme Council, which provides for a solution to the urgent issues of improvement, both administration and in the entire system of taxation, including the creation of mechanisms to unconditionally account for the tax payer’s negative VAT balance. I agree with you that this problem has not only arisen in the current year, the value added tax is a very serious tool, and when the value added tax changes should be calculated in all directions, starting with the level of payability of consumers, both people and businesses, the quality of the banking system, the access of economic operators to medium and long-term credit, the situation of circulation costs, the level of monetaryisation of the economy and the mass of other factors. Unfortunately, about two years ago, when we took sufficient critical steps to introduce VAT on energy, to conduct VAT rates on some services that have a bearing on the consumer market. We haven't worked, including in the framework of VAT legislation, effective measures to combat the shadow sector, with dirty money, we have a very balanced system, which is also affected by the existence of a huge amount of value added tax benefits. The question is urgent. The bill has been introduced to Parliament, also supported by the President of Ukraine as an urgent one, we would ask very much in these days before the holidays to work with us in a fruitful, effective way so that this can be included in the 2003 budget structure, and we have gradually solved this problem, which has a very negative impact on the financial situation of businesses in Ukraine, especially exporters and the Government, ready for such fruitful cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u13	Plutinski People's Deputy, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. May I have the floor to the national deputy Yuri Carmazin?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u15	National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u16	Dear Anatoly Kirilovich, I'd like to hear what I didn't see in the program is what the government is planning to do to stop the destruction of the economy, which is due to the non-return of value added tax. It's as if foreign agents are doing all of this. And then I'd like to give the floor to Stoyan, who protects the interests of the unions and the Ukrainian people from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u17	With regard to the value added tax, I have already responded thoroughly enough, so I would like to ask Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u18	Dear Anatoly Kirilovich, a loving program is the first solution to the issue of man's work. I looked closely at the program, wondering if there was no chapter on social protection. That's why I have a question. In line with the President's message, we have a disgraceful phenomenon like 24.4 percent of the population is poor and 12 percent are extremely poor. And it's defined. That the poverty line is total income per person 176 dollars. Today, all categories of people working below this poverty line -- over 12 million abroad, minimum wage -- reminding me -- 165 dollars, below the poverty line, four million below the poverty line, families with children far below the poverty line. So the first question is, how does the government program provide for the elimination of this disgraceful phenomenon, like poverty, what is the final term? The second short question. Anatoly Kirilovich, you rightly said that today, 368 dollars is a minimum of living, and the average wage is about 368. But we do have a Constitution that requires that the minimum wage be at the minimum wage. The government you lead is strongly opposed to setting a minimum wage since 2003 at least 70 percent of the minimum wage. At least 70 percent! Do you support the position of the unions so that the minimum wage is on the level of living and when will it be? And the third question, Anatoly Kirilovich. Today, debt in the manufacturing sector is several billion dollars. Yesterday we voted for the 15th article so that the salary would be the first pay. I know that UCP supports this, the unions have asked for support. But the pro-Yedu government deputies voted against it. So once again, wages won't pay millions of people. Do you agree that the salary should be the primary payment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u19	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. I personally, and the government, I fully share the concerns that apply to the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens. Moreover, despite some positive results in the last period, we consider this problem to be one of the priorities. [[The account tells us about them]] Because the problem of poverty is not just the constant pressure of social, economic, domestic problems on Ukrainian citizens, the problem of poverty is humiliating to the state. And very often and very often the impression of Ukraine is formed on the basis of this humiliating enough to take account of Ukraine's potential as a question of poverty. But the government will never take populist political steps, promises that have no real impact on Ukraine's economy, its efficiency, its financial, its material resources. We're willing to deepen this cooperation with the unions, to take our decisions into account in all the components of tax, social, budgetary, financial policy, in view of the fact that this is our common goal -- in as short a time as possible in systemic, professional solutions, by creating favourable conditions for economic development -- to gradually overcome the problem of poverty in Ukraine. All the social parameters, including the ones you've formulated, we're ready on the basis of concrete calculations, looking for optimal solutions to look for and, together with you, to approve as a state policy. What is involved in the primary wage is the question. But I would very much ask that when we look at this issue, we move away from the emotional and political approach, and only on the basis of calculations, how the change in the cash flow system, including the budget needs, will affect all the population categories, including the payment of salaries in the budget area. The government is willing to deepen these calculations along with you, as we will find the optimal option, of course it will be supported if it meets the interests of the balance of the financial system and the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u20	The answer to that question was, please Boris Illich Oilynik, the Communist faction. Oily Boris Illich, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u21	Reverend Anatoly Kirilovich, you're better off than anyone else who knows the problem of a Crevice mining enrichment combination of oxidized ores. Underfunding from the State Budget has led to an annual salary debt of some 5 million today. It is hard to believe that talking to people who come to ask for money for medicine, for funerals, and the directorate is powerless to help them. As a witness, this was done on an object in person. The State budget for 2002 allocated only 3 million dollars. This is not even a drop in the sea, but the symbolic cost is delayed. I'd like to ask you, Your Honor Anatoly Kirilovich, to contribute to the recalculation of the direction of the combination of the 3 million bracelets allocated to the Metallurgy Day on July 21st. Otherwise, the workers of the combination can get rid of the last reserve of patience. Thank you for your attention, and please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u22	Thank you. The curly mining enrichment combine is an unfinished construction that has accumulated a huge number of problems since the Soviet Union. But based on the calculations that are in the government, consultation with our partners, because this is a building that was built on the basis of interstate cooperation, we see that there is a future in the combination. And in view of the forecast of the conjuncturing of its production in the world’s markets, it is certainly necessary to build a combination. Moreover, it is a unique opportunity to upgrade the basic funds, the physical and moral decay of which is enormous, especially in Kriubas. The government has submitted a bill to Parliament following the decree of the President of Ukraine. We would like to consider it as an urgent one, which provides direction, both to invest in the construction of the combination and to be more rigid and legislatively supportive of the completion of this very important construction. We would like to consider this law so that it is also the basis of our fiscal policy for the following year. As far as the current issues are concerned, I'm making commitments, we're definitely going to solve them, because on every issue, it's human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u23	People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! I will not blame you for all the troubles and sins that Ukraine has experienced today. This is a disaster for previous governments. Moreover, your government is not full of blood, because even the heads of executive powers in the areas do not have areas as well. But that's the question I'm worried about. That's right. In 1990, the Poles and I were on the same level of living, perhaps even better, because we took everything there. They're coming from there today. They have a three-fold budget today if we have a dollar bill. They have a $250-300 pension today, and they have an average wage of $500 today. That's right, they were comparing us there with some Asian states. We have the greatest relationship with the Poles. What's the reason that they don't have brown fossils? There's no metallurgy like us. There's no better airplanes, there's no tanks in the world. What is the basic reason why we found ourselves in such a disgraceful state compared with the Poles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u25	Thank you. I am confident that no systemic problem that we are discussing today, the issue of poverty, the improvement of the tax system, social protection, the formation of conditions for investment growth, cannot be resolved solely by the President, alone by the government or only by Parliament. These systemic problems can be solved only on the basis of the political will of all branches of government, the unification of efforts in the name of human and state interests. And I think that the positive indicators that are today not only in Poland, but in the Baltic States, Central, Eastern Europe, in our neighbour, the Russian Federation, on the basis of these indicators is the gradual strengthening of political stability, the interaction of branches of government, the increasing of all components, the competitiveness of the state. And what's very important about hard competition when each state chooses its place under the sun is to perform the main function of the state, to protect and promote national economic and political interests, which is impossible without united efforts by branches of government in Ukraine. And when I was pointing out that when we appreciate a situation in Ukraine, we need -- you're absolutely right -- to see what a good distance between us and the world that surrounds us. Once it starts to grow, we need to do everything we can to make sure that it doesn't happen, because then it will feel the negative effects and the future generation. So once again, at the heart of future development, this is primarily political stability, the consolidation of branches of power and, of course, the support of society for those actions, those decisions that we make in both legislative and executive branches of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u26	National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of Ukrainian Agriculture. Dear colleagues, when you're formulating your questions, I'd like to invest in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u27	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Clothing, Ukrainian Agrarian faction. Dear Anatoly Kirilovich, it is very good that the program has its priorities. And these are the priorities for creating macroeconomic conditions for the sustainable development of the national economy. One is the removal of obstacles to the introduction of incentives to protect investor rights. But according to the analysis, the smallest investment is invested in agriculture. One reason, we think, is the volatility in the price of agriculture and material resources. So for example, over the last few months, prices for animal production have dropped by 3-4 times, fuel prices have risen by 50-60 percent, which makes it impossible to run the farm effectively. What will the government do about it? And as a continuation, the second question is this. Will there be a standing price for grain this year? And will this mortgage cost exceed its production costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u28	Thank you very much. Ukraine's agro-industrial complex in the last period, and based on these results, the hard and hard work of peasants, gives a very high rate of growth in production volumes, on the average, about 10-12 percent. We need to take the next step today, I fully agree with you, to form a modern agri-industrial infrastructure, a system that foresees financial, economic and competitiveness gains. The government proposes the following as a first step. First of all, we are grateful to Parliament for the adoption of the Grain Market Act. The government has been working on a system of measures that envisions the use of a set price mechanism already this year. We need to work out a system of transparent, modern commodity markets. We need to work very seriously on creating conditions, such as the minimum, medium-term lending of an agro-industry complex, taking into account the characteristics and seasonal cycle of production and production. The government will continue to deepen the support of the APC in such ways as the exchange of credit resources, the maintenance of livestock, especially the issue of selection, risk insurance. All these issues are identified, including in the relevant government decisions in the current year. We would ask not only the basic committee of Parliament on the agro-industry complex, but the whole Parliament, together with the government, to improve these mechanisms, especially on issues related to the promotion of products in the external markets, where there is severe competition. I want to give an example of when Europe experienced the pressure of Ukrainian wheat this season, the reaction was instantaneous. First, in February, French farmers were insured, and in April, Eurocomisia introduced import duties on feed grains from Ukraine and from other countries. This is a powerful example that we need to combine efforts to protect and promote our Ukrainian exporters, especially in the agribusiness complex. And the government also sees these proposals in the Cabinet Program that we are considering today. Once again, the question is of paramount importance. And we've only taken the first small step so far to form an effective competitive agro-industry complex, and we need to do everything we can not to lose the positive results we have, but to deepen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u29	National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u30	It's a faction of socialists. Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! Today, it's no longer a secret in Ukraine that the economic crisis is the Ukrainian crisis, because the Cabinet of Ministers, which is represented today, is one, and the Cabinet of Ministers of the President's Administration, who is actually in charge of everything and is not responsible for anything, is another, I'm not talking about shadow cabinets of ministers anymore. After yesterday's speeches after the prosecutor's approval, everyone was talking about making changes to the Constitution. The Socialist Party faction initiates changes to the Constitution, the adoption of a law on elections on a proportional basis, to form the Cabinet of Ministers, where it still gives weight to the rule of strong executive power and so forth. We talked to you about this last night at the faction, and this question was asked by Alexander Alexander Moroz. Please tell me whether your factions or your party members will be with whom you went to the election to vote for the changes in the Constitution and those laws that we talked about for increasing constitutional responsibility and for forming strong executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u31	I thank you very much, and this has been said in the report, but the problem is important, and I reiterate the importance of improving the system of government. You can adopt a quality, professional law, a balanced system program, but when these issues are not based on an effective management system, on the availability of qualified staff of government managers, there will be no result. That's why the government's draft program also singles out this issue as one of the priorities, and we've proposed a whole range of measures, one of the first bills that we need to adopt, in our opinion, is the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is very important in terms of responsibility and organization of work. And certainly, as a Ukrainian citizen, I would very much like us to get closer to the time when both in the Ukrainian Constitution and in legislation and in Parliament there will be a majority who are politically responsible for the results of their work to the Ukrainian people, together with the President forming the Cabinet of Ministers and thus responds to what the Constitution requires in terms of the effectiveness of the structure of government in general. This question will certainly be supported, but the prohibition, God, that under the pressure of short - term ambitions we have begun to change the Constitution of the State without systematically. This must be done in conjunction with all the elements of the state’s development and the nearness of Ukraine to the modern rule of law with the developed economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u32	National Deputy Dashutin, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, as well as "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u33	Dear Anatoly Kirilovich, what impresses us is that the first chapter contains the concept of "Work Market." Then comes Money and Wage, and the third city is Social Security. Why? Because we've been seeing for 10 years the goal of social protection, and the populism that we've seen before, we see that today 30 percent of the budget should go to the grant, we see that we can't do it because unemployment is 11 percent, and so the algorithm has to be like this: first the job and then the social protection. So I have this question about whether there's enough effort today, and it's really not just a goal to set up, to go to address aid. Why? Because, remember, when the 2002 budget was adopted, the Hall voted for only 32 billion, which should provide the benefits. Hence, help is urgently needed today to address a particular individual who is in need of help. Enough of this government today, at large, in step and trend.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u34	Thank you very much. And the direction of improving social protection through the transition to targeted social protection is one of the most important. The government has already taken the first steps in the current year, and we hope for your support. In the draft program, there are measures, in additions -- the laws that we need to adopt -- information about the approval of the government's already decision on the implementation of the targeted social protection system. I would very much like to see this issue as one of the highest priorities in the work, the interaction of the legislative and executive authorities. I am sure that we have huge reserves in this system, we have the opportunity to bring targeted social protection primarily to those citizens who, on objective terms in their lives, need this protection under legislation. Clearly, this requires, in addition to professional approaches, and mutual political will. I hope we have it, because every step we take in this direction, first of all, in the interests of the people, in the interests of the citizens of Ukraine that you represent in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u35	Zarubinsky People's Deputy, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear Anatoly Kirilovich, in your statement, you stressed the need for constructive cooperation between the government and parliament to implement both tactical and strategic tasks to improve the socio-economic situation in Ukraine. But do you not think that there should be a consolidated responsibility for the executive and legislative branches of power for what is happening in the economy and in the social sphere? Why do I ask that? I was asked this question yesterday by the Committee on Budgets: the implementation of the 2001 State Budget Act, where the second item is known to be unsatisfactory. But here in the same paper, in an analytical conclusion on page 13 black in white, and this is the analytical conclusion made by the same budget committee, I read, "The state of revenue in the budget has been adversely affected by the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Payment of Payments to Budgets and State Objective Funds in the past year." This law was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I stress, on December 21, 2000. And according to this law, 4 and a half billion dollars were suspended in 2001 as of 1 January 2002, and a total tax debt of 15.4 billion dollars was written off. The comments are unnecessary. But, Anatoly Kirilovich, I wondered who voted, who is the author of this decree, and who, say, voted in favour of that law on December 21, 2000. It turns out that virtually all the authors and initiators of the decree voted on December 21, 2000, in favour of this law, which had such an impact on budget execution. So the question is perhaps rhetorical. Is there a mechanism of consolidated responsibility, rather than translating responsibility to one of the branches of authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u37	I thank you very much and I would like to stress in particular that I am personally and government ready to report on any direction of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the report both to society and to the President, and to the Supreme Council. We will always support our efforts to listen to the government report, as it is based on the search for common objective solutions, a more objective situation and, of course, the improvement of all elements of State economic policy. But unfortunately, when these directions of the report are shaped by the principle of political order, by the principle of trying to exacerbate the social and political situation, destabilize the work of the executive power, I think it's not in favour of the Ukrainian people and the state in the first place. I'm not going to judge and I'm sure that together we all need to move to a direction of cooperation that should be based, first of all, not on narrow-minded personal political goals and ambitions, but on trying to work in a way that is in the public, public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u38	National MP Gavrish, group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u39	Stepan Gavrish, group of Democratic Initiatives. Dear Anatoly Kirilovich, I'd like to ask you three questions. In the first chapter of Enhancing the Efficiency of State Administration, you're talking about continuing security and so on working with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, various documents are being initiated in the Supreme Council to create a parliamentary majority. However, the government does not mention this political category in its program. Does this not mean that the government does not see the prospect of creating a parliamentary majority and cooperating with it tomorrow? And does the government see the need to initiate itself through an institutional reform programme where the government would not remain an orphan in the Ukrainian State's social development strategy? The second question is actually about your statement, where you said that the problem with Ukrainian time is the limitation of developmental resources, but then you said that we have a strong scientific and technological potential for this development. I don't want to talk about Japan, Korea, which doesn't really have a resource for domestic development, but they have created conditions for a great, powerful programme for the development of their nation. I want to talk about Greece, Portugal, which, without having its natural resources, stockpiles such as Ukraine, at the same time initiate modern, let's say, development programmes that are quite high European. And one last question. You're talking about reducing poverty. You couldn't call us what level of poverty in Ukraine, and what government sees concrete statistical, economic output from the poverty collapse that exists in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u40	Thank you very much. Within the limits of its powers, taking into account the balance of responsibility of the branches of power, the government will do its utmost to gradually form a viable majority in Parliament, including, on this basis, to organise with you the adoption of laws that would allow for the improvement of both the state administration system and the entire executive branch, including the government of Ukraine. Once again, dear friends, this is one of the most important issues. And in order for this huge potential to work effectively, which is in Ukraine, we absolutely need to address the question of the professional constructive interaction of branches of power. This will also depend on another direction: the question of filling a declaration of investment direction with specific structural investment content. And this also requires the work of branches of authority agreed upon. This also requires the adoption of the necessary laws governing the financial sector, banking activities that enable a competitive subject to the economy and investment credit. What's more, it requires us to have a high will, a concentration of effort in that priority direction, in those scientific technologies, in that product with a high intellectual property component, where eventually Ukraine will also take its place in the world co-authorism. We offered a package of these proposals. We are ready to complement yours and I fully support you that this is an urgent matter. We need to move on to the plane of development strategy. Without this competitive economy, there will be no economy. And on the third question. Please remind me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u41	Stepan Bogdanovich, would you mind asking me a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u42	Stepan Bogdanovich, by social standards? All of this is interconnected. The government has set up those macroeconomic social indicators that we see real over the next 1.5-2 years, but this is certainly not true in the last instance. I really wanted to outnumber them and, based on the results of economic activity, to achieve higher social standards, including in stricter terms, to gradually address poverty. By which we can make comparable assessments, I think we need to address this issue first in the plane that each country, the partners of Ukraine, is our tough competitor at the same time. And it's impossible to allow a gap and an increase in the quality distance on this issue between those states that are our main competitors. It's Central, Eastern Europe, it's SND. And here, monitoring should be very responsible and very clear with a proper response to decision-making at the highest level of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u43	National Deputy Lechchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u44	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Anatoly Kirilovich, in fact, according to statistics, well, the size of it, means the increase in production in the agro-industrial complex. But we know that for the most part, it's processed industries, including the price factor, because the purchase price for milk is roughly equal to the price of raw materials in the store. However, its part of the agro-industrial complex in agriculture is given little attention in the program. So we've been looking into this issue on the committee. And the vice-premier of the agro-industry complex told us that the government means stability for three years of agricultural production. We can see it as fooling around in the city. Doesn't the government realize that a highly developed agriculture can bring out not only processing but the whole economy as a whole? And the second question. Yesterday we made a decree to promote, prevent desertification in African countries. And we also have desertification in the south and in the middle of Ukraine. We're in a risk-of-harvesting zone, and we're in a pitiful state. This problem is becoming a global one and needs a separate solution. What are some of the purposes of this government issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u45	Thank you. I agree with you that an agro-industrial complex has enormous potential as a saturation of the internal market and especially export supply. A major expertise exists in the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine. We've been working for a lot of years, unfortunately, in terms of production deficits, now that we've had a pretty high output from the increase in production in the APC, we're having a problem with sales. And we need to do everything at the highest level of government, including the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, to work on the modern market for agro-industrial products. Part of the increase in quantity will be compensated by the increase in demand in the internal market, but the left-hand piema weight is the external markets. And to that end, we need to do everything: both the legislation, and the government's decision, and the financial system, and the banking system -- in order to increase the competitiveness of the Ukrainian agrarian exporter and hard-core, to protect national interests in the external markets. The future of development in the field also depends on it. I suggest and I'm sure the committee understands this, to concentrate on this direction. Of course, the issues that relate to an important part of the agro-industry issue, I would like to pay particular attention to that and ask the support committee. We've adopted the Earth Code -- it's an important decision, but in my opinion, and I'm not alone in that view, we need to work together now under the direction that would allow for the adoption of a package of laws for the implementation of the Earth Code, especially in the area of land protection as a national acquisition. For the earth was to be made subject to market relations, and such a system of land use needed to be worked out so that in due course we could hand it over to our children and future generations. And this is the task, this task is very hard on both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. I would also like to take this into account in our further work together, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u46	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. Question time's up. Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. Anatoly Kirilovich, time for questions is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u47	I thank you very much for the constructively meaningful questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment - Demiohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich. In 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u49	Dem Hein Vladimir Anatoljevic - First Vice-Chairman of the Committee, People's Government. Respectable leaders of the Supreme Council, distinguished people's deputies, respected leaders of the Government. The rostrum on which I am intended is not to be, and cannot be, an easy place for the rapporteur, especially because this is a place of focus and we know with you how many problems we have. The search for the required solutions is most often difficult, but even in the light of the preamble, the consideration of the Government's programme of activities continued for a month and led to difficult discussions. On the one hand, it was critical.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u50	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u51	the quality of the document, on the other hand, has a serious impact on the decision on the programme in order to find opportunities for constructive close cooperation with the Government and ultimately to have a fairly high-quality and effective programme of joint action. I should like to point out that all the regulatory procedures that should accompany the consideration of the draft order have been implemented are summarized by written proposals from the six relevant committees, one deputated faction. With all differences, there are many comments and suggestions to the Cabinet of Ministers. Some comments are, practically, present in each section of the programme. The findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific Executive Office are carefully assessed. In general, it should be noted that the programme is sufficiently compatible with the basic provision of the President's message to the Supreme Council. The programme covers the main activities of the Government, with a total of 19. Part of the provisions of political parties and blocs represented in the Supreme Council were reflected. Perhaps from the latter, unfortunately, there has also been a very generalized form of the programme. Even in the light of the programme's objectives and implementation mechanisms as defined in the annexes to the main text, it cannot be said that the level of synthesis of the material has been very well chosen. I will note that annex 2 contains a list of 146 bills that the Government considers necessary to develop and adopt for the legislative implementation of the programme, and annex 3 contains 210 programme documents at a lower hierarchical level. These are State-wide integrated scientific and technological programmes. The programme was likely to be expected and expected, together with a large number of bills initiated, to increase management decisions based on a meaningful analysis of government policy. The practice of recent years has provided us with many examples of government programmes and documents containing, indeed, the necessary proposals, but they have been built on a sufficiently high level of commonality. And I'd say declarative. The specific decisions taken in the implementation of these proposals often contradicted the original design of the programme itself. Quite often, and we know that the Cabinet of Ministers is moving into manual management of the people's economy and even a particular enterprise. During the 11 years of our State's independence, we should finally introduce the procedure and form of presenting the Cabinet of Ministers'programme of activities. I mean some standard for the preparation of the program. This must be a dry instrument of an instructive nature without declarations and emotions. It must not change every time on the root; it must be improved, refined, periodically considered. It appears that a special programme procedure should be developed to be implemented in several phases and synchronized with the budgetary process. It is very important today to objectively show where we are from the point of view of the quality of software management. That's what this is about. The programme text is saturated with a large number of systemic terminology. Its design also claims to be systemic. In fact, however, there is a somewhat limited presence of systemivity. The programme does not answer the question of what basic methodological principles it is based on. The programme does not fully implement the risk assessments in its implementation, both in general and in individual elements, the programme's location in the long-term development strategy of the State and the specific stages of its implementation, the assessment of the resources required, their sources, is weak. What is the central point in the programme: where is the money? In our view, only in the investment innovation model will there be sources of funding for the programme. In such circumstances, of course, it is somewhat difficult to manage and monitor the implementation of the programme. It should be noted that a programme has been built using a functional rather than a departmental principle. It's a positive moment. However, in almost every important position programme, we clearly distinguish between the presence of a departmental organizational approach. This reduces the level of systemivity of the program. The adjustment measures, the deformity of the industrial complex, have not been sufficiently reflected. I recall that the seventh section of the President's message to the Supreme Council defines the implementation of radical measures to replace adverse industrial imbalances as an urgent task. We know that over the past 10 years the share of the fuel and energy complex has grown from 17 to 60 per cent, while, for example, the share of engineering products has decreased from 26 to 13. The same is true of the light, food industry, whose share of products fell from 37 to 20 per cent. The programme contains insufficient specific measures to address the country's economy's high energy intensity of gross domestic product. Emphasis should be placed on the fact that the problem of high energy intensity of GDP is exacerbated, among other things, by low efficiency in the agricultural sector. The high proportion of arable land combined with low yields leads in practice to significant fuel costs, agricultural production. Among the Government's measures on monetary income and wages are those identified by the President in his message as essential. A section on environmental protection was not sufficiently developed. It is weakly aware of the corporate nature of ideology, the mutual link between environmental factors for development and economic, social and social. As one of the key tasks of the Government in investment policy is to create an enabling environment for attracting investment in the country's economy. This task requires the introduction of international standards for the regulation of the stock market and the financial services market. However, annex 2 to the programme does not contain an annex on this issue, despite the critical source of the programme's resources. The Government's proposed policy for the introduction of an innovative development model was an impression that the proposed solution was partial. Indeed, we are dealing with preparatory processes for the introduction of an innovative development model. In our view, when it comes to sources of funding, it is best to talk about the investment innovation approach to the Government's programme. The estimates of the expected results of Ukraine's economic and social development also draw attention to them because they are presented in quantitative terms. However, it should be noted that it remains unclear whether these indicators are as achievable as possible, under what conditions they have been calculated, whether the calculation has taken into account particularly external economic risks? The macroeconomic indicators of the programme are generally consistent with those contained in the messages of the President of Ukraine. A considerable number of proposals remain outside my report. We believe that they have a place in the working process, which I think will begin immediately after today's meeting in close cooperation with the Government. There's just no other way, dear colleagues. What major conclusions they would like to draw, they do not claim to be complete, but we believe that the work programme presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today will not be fully approved in its present form. The drawback of the programme is that it violates a number of basic requirements of system management and, above all, insufficiently clearly identifies the sources of resource support. I mean, where's the money? Proposals adopted by the Committee: The program of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is to be accepted. Ukraine’s Cabinet to finalize the programme, taking into account the comments and proposals made by legal entities, and to submit to the Supreme Council after the adoption of Ukraine’s 2003 State Budget. For the sake of objectivity, I should like to point out that we have considered two proposals, two draft regulations, on the Committee. One of the projects was, "Approval to the main program and work with comments and suggestions." This program was supported by our National Authority MP's group. But the result was a majority vote on the program that I gave you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u52	Thank you, Volodymyr Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. I ask you to put on board those who sign up for the factions of factions and committees. Please. Dear colleagues! There's a suggestion that we don't take a break, that we finish this at 13 o'clock. Is there no objection? Let's start with the factions. Is there no objection? National Deputy Gurov of the faction of the peoples of the country. Prepare the Kosovo People's Deputy from the faction "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u53	Vadim Gurov, 32 constituency, Krivbass, People's Landing faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! Dear members of the Cabinet of Ministers! First of all, in order not to waste much time, I would like to point out that all the general and specific comments and conclusions on the programme for the further work of the Cabinet of Ministers are very professional - I stress, professionally and economically reflected in the findings prepared by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. I mean, I think it's one of their best works. It is distributed to all deputies and therefore it does not seem possible to repeat what is said, but it does not make sense. Now, let's get to the bottom of this. Many questions were clarified and the statement by Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich was made yesterday. Our industrial policy committee met with the First Vice-Prime Minister, and there were many responses. However. However, what would I like to emphasize in my statement? Yeah, we have a big industry, and today was a very interesting question. Why the '90s is the starting line. There was one life in Poland. There was another life in Ukraine. How good it was. Why did they change in 10 years, so to speak, with plates? I mean, yeah, we have a rich metal industry that's rich in everything. But what I'm saying is, I wish we didn't have that kind of wealth. You'll understand, 14 metalworks combined, two tons of iron ore was mined by a Ukrainian in 1990, two tons, one tons of steel. And all that's left for us, and it's got to work. We have 80 per cent of the defence assembly plants. And they're all left. So to compare Poland and Ukraine, I think it's a completely useless exercise. What would I like to emphasize? First of all, among the many issues that concern me is my personal opinion: this is a matter of structural deformation and complexion and energy intensity. What's going on? At all levels of television, we see how our government works, we travel all the time, then to Russia, then to Turkmenistan, we extract, we extract gas. And the question is, who's given any thought, and what are we doing with this gas, what are we doing with this oil? Because the energy intensity of one percent of GDP is twice that of Russia. And Russia has never been a reference point in this matter. We have 13 times the energy intensity in Japan, Germany and the United States. So the question is, what are we doing? It's endless shopping. Question one: How do we need to change the structure of our industry? For this purpose, attention must first be paid to the mining and metallurgical complex. Even in this programme, there is a difference between aircraft construction, construction, agriculture, engineering, and automotive. I mean, I totally disagree. Yes, indeed, there is a prospect and a flag in their hands. But Ukraine was, will be, and will be -- it's land, it's metal, it's what our country is holding on to. If we miss the mining complex, I want to say, all the programs: health, sports, retirement -- it's all going to be just one conversation. That's why we're still in the program, and I didn't actually see the mining complex. He's gone! There's everything, I want a "harcho," but there's no basis from which to go. Therefore, if we continue not to change the structure of the mining complex, I say with this high demand, we will not succeed. That's one question. The second question is the management of the State party. Someone was wondering why the "Criminal" combination is a 100 percent state-owned enterprise. We didn't privatize, we didn't. This is a quarter of our production, and what results! The only business that is profitable under the same conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u54	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u55	Which makes a profit that makes a difference, you have to think about it. We've lost control of public property too early. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u56	National Deputy Costenko, from the "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u57	Dear Head, Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues! The position of the "Our Ukraine" faction on the presented program is based on its comparative analysis with that of the previous Yushchenk Government. Why the previous one? Because first of all, both governments were formally working on executing the President with whom he won the 1999 election. And secondly, the previous government has achieved the biggest positive shifts in Ukraine in the history of independence. So the principle difference between the two programs is their strategic orientation. The government of Yushchenka for the first time, that is, a citizen, or, as the expression “little Ukrainian” once said, was recognized as the highest value of the state and the entire system of priorities of the program was aimed at improving its life. In the present program, everything is like the good old days: the priority is not the citizen, but the people who often call the program the population. And it's not hard to predict the outcome of this strategy, because the history of "power of the people" is the greatest in the world. [[in quotes]] It is not surprising, therefore, that the program of an active government does not have such important policies as ensuring the security of a person, the quality of life of a person, the satisfaction of the intellectual and spiritual needs of a person, the problems of the state and the church, the state and the diaspora. On the other hand, the programme does not reveal many other aspects of government policy, such as the lack of specifics on tax and budgetary reforms, monetary policy, small and medium-sized business development and competition, pension reforms, European integration, which has become or is not the main priority of the President's last letter. Now two more practical comparisons of the work of the governments of Yashchenk and Kinakh, especially since their activities are almost identical. We know that energy policy for any government is a top priority, because it also depends on the work of the economy and the cost of the budget. At a time when the previous government, with the aim of diversifying energy sources and providing Ukraine with new financial opportunities for the transit of Caspian oil into Europe, completed the construction of the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline, in the current government in terms of diversification, although everything is formally recorded. According to recent media reports, instead of diversifying, the government actually gives Russia our entire gas transport network, including gas shelters, thereby increasing Ukraine's energy and, accordingly, Ukraine's economic and political dependence on its neighbour, as well as depriving the state Treasury of more than 2.5 billion dollars of annual gas transit revenues to Europe. Another aspect of energy supply. The government of Yushchenka, at the expense of banning bartering and clearing energy operations, quickly accumulated the amount needed to pay pensions and salaries. On the contrary, the government of Kinakh was reinstated, resulting in huge financial losses. It is known that over 5 months of this year, the cash gap between real budget and plan was more than 2.1 billion dollars, and this is primarily related to energy loss. The second practical comparison relates to the agro-industrial complex. It was the government of Yushchenka that, thanks to intensive reforms in private property and the introduction of a policy of transparency and parity for agrarian politics, that has achieved unprecedented results. Judge for yourself: In 1999, 84 percent of agricultural enterprises were bankrupt before Yashchenka’s government began to operate. By the end of 2000, 65 and a half percent of the same agricultural enterprises had made profits. Now let's look at the policy of an active government. The government’s ineffective policy of shadowing agricultural production, including grain, led to an incredible situation last year. At the highest rate in recent decades, crops have been harvested by almost all producers, not profited, but actually bankrupted, or, as the people say, "has gone into debt in their own ears." So even such a cross-sectional analysis shows that neither the program nor the practical work of the government of Kinach is in line with the political orientation of the President's message and does not provide economic growth and improvement of living standards for Ukrainian citizens. And that's why the faction "Our Ukraine" has offered the Supreme Council its rejection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u58	People's MP Kirilenko, from the faction of Ukraine's Agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u59	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear members of the government! Indeed, as stated in the Prime Minister's report, the third year in a row of agricultural production and the entire agro-industrial complex of states in which a colossal transformation takes place is a significant positive and stable result. That's 10 percent of the annual gross output growth, that's 96 percent of the consumer network of our national production products, that's the food security of the state. In the Ukrainian Agrarians faction, there is every reason to testify today that this benefit is the result of the joint, concerted actions of the President, the Supreme Council, the government and the local authorities. We have in the country favourable taxes, a system of credit, some support for scientific fields: selection, tribal work, and so on. But don't let that make us fall in love today. The village has not yet risen from its knees. The main, plentiful demand of the population is not reaching the rate of agricultural growth, which works 90 percent on the internal market. As a result, there's a cover-up of prices. Last year it started with grain, and this year it was marked by a significant drop in prices for animal production. As a result, borrow for yourself. Last year is one of the most successful years of independence. A decent crop was produced, and animal production began to increase significantly. What's the economy? The profitability of agriculture is 5%, the profit of almost 60,000 reformed and farmed farms is an average of 10,000 dollars per farm. Bankruptcy still accounts for 40 percent of the farms. And that's because last year we had a few billion dollars of mortgage credit, we had a half-past fuel, more or less favourable external market. What do we have today? Credit goes with difficulties, supply of commercial banks is disproportionately high, the amount of compensation is small, the amount of fuel for the village, and during the harvest, it did not increase by 10 percent, as said, but much higher. External markets have deteriorated considerably. The United States, Western Europe, has set aside huge funds to support its agriculture. The EU and Russia have introduced restrictions on Ukrainian products. And this is in the face of a catastrophic fall in the purchase price of meat, milk, and grain, there is no favourable demand at all. If we're all together, and first of all the government, we don't urgently resolve this dangerous trend, the situation in the country can get out of hand. The cutting of the head has already essentially begun to produce grain prices under the destructive barter that we have only recently experienced. The solution is a flexible system of subsidies that has already proven its effectiveness, the purchase of large amounts of grain to the Reserve with subsequent implementation to the State's judgment, and many other measures that everyone knows well. And that needs to be decided urgently. Because we're essentially talking about increasing state support for agriculture. Anatoly Kirilovich, in response to the question, said that in the structure of the gross income of the United States farmer or EU countries, the financial support of the state is already more than 50 per cent. We've barely got ten. And this year, more financial support for agriculture in the EU and the United States has increased. These problems need to be solved urgently and immediately, for tomorrow may be too late. I can't help but notice that another painful problem in the village is social development. In recent years, the Rural Social Development Priority Act has essentially been ignored. In this regard, schools, hospitals, kindergartens, roads, water, and gas — six times the village — are far from the city. And this is because 80 percent of the social sphere in the country was built at the expense of farmers or farms. And in the city, on the other hand, 90 percent of the budget. So where is justice?? The demographic situation in the village as a result of a violent situation cannot help but be alarmed. Agrarians are impressed by the government, and we met yesterday with the Prime Minister, and this testified to the Government's understanding of the importance and urgency of these problems. And that means that the priority of agriculture, which is defined in the President's message in the government's agenda, is not going to be declarative, but factual. Under these conditions, the Ukrainian Agrarians will support the Government's programme of activities in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u60	National Deputy Desert Tenko of the People's Democratic Party of Ukraine. Will it come from the place, Valerius Pavlovich, or from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u61	An empty tank, a faction of the People's Democratic Party. I took advantage of the fact that one of my colleagues with whom we worked said in the presentation that it was the best government of the previous summons, not the one that is, but the one. What I'm saying is that the Wastebasket government was the best, and that's a lot today. And I can tell you why. Because he had survived five retirements, they were not easy to survive. Keep going. He was the first one in our country to give his authority during the inauguration of the President of Ukraine. That's why I want to wish my colleague Anatoly Kirilovich Kinachu that he would be working for the head of government before the inauguration of the President and given his authority. As a desert girl's government. And now, essentially. The social economic policy proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers Programme of Action is fully in line with the main directions that are declared to be the priorities of the President of Ukraine in the message to the Supreme Council and do not contain fundamental contradictions. At the same time, it should be noted that the document does not reflect the government's policy of targeting improvements in the situation in the country, but mainly contains a slogan that does not reflect the direct function of government as an executive branch of government. The policy set up in the government programme does not reflect the system of measures needed to address Ukraine's socio-economic development. An objective factor that needs to be recognized is the deterioration of the economic situation in the country at the end of 2001 and the continuation of the negative decline trend in 2002. At this stage, we have to acknowledge the fact that without the fundamental change in economic policy in the country, we are not only unable to move to a stable pace of economic growth, but also have a chance to find ourselves in a situation where economic processes are not driven. Of course, the easiest thing to do was to blame the situation at this stage of the Cabinet of Ministers, but it is not a solution to the situation caused by both objective and subjective factors. The accumulated structural distortions in the economy, the decline in export rates as a result of the worsening situation in the external markets, numerous anti-dumping investigations against Ukrainian producers, the impossibility of increasing the rate of output by enterprises through the use of old energy technologies and catastrophically low core funds. There is no justification for the high energy efficiency of modern production with low energy efficiency and fuel-energy deficits that can be counted to infinity. All of this suggests that the external factors that led to the growth during the year 2000 and the first half of 2001 have exhausted themselves. And it's projected to be even more difficult to maintain financial stability in 2002-2003 than it has been in the past. Because a trade balance that tends to worsen can cause a change in the currency market from a revolutionary to a devolved policy. The absence of these measures in support of the export sector will lead to a significant decline in the rate of exports and observations and the already very low share of Ukrainian goods in the world’s markets. In addition, budget implementation difficulties, increased tariffs for services to natural monopolies, higher import growth rates over exports may lead to faster inflation rates, which will have a negative impact on economic growth. There can be only one conclusion. Economics cannot enter the path of steady economic growth without restoring internal factors. To remedy the situation, perhaps only through joint efforts by the executive and legislative branches of government and the consolidation of all political forces in society. The effectiveness and effectiveness of cooperation with the Supreme Council and government is one of the first prerequisites for achieving the goals of national development in order to achieve our common cooperation. It is necessary to define and distinguish more clearly the competences and functions laid down in these branches of authority. We also need to strengthen local self - government at the same time. One of the necessary conditions for recovery is a complex approach to solving the problems that have arisen at this stage of development. This is primarily about developing a long-term strategy for the socio-economic development of our country. The long-term strategy is needed to ensure that government policy is consistent with long-term objectives: integration into the European Union, improvement of cooperation with Russia, with the countries of the SMRs that stop in front of Ukraine. The government should focus on what it wants to achieve, rather than dealing with problems that arise from time to time and put out fires, rather than reacting to events that take place abroad, or work for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u62	Please finish Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u63	What are my suggestions today? First of all, there is a need to focus on the development of transport corridors; that is, with regard to committees, there is a need for improvement in road farming, much more. I propose to support the ruling proposed by the committee. It is well - known to take today’s program, develop it in committee and faction, submit an offer to the Cabinet of Ministers and submit the program together with the 2003 draft budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u64	National MP Simonenko from the faction of the Communists of Ukraine. Papiev of the Social Democratic Party will be next. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u65	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, after getting acquainted with the message of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council and the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers, it seems to me that not only we, the Communists, but all those who think about the future of Ukraine, have the impression that their creators don't see whether, frankly, they don't want to see the real problems of Ukraine and what they want to see as real. The most important disadvantage of the program is, in our view, the lack of a comprehensive approach to solving the state's most current problems of social economic development and, most importantly, the absence of a particular person's problems. See how the general expression of the "nakshal" abounds: create conditions, ensure the performance of tasks, strengthen social protection, create a middle class, ensure transparency in the activities of the authorities and so forth. We have heard about all this many times before, but there is no evidence of change or improvement in the situation in the country. Among other things, statistics in Anatolia Kirilovich and in addition to the Presidential Letters show that poverty in Ukraine is increasing, the spread of the population to the rich and the poor is increasing, the standard of living of 40 million people, more than 80 percent of the total population is lower than the living. In addition, 7.9 million citizens are officially classified as poor, or beggars. And the policy of all, without excluding governments, as has been done and planned to be done, is that wages do not even ensure that basic physiological needs of humans are addressed. Unfortunately, the program proposed by the government of Anatolia Kirilovich does not exclude this either. The cost of work in the production cost structure is 11-12 percent in Ukraine, whereas in Western European countries it is 60 percent. We have pensions of 37 and a half percent of the average monthly wage, and in developed countries, we have more than 70 percent. In this context, it seems absurd to promise to achieve the European level of economic and social development of the state in 2011. According to scientists, the Institute of Economic Forecasting is problematic and the achievement of the percentages of average GDP growth in Ukraine that are planned there, and if they are to be implemented, it will take Ukraine a quarter of an age to reach only 1990 levels. We Communists cannot agree that the government in the programme, as well as in the draft budget resolution, envisages a further attack on the standard of living of citizens, depriving them of violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, as well as the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Social Security established by the previous legislation. It is also important to note, too, that respected comrades, that the financial situation of businesses is poor, nearly half of which are harmful to us in Ukraine. The sixth part of the company did not work at all or work today. The situation has not changed dramatically, and unfortunately, such changes in the organization of production are not foreseen. As you know, the payment crisis and the receivable and creditors' debt on all the assets of the state on April 1, 2002, amounted to 222 billion and 283 billion dollars respectively, taking into account that we have only 10 percent of the remaining government property. Where, then, are the benefits of the so - called economic reforms? Criticism and a chapter devoted to industrial, technical potential development, which accounts for almost 80 percent of GDP, are insufferable. It seems that in Ukraine they do not know what to do with our industry at all. That's why the calls make us feel like we don't need metallurgical combinations, that we're fine in the country, and so on. The program did not find proper reflection and problems related to the fuel-energy complex, agriculture, transport, etc. Unforeseeable and effective measures to reduce the level of economic Tinnitus, and this is a key issue of our development. Dear colleagues, at the same time, there are carefully written questions about Ukraine's integration into the world economy, cooperation with international financial organizations. I refer to this in connection with the comments that Western analysts are making today regarding President Kuchma’s last visit to Copenhagen. This is the answer for all who think about Europe today. There, they made it clear that Ukraine was not needed. We would also like to draw attention today to the fact that Ukraine's economy today has reached, practically, a critical limit, and addressing acute socio-economic issues requires a significant increase in the volume of financial credit resources in the country, an increase of half the cost of the consolidated budget. Thus, the government’s proposed activities rise directly in the air. The program is converted into a declaration and requires serious work. And we, the Communists, are just backing the committee's position to develop this program and to consider it only after a draft budget has been introduced to respond to the possibility of funding this program. But again and again, we call attention to you, distinguished officials: first of all, we need to use our nation's internal resources and not abuse and destroy entire sources of financing for the income part of the budget. So once again, please look at the question of the monopolies on vodka, and the liquor products, and the tobacco products, back to the state -- you'll have the money that will give you a chance to breathe a little bit of the people of Ukraine. Return to government property all of Ukraine's energy and don't let it be robbed today, as it is destroyed today, especially in this war, when, let's say, they're running with automatic machines, closing down some of the archetypes, intercepting and stretching each other. Please return to the state's property all that makes a steady profit today, a profitable part of the budget, and allow us to pursue today's targeted state policy for the development of the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u66	People's MP Papiew. He will be followed by a national deputy named Gavrish. I ask you to follow the rules, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u67	Thank you. Mikhailo Papiev, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, the program of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers is presented to the Supreme Council at a rather difficult political moment. Both in the Supreme Council and in Ukrainian society as a whole, after the parliamentary elections, a new configuration of the political forces was formed. We realize that there is a real danger in this situation of over-politicizing the consideration of the government program, of using the view as a reason to solve the government's fate regardless of the quality of the program and the real results of its activities. According to our faction, an active government has proved by its practical work that the measures it has proposed deserve a serious attitude on the part of the Supreme Council. Much precisely from the interaction of the government, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the constructive work of its own Supreme Council, depends on whether the necessary changes will be made to legislation, i.e. whether the final budget can be calculated on the basis of reforming more progressive legislation. It is the joint responsibility of the Supreme Council and the government to address key issues of economic and social development in the country. And we need to stress the positive fact that the problems of ensuring constructive cooperation between the legislative and executive branches of government are at the forefront of the government agenda. In our view, this position of government deserves the support of the people’s deputies. In general, the document in question deserves a mixed assessment. Most programs are not specific. That is, there is a declaration of purpose without defining clear tools for their achievement. The programme did not analyse the current state of socio-economic development, nor did it define the main problems of such development. Therefore, it is not clear how the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and what directions it considers to be priorities and what problems it plans to address. Let me give you a few examples. Thus, in the Tax Budgetary Policy section, the government is proposed to ensure balance and to increase the social orientation of the budget at the same time. This includes an increase in the budget for social programs, and a reduction in the tax burden due to a reduction in the tax liability for the added cost of the budget. Reduce taxes on natural persons and improve the mechanisms for paying taxes on profits and taxes on added value. In the event of a full tax reform, which envisions a significant reduction in taxes and tax rates, a real improvement in the tax mechanisms at the initial stage is one, two years, there will be a reduction in tax revenues at all levels, which in turn will not allow the current social programmes to be implemented, and so increase the social budget. Even the abolition of so - called economically unwarranted benefits will not allow one - minute increase in the income portion of the budget to ensure a substantial increase in certain social programs. One of the key tasks of tax-budgeting reform is to improve the tax-paying mechanism for the added value and reduce the debt-recovery of this tax. In this regard, it should be noted that the government has already repeatedly initiated legislative proposals to address the problem of tax compensation by improving its enforcement. This improvement was mainly done through the write-off and restructuring of the budgetary debt owed to payers and the establishment of additional requirements for the possibility of receiving such compensation from the budget. The purpose of such legislative proposals to the government was to effectively deprive taxpayers of the right to pay the tax from the budget. Therefore, without a clear definition by the government of specific mechanisms for improving the value added tax and determining the sources of fiscal debt, such measures cannot be seen as a reduction in tax pressure and a reform of the tax system. Some of the positions of the program are ambiguous, for example, in the section "Structuring Structural Process Optimization in a Fuel-Energy Complex" one of the key tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers is to ensure that energy consumption is fully accounted for mainly by money. I mean, is it unclear whether the government wants all the energy bills to be made solely with money, or does it allow for some part of the non - monetary accounts, and if so, which part? It should be noted that a large number of priorities mean that there are virtually no priorities. This greatly reduces the practical value of the program. The faction of Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party believes that, given both the strengths of the document and its major shortcomings, the Government's Action Programme can be adopted by the Supreme Council. [[united]] It should be possible for the government to develop a program that takes into account the comments of factions and committees and to listen to it in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u68	National MP Gavrish of the Group of Deputies of the Democratic Initiative. Next will be the national deputy of Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! I would like to start with what the Prime Minister of Ukraine has said about the fact that in Ukraine per capita there are as many programs as there are in any country of the world, and this is exactly what will happen until we can figure out the way out of the institutional impasse in which the government of Ukraine is located. And because the creation of the Constitution has led to the automation of the system of weights and antibodies, it has led to the exit from the key system path of executive power, which is at the same time a standard of European development. Therefore, the first, of course, and the main problem of the government is that it does not have at this time in the Ukrainian Parliament the corporate political majority, who is able not only to serve the government's position in carrying out socio-economic reforms, but also to make appropriate political decisions, because the government is not really a team of managers, and this is a political institution that simultaneously introduces political reforms into Ukrainian society. And it's not just by chance that's why we don't see very much in the government program projects aimed at civil society for its development. As far as the program is concerned, perhaps it is our ability to look at things mentally through pink glasses. The government programme is filled with optimistic principles of the Ukrainian outlook formula for the nearest palace. At the same time, there is no fundamental chapter in the program that would allow us to draw real and concrete conclusions from a chapter devoted to the socio-economic situation in the Ukrainian state. That's the problem at the moment, and it was going to be a critical trampoline for proposals, to build any strategy and strategy for perspective in the Ukrainian state. Nor does the government understand the problems associated with the crisis in the Ukrainian economy, which is essentially the synusoidal algorithm on the surface, expecting random factors and risks of its development, and largely dependent on the conjuncture of not much from the external, so much from, in fact, the internal and first political. I would also say that the major flaw in this program is that the government is not analyzing the internal market of Ukraine, not looking for tools to create the internal investment portfolio itself, not counting on the investment capacity of a Ukrainian citizen, which means that it is not balanced as a minimum, the 3 most important circumstances. It is the Ukrainian model of economics, the social sector and civil society at the same time as financial policy. With regard to the economic model for the development of the Ukrainian State, it is difficult to understand from this program which the government is talking about in its program. First of all, it's clear that we have a raw materialized model of the Ukrainian economy, and by its very nature this is actually a weak industrial development system, which is designed exclusively for the exploitation of nadr and a difficult mechanical process in the economy. So it's usually very difficult to talk about information systems, innovation systems, but what's more, it's fairly referenced in this program. When it comes to a specific position in the financial sphere, unlike the President's message, the government, without motivation, speaks of budget deficits, and although in the President's letter, we are in a position that the budget should be prefectious or balanced in such a way that it is not financed by the risks accumulated in Ukraine's macro-financial environment. In fact, it is repulsive for both internal and external investors. There is little talk by the government about overcoming the complex corruption and tinnitus of the Ukrainian economy of factors that are relevant not only to the economy of Ukraine, but also to politics itself, because politics and economics are fundamentally combined here. And most importantly, speaking of our European integration, the government says nothing about creating democratic standards for the development of the Ukrainian state, increasing the standard of living and the quality of life that is central to Ukraine. Here is just one example: In order for us to actually enter a united Europe, the average income per Ukrainian citizen should be at least $10,000 a year, half of the average income per citizen of Ukraine. So at this point, we have 10 times less. To conclude, I would like to say that the Democratic Initiatives MP's group, discussing the Government's agenda at its meeting, has decided that it will hold further discussions with the government on this issue. And today he suggests that no decision should be taken on this program, giving the government the opportunity, listening to our comments, to work on it before the budget is adopted. And in this we agree with Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. And then discuss this program at an extended meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u70	The Pavlovsky People's Deputy from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, next will be the National Deputy Turmanov from the "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u71	Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. I refer to the honourable Presidency, the members of the government, the national MPs, and the journalists. I want to say that the government has directions, there's a basis on which it's developing a program. And that is the basis of the President's message to the Supreme Council of the European Choice. This makes it easier for me to analyze the Government's Activity Programme because it's based on it. A thorough analysis of the Presidential Message "European Choice" was published and published in the newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" on June 15. And I'm in this article showing that there's a positive message from the President, and I call it. For the first time, it's been admitted that we haven't moved there in 10 years, that there was no scientific design for reforms that strengthened criminal oligarchs. Now the question is whether the reasons have been removed and I'm showing you no. And if the message does not remove the reasons that led to this, they are also not removed from the government’s program. There was a question here, and how to feel that we are poor, at the beginning of Ukraine's reforms, as defined by Gore, Albert Gore was seventh in scientific and technological progress and the standard of living. Today, according to the UN, we are 140th among the poorest countries in the world, the standard of living has dropped 10-12 times. 82 percent are outside of poverty, and 40 percent are hidden unemployment, and 90 percent are in the area of innovation. What's more, here in the government program it's declared correctly, it's said to be the development of the innovation process. And we witnessed the presentation of Kinach, Seminozhenko and Gayec in the evening, and on the second day, Mineconomy presented a bill that banned the Prime Minister's innovation program. This is the Mineconomy, which is a program that is prohibited from implementing the Prime Minister's program. So I'm not just going to criticize, but I want to make a concrete proposal to the government, which is what it takes to interact with the Supreme Council in order to actually develop a normal program. I want to surprise you a little bit, and I'm going to argue that we don't have to make a majority, but we have to rely on today's opposition, on its development, and the government can design a normal program, and I'm going to show it. But for now, what Anatoly Kirilovich really says is the deepest crisis in Ukraine is the crisis in the management system. Now, remember, when we elected the Head of the Supreme Council, all the heads of administration here sat for two weeks. Today is such an important issue, and there is no one from the President's Administration, from the heads of administration. Of course, they're doing the election, and as I was told, the head of the Administration said, if elected in the Cherkas region of Olínik, in the Dnipropetrovsky-Jir, and in the Winnicki-Socialist Melnik, they'll be released within an hour. What should the poor do about the program or the election? So we can understand that. And with regard to democracy, I'm going to say, really, democracy needs to be strengthened, but the reason needs to be removed, and the reason is the administrative resource and it's getting stronger, God forbid, we're still doing the results of the referendum, we have to forget about democracy in general. So you see, this mechanism doesn't work. And as for the social program, the jobs, I'll say, in the government, a modest figure has to be created by 800,000 jobs during the program, and we've lost 10 million. So I'm not saying that it's the worst strategic mistake that needs to be entered immediately. The WTO needs to enter, but this should not be the first, but the final stage of reforms, as all countries of the world do. Because the WTO is freezing the structure that we have, and as you said, we don't have an innovation process, we don't have high technology. And there will never be an entrance to the WTO. Because we have the status of a colony today. We export raw materials, metal and intelligence. So I'm not going to reveal, I have a lot of suggestions. It's constructive. This program should not be rejected, but how can it be done without criticism? The government needs to resist, because it is the opposition that has proposed strategic bills: the principles of internal and foreign policy - Moroz and others, the Vienna Socialist Party representatives, Simonenko - the principle of internal and foreign policy, and under the leadership of Yulia Timoshenko, two bills - the principles of Ukraine's national interests and the principles of Ukraine's internal and foreign policy - have been presented. That's got to be it. There are, by the way, all the mechanisms, the numbers, like, one year's salary increase not by 10 percent, but 200 percent, are shown on the basis of how to do this. And in the end, it shows that we can join Europe not when we sign everything, but when the minimum wage is $500, and we show how to do it. So this program has to be rejected, the government has to start cooperating with the opposition and make a normal program that will turn Ukraine not what the President says, not where we went, but what we did is we go to the periphery of the world's economy, and it will allow us to turn Ukraine into a circle of developed states, and to do so we need to think about reforms scientifically, just based not on the development of foreign scientists, but on the development of nationals. That's enough, because, as Gregory Skovrod once said, you don't have to teach an apple how to produce apples, and you have to ward off pigs, pigs that are politically destroying Ukrainian intelligence and Ukrainian production. Thank you for your attention, and since there's a minister of education, I want to say that the exams have started, and there's an interesting effect: smart, talented kids who go to budget, and where there's a pay-per-view education, there's a downturn, and those who go to pay-per-view -- all in a row. This is the degradation of intelligence and higher education. Therefore, the education system needs to be taken seriously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u72	Turmanov from the faction of Ukraine, next will be Burak from the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Urban Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u73	Dear People's Deputies, distinguished members of the Cabinet of Ministers! Today, I am grateful to the faction of the “Regions” for giving me the floor, and I have been given the floor that the situation in the coal sector remains critical to this day. Today, 42.5 million tons of coal have been mined by miners since the beginning of the year. Today, our energy stores have 2.2 million tons of coal. Today, we have reduced the goldenness of coal products, which we had very high, by 23.4 per cent, is the quality that energy needs today. Productivity growth by 20 per cent. Today, however, the coal industry is owed 1.2 billion rubles. Yesterday and yesterday, there were individual deputies who raised this problem. Today, there is no such debt in any of our industries. Today, we have allowed for an increase in current arrears, amounting to 120 million. Today, the wages in the industry are 619 grevens, the lowest in the fuel energy complex. And at the wage level, we're at the 18th place today at the end of the second decade. Today, the Prime Minister of Ukraine has already said that the number of drop-outs is now ahead of the number of inputs. But we talk all the time today, we declare it, and we almost don't solve it. The shafts are being shut down today, we don't have a system on this issue, we don't have a coal restructuring system, we don't have these mines and we don't have funding. And it must be said that the most terrible problem in closing coal enterprises is that the social issues that remain in the regions are virtually not resolved. What's going on? Today we have heard, and before that, Valery Pavlovich spoke beautifully for his government. I want to say today from this rostrum: in 10 years, no government has said so much, it has been explained in the love of miners without doing what it should have done. There is here, let's face it, and the guilt of the people's deputies in this regard. Every year, the industry is underfunded, decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, programmes, decrees, orders are adopted, but everything has to be said that little is being done about the coal sector. The process continues today to deteriorate in the coal sector. Today, the age price is between 40 and 50 years. A little more - and the industry will not need any budget funding at all. There's nobody in the industry that's gonna work today. And frankly, there is no system today. It wasn't in previous years. We're always dealing with problems. We're dealing with local fires. In one beret, we close, so that's where we open the hole. I would like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers adopted the Ukrainian Coal programme last year. And we have to say, this first year of the programme, but it's funded by 48 per cent today, it can't be implemented, and it's not being implemented in many ways today. What must be done? The budget for the industry, which is now being established for 2003. The financing of the Ukrainian Coal programme must be fully considered. We are just saying, and we are tasking this, the Government must decide on this issue, and it is necessary to include in the budget the repayment of the payroll that has been created. We just don't have another way. Amend the Tax Code for the period of restructuring of tax benefits for coal enterprises. As they are in the regions, they are urban. There must be a law to close the coal business. I already told you at the 25th mobile office, closing mines like after the war. Today, a law must be clearly described: when a coal plant is closed, we must fulfil certain points that will be enshrined in the law. And what must be decided? The Cabinet of Ministers, Mintopenergo, should provide 100 per cent of the charges for the coal products shipped. We talked, Anatoly Kirilovich, and it's time to look at the increase in pensions for miners working for miners, which we agreed on. We need to move the capital funds from quarter to quarter, bring them up to July to August. We don't drive lava today. Winter will come, let's say, "Where's the coal?" No coal, no coal. And set up a payroll settlement mechanism. I would like to say one more point. The problem of the coal industry needs to be addressed by unpopular measures this year. We have eleven holding companies that today, let's say, cannot solve the problem of pay, work and development. Two tasks must therefore be addressed. First. It's about taxation. We have to pay the current taxes, not the taxes we take from our country, the right hand the State gives and the left hand takes away. And the most important question. There is a need to restructure the electricity bill. We spoke to you, Anatoly Kirilovich. There's no other way. 93 million we pay per month, 36 million don't cover, these eleven holding companies don't cover. Let's restrict the pay, move the captain's investment, insert the lava, get the coal, and then start solving the electricity bill. Last I'd like to say. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! 61st section of the law, which is in the budget this year, has completely shut down calculations with regressors by our enterprises. closing coal enterprises. I'd like to unlock it. I have applied to the Committee on Budgets, and I would like to ask for a vacation to solve this problem. And the last. Everyone has spoken before me, said, I would like to say that today there are separate proposals, there are statements by our deputies, there are factions, so the Government needs to take these proposals into account, to finalize the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u74	People's MP Burjak. He will be followed by a national deputy of Spivacuk from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! First two emotions, then the point. Emotion first. The programme can form the basis for constructive cooperation between the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government. The programme certainly contains a proportion of the implementation of the President's messages to the Supreme Council and the conceptual principles of the economic and social development strategy for 2002-2011. But the Hard Ukraine faction isn't going to be original today unless it claims that the document submitted by the government to the Supreme Council just in form looks like a program of government activity. However, according to the content, it cannot meet the criteria of the program as a document that defines not only the goals to be achieved but also the concrete ways to implement them and optimize public spending. According to the economic dictionary, the program is a policy document that is bound by resources, performers, and time-bound tasks and actions to address priority problems. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers program is described as a slogan that has no scientific background. There are no basic directions of forecasting, planning, and organization on which any management decision is to be made. In order to develop an active programme, the government must first draw up long-term and medium-term forecasts and plans for the economic and social development of the state, on the basis of which short-term measures should be determined. By the way, this is what the President's letter stresses. Unfortunately, in 10 years of our state's existence, no government in the country has ever developed methodological guidelines for making plans and forecasts for Ukraine's social and economic development. How can programs be put together without a methodology where there are no defined single principles, methods of achieving goals, unbalanced needs, and resources, and on what methodological basis a particular action or proposal is built. Let me give you just one example. The section "Improving the Effectiveness of State Administration" does not specify any function that meets the performance criteria as if success depended solely on the meeting of government members with the MPs. For example, in "Enhancing the Effectiveness of Public Administration." Item. Continue and improve the practice of harmony. The efficiency factor is 0. To form an accompanying group in the composition of the National Deputies. The efficiency factor is 0. Introduce systematic government meetings with MPs with zero efficiency ratios. We think it is pointless to deepen the analysis by criticizing the status of the program. We suggest that we focus our efforts on the programs we've created. We've seen the government's Action Program as a kind of generalization model, which is one vector. In our view, such a program could consist of five chapters. The first chapter is "The Real State of the Economy." To find out where we are going, we need to know where we are in the coordinate system. Chapter two, Causes of Crisis. We need to find reasons not to repeat them. The third chapter is "The Basic Directions of Restoration of Ukraine's Economy." As you know, the line goes through two points. If these orientations are too much, we're going to have a Bronze movement. Chapter four, "The Ways of Realizing the Program." And the fifth chapter of the "Implementation Mechanisms". So the Hard Ukraine faction suggests that we focus on the preparation of the program. Having stressed that it should become the strategic goal of the Supreme Council and the government. The Hard Ukraine faction offers to take the program to the knowledge and to work on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u76	National MP Spivacuk of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u77	Vladimir Spivacuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine The Honourable Presidency, respected members of the government, respected colleagues. Today, we are considering a rather important document, which, in principle, cannot be considered in full measure. The fact is that the proposed Government Programme does not meet the basic requirements of this type of document: pragmatism and the implementation mechanism are essentially not in place in this document. This is a declaration of good intentions that have not once in recent years paved the way for Ukraine to hell. And in this regard, the program requires serious scrutiny, and it requires serious improvement. Why am I talking about this? The problem is that the program probably does not reflect the most important, in our view, moments that characterize the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and which characterize Ukraine's prospects for development. First. Change of power. It's necessary today, because the government is often in a situation where tourists in Kiev-Peter's Lavry came yesterday, when they interrupted the tour in half, because the guarantor came to see the holy places. People are out. As a result of the image of Ukraine, both for foreign guests, and there were also foreign guests, and for visitors from various parts of our country, it was quite similar. In this regard, we have repeatedly asked Anatoly Kirilovich how he would be treated, as it were, by supporters in the Supreme Council to change the system of power, but the program only points to one thing: improving the regulatory base, the work, or, more specifically, the activities of the secretaries of state. So should we consider whether such officials as the secretaries of the State are needed today? And we're going to improve their normative base. The second is in this connection. Again, the program clearly reflects, unfortunately, the indifference of government structures to the problems that concern every Ukrainian citizen today. I meant housing, tariffs, wages and so on, and so on. There may be no need to count and count today. The point is that each one of us feels on his own skin, on his own family, on his own acquaintances what is done in the communal sphere. And the process of privatizing the public sphere, the energy spheres, they are now leading to a sharp deterioration in the welfare of citizens if we can talk about this level. Next. The government program envisions further commercialization of education. On the one hand, this is, as it were, a declaration on the introduction into the informational modern high school space, again, through the relevant senior classes; and on the other hand, the limitation of budgetary funding for higher education institutions and the restrictions on appropriate, provision, pardon, the material basis of higher education and, ultimately, the transfer of it to commercial principles. From this rostrum today, it has been said that we are thus losing the intelligence of the nation. Next. It's completely incomprehensible, and in this respect, I would like to make an explanation, but yesterday I just couldn't ask how the state's food security situation is connected, and right next to the establishment of a full market for land? Respectful colleagues, all concerned with the agribusiness complex, the problems of land ownership and use, know that in all countries of the world, who care for their national security, trade in land is severely limited. What we now call the land market is extremely limited, so it's a national acquisition and it's the foundation of national security. As a result, we cannot, if such questions have arisen, protect this government because not all the commitments that have been made in the past call that have been made today and such a "restraint" from direct issues are absolutely not adorned by today's government. And last in this connection. Can we consider this program now, at this time? No, we can't. We can't because it comes out of the same groundless document as the message of the President of the Supreme Council. In accordance with the Constitution, we need to adopt the principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies. On the basis of these principles and only on the basis of these principles can a realistic and forward-looking government programme be produced, and only then can the budget be adopted as a financial guarantee for the implementation of the programme. This position of our faction, this position corresponds to today's reality, and I think it's going to get support in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u78	Dear colleagues have already made a statement, taking into account the questions that have been asked by the Prime Minister of the 23 National Deputies. Another 12 national deputies, including 7 from the committees, have been enrolled. Shall we discuss it from the committees then? National MP Polishchuk of the Health Committee Now, we're going to consider your proposal after the People's Deputy's speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u79	The distinguished Presidency, the high-ranking deputies, the honourable members of the government! I'd like to stop on the government's agenda, but start with what we have and what the government is offering us. As we know, the expenditure on health care in the general budget last year was 2.7 percent, the new budget is proposed and 2.6 percent are still planned. Now let's see what we have. And we have that health care was funded less than 75 percent and we don't know how it's going to go any further. Next, let's see. At the same time, medical wages were less than 50 percent of industrial wages and less than 50 percent of industrial wages are planned. In addition, it is said that there are no budget receipts. But let's see how the budget was distributed and how far further. At the expense of oncology, we know that oncology for the people of Ukraine was provided by as much as 13.5 percent, when the equipment was maintained by 118 percent. And now let's take a look at it. What is offered to us in the government program? And in the government program, we find basically declaration statements, and no more. We have no intention of improving Ukraine’s health. National MPs, members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood discussed the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers and the corresponding conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25.06. This year. As a result of the review of the above-mentioned documents, the Committee concluded that the general comments of the Chief Apparatus Scientific and Expert Office were justified in the part on the lack of attention of its developers to resource security issues, the identification of specific implementation mechanisms, the structure of the planned actions, and so on. In view of this, the program, as I said, is somewhat declarative. Although the stated plans to improve the health and health system merit attention, concrete measures to reform the economic principles of the health sector have in fact remained outside the scope of the program. The program does not mention the economic mechanism for improving the functioning of the industry, such as the introduction of compulsory health insurance for the population, which is a powerful tool for ensuring targeted financing of the health care system, the protection of the health - care system’s financial resources from the failures of the budget, which have become systematic in recent years. In doing so, the text of the programme in Appendix 2 to the text of the programme, which contains a list of projects to be developed, to be adopted to ensure the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers programme, contains proposals on the need for the adoption of laws on the size of insurance contributions to public health insurance and on the amendment of certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of a future law on compulsory public social health insurance. There are no specific mechanisms for ensuring efficient, rational use of budgetary allocations. There is no control over the training of both the college and the postgraduate training. It's not given to associations, to public organizations. which should take on a large part of the training. In its analysis of the health - care program, the committee believes that it cannot be adopted in this way and needs substantial processing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an offer was made by the Bandurka People’s Deputy to stop the discussion. Shall we continue? Please, National Deputy Tomenko of the Committee. Dear colleagues, we agreed until 13 o’clock. There's 14 minutes left. Please be patient.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! I think we have to be realistic, and first of all talk about this document and throw it to the government, say that this government is probably the most explicitly represented among other governments by its own unconstitutional status. If we analyze the real powers that the government has today, the logic of its relationship between Parliament and the government, the government and the President's Administration, we'll see that today's government, by its authority, is on the smallest scale. Today the government is virtually devoid of actually working with the local executive system, today the government is virtually unable to decide on its own principles of decision in monetary policy, and today the government, due to the non-structuring of parliament, has absolutely no logic in its relationship with Parliament. The paradox of this government is that when Victor Yushchenk's government changed, the key accusation was that the government did not work with Parliament. Let's answer the question, how do we work with the government today, and how does the government work with Parliament? We have a parallel majority, like all countries under government, or what is the logic of the government's work with parliament? So the first thing I want to talk about right now is that the key problem is the political regime, where the government doesn't have any powers that are provided for by the Constitution, where the government doesn't have the Cabinet of Ministers Act, where the government doesn't have an understanding of how to work with the system of local government administrations. After the status of the President's Administration has increased, and today the President's Administration is a political body where politicians operate, even though ministers would actually have to be politicians, and the President's Administration is a government official that we should not know at all, and they follow the President and write speeches to him, the more we reinforce this role by unconstitutional government. And to demand from the government of the things written in the program, it means either to deceive yourself or to deceive the government. The government is objectively unable to do what is written in the program, since there is no such authority. For example, your information field. I think it's absurd for us to have the logic of the constitutional political regime of the Supreme Council to produce information policy and the government to carry it out. When the President's Administration first created the Chief Information Policy Administration in the history of the modern Ukrainian State, then it raises the question: who is our information policy implementing and implementing? There is no right for the President's Administration to engage in information policy, there is a State Committee of Information Policy, there is a government, there is a Supreme Council that should do so. And when I look at the government's task of carrying out information policy, it's clear that these tasks, which do absolutely nothing, because here we have to strengthen, implement, develop national space. Do we have an information-national space? We don't have it. We expand and improve. We don't have an information policy and information security system, and we're strengthening it. Moreover, it is generally felt that if the key task of the government is to ensure freedom of speech, then the Ministry of Internal Affairs has an interesting position. There is a government position or personal position when he thinks we have journalists killed in the drunkard. Is the investigation of the case of Igor Alexandrov on July 7, which is going to be a year away, where it just happens to be a farce, when they find a poor, miserable person and try to make her a murderer, and everyone refuses to consider it, it's a guarantee of freedom of speech? On July 11th, we're going to listen to Alexander's case and we're going to see how the Attorney General -- a new one who swore to bring the Gongadze case to an end -- will work. I hope, in turn, if the government says that it will stand up for freedom of speech, our committee now duplicates the BBC film on the murder of Georgia Gongadze, and if it's true that it's written here in the program, I'm going to hand over this film to the National Television Company, duplicated in Ukrainian, and then I think 1 National will show a true film about how they killed Georgia Gongadze. But when I talk about general things on the program, I think that of course the government has written a general declaration and the government understands very well that there is no realistic picture here, what needs to be done. The government understands that these priorities are virtually impossible to implement. The government may realize that he cannot do so in his present situation, but it was then necessary to write it honestly and frankly. And if the government knows that we have half the economy in the shadows, it understands very well that we need to look for ways, not to expand the tax police, but economic methods. And, you know, lately, I've had a lot of respect for the tax administration, and, well, it seems like we need to change the Constitution soon and write in Article 6 Article 6 that the tax administration is the governing and governing power in society. Because yesterday's vote made it very clear that there are several structures that everyone understands that they don't need to be touched. I voted against the appointment of the Attorney General. Not because. I don't know him. But I'm afraid that in our country, tax and police will soon become, indeed, the guiding and governing force. And we're still in a lot of trouble. So this is my general offer. If we are realistic, we must reject the program, oblige the government to submit a new program. And the government, and we have to look into the truth in the eye and name things with our names at least in order to then find the right way into a better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u82	National MP Tomic of the Agrarian Policy Committee and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u83	Honorable National MPs, distinguished members of the government. Having met and discussed on the committee the draft Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the development of the agricultural sector, I would like to address these issues. While noting some positive steps taken by the Ukrainian Minister's Office in support of the agro-industry complex at the state level, this mainly applies to the preservation of taxes on agricultural enterprises, partial compensation for budget costs, and interest on credit resources. However, it should be noted that the most acute problems in the field remain unresolved, including price distortions in the inputs to the agricultural sector, as evidenced by the situation in the agricultural market in recent months. It's an intersectoral price regulation where the agricultural sector stays on one of the last, by the way, at wage level, such a situation. This is an acceleration in the formation and forecasting of the agricultural market, which also has a significant impact on price policy formation. Grant agricultural products short- and long-term loans. Unfortunately, today's interest rates, which are aimed at lending 25 to 30 percent of agricultural producers, are too much for production. Realizing economic conditions for fuel-oil and technology farms, providing financial assistance to the village to rebuild the social sphere. These are very painful issues that are not resolved by reforming the agrarian sector, forming a real, not a declared owner on Ukrainian land, in accordance with the Earth Code. The government does not give priority to, as provided by the relevant legislative acts on financial matters and support for the sector, which needs state support at a given stage in the country’s deep, economic transformations, more than ever. How do you figure when the sector was funded in 2001 by only 78 percent, then industry and energy by - 91, construction by 85. Even in a timely manner, these budget funds are also earmarked for funding schedules. Once again, the village remains funded on a residual basis. We think that the solution to these issues should be reflected in the project. The analysis of the project shows that industry development and expected results are largely declarative and conceptual. Even with less than one page in size, there is a branch that forms two thirds of the country’s circulation. None of the above problems are clearly and specifically reflected, no calculations, no expected and projected results. There was no question of conservation for agricultural producers of an existing system of taxation, which is essentially proposed to be eliminated. Undeclared measures to ensure implementation are of such importance for the development of the agricultural sector as a law to stimulate agricultural development for 2001-2004. In support of rural infrastructure development, the project notes that the solution to this problem is provided in the State Social Development Programme, but it is not yet approved and misunderstood when it is developed and adopted. Other tasks in this direction are not defined by the government, although it is a horrifying issue for a village that needs to be dealt with in a fundamental way. In our view, given that Ukraine, first of all, is agrarian, it was necessary for the government to provide for its specific measures in the draft programme, to focus on achieving the priority development of an agro-industry complex, which, by the way, is addressed in the relevant laws and decrees of the President. So the committee's decision on this issue is serious -- it needs to be redesigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u84	Thank you. Two minutes later, the National Deputy Nikolaynko of the Committee insists, and then the closing word will be given to Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u85	Dear members of the government, Anatoly Kirilovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich, do I have something to say? To take advantage of what the government and the national MPs are today, and to say that, in our opinion, the government program, the only thing I haven't quite figured out is what the term, let's say, for the next two years, would be appropriate to write about how I saw a few of these programs, they and we were in domestic practice, and let's say, "American 2000 Education," about that. Seven or eight points, I like how it's specifically written here in this particular program. I'd say this, paragraph 7, I'd say first: all school-age kids will go to school, every school will be warm and all the kids will be fed. Second, every second school we're going to do in these two years, we're going to do computer classes, and in every fourth, we're going to do the Internet. I'm saying these are real numbers compared to what we have today. Next, every second, well, in Zaporozhye region, was said that by the end of the year, virtually, the whole area would be in every school computer class. What can we not do in Donetsk, for example, or in other areas? Next, each of the second graduates of the school will be able to study in the state branch at the expense of the budget. Next, the teacher’s salary will exceed the minimum level of living. Today, with the head of the committee, Mikola Efremovich, speaking only from health care, half of the graduates of the university of education today, half of the minimum standard of living is paid. The utilities that we can't provide today, look, one ton of 260,000 rural educators -- that's about 50 million dollars, 100 kilowatt -- that's another 46. We're just making subsidies transfers for 4 billion. What if they're going to be 4 billion and 100 million? And we solve the whole issue of rural school. Next thing you know, it's time not to interrupt. I support the government's emphasis on the innovative nature of our economy, but in this context we need to look at the fact that we're spending 517 million dollars on science this year, and the West gives us 570 dollars on our programs. So I think that's how the program should be. And to do that, what I said was that together, we need to approve for the next two years of education development, where we can clearly record where we're going to take a ton of coal to every teacher in the country. Yeah, we'll raise the excise collection by 1 percent. And so walk through all the parameters and support our education, support our science, and then there will be programs, and there will be a future for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u86	Thank you. Anatoly Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u87	Respectable national MPs, respectable colleagues, friends! The government, in carrying out its constitutional obligations, introduced the Cabinet of Ministers Programme for consideration by the Supreme Council. We realize that the program is being considered in a sufficiently complex, ambiguous environment, both internal and external. I would particularly like to focus once again on how dynamic the world around Ukraine is moving forward. Integration processes are deepening, and political and economic competition is intensifying. In the current year, at least eight Central and Eastern European states will be members of NATO. In a year and a half, almost all our neighbours will be members of the European Union. The Russian Federation became a full participant in the Great Eight, defined as a market economy state. I would very much like to look at the programming principles of Ukraine for all of us: both power and society -- to take this into account, including the importance of maximizing the historical time given to Ukraine. We understand the seriousness and complexity of the situation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are still signs of acute political competition after the elections, unfortunately, a stable majority has not yet been formed. On the basis of the above, the government is grateful to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its constructive, meaningful discussion of the programme, the government supports the proposals of factions, committees, the National Deputies of the Supreme Council, that our task is to fill the programme with concrete content, legislative, regulatory enforcement mechanisms, resource security, because we have no time to make further mistakes and accept declarative documents. The government stands ready to increase its cooperation with the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the programme, taking into account all the components of State economic, budgetary, and social policy. The government supports the draft decision introduced by the profile committee. And I am sure that this will be a step forward for Ukraine as an independent state to eventually go into the long-term direction of its development, which is in line with national interests, structural priorities and based on objective market economic laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the discussion is concluded, the decision will take place on Thursday. Now, let's move on to the question of "Crazy." I'd like you to explain to the board who signed up for the various shows. And, let's, uh, honorary colleagues, thank the government for our productive work today. This is from the rostrums: Yavorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the job is not finished yet. We still have 55 minutes to work. Yavorowski's national deputy is missing. National MP Bespali, faction of "Our Ukraine." None. National MP Mihovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u89	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Honorable Presidium, colleagues, guests! Let me draw your attention to one of the events that happened recently in the southwest of Ukraine, but it does have an interstate sound. This is about the 9th All-Slavian Council in Uzhgrad. Representatives of nine countries took part in his work. The Council held a competent exchange of views with a number of relevant issues of the social existence of Slavs and their countries at the beginning of the new millennium in the face of global problems in the context of the Ukrainian State. Appropriate approvals, recommendations, references accepted. In particular, the delegates of the Council approached the President, the Parliament, and the Government of Ukraine with an invitation to recognize the Russians as the root people. This corresponds to the Convention of the International Labour Organization No. 169, Resolutions of the 50th Session of the General Assembly, as well as the decisions of the 8th All-Slovakia Congress and the 6th All-Russian Congress. Legal recognition of the fundamental ethnos of Carpathians will not only restore historical justice, but also create good conditions for its full integration and self-implementation in the overall Ukrainian political, socio-economic and cultural life. The final conclusion of the 9th All-Slovak Council is the development and approval of a draft treaty on the brotherhood of the peoples and states of Belarus, Russia and Ukraine. This document, based on international law and experience, sets out the purpose, conditions, contours, paths to co-operation that can become a civilized, democratic and effective form of co-existence among many peoples and countries in post-Radians space. Having declared themselves brothers to be three Eastern Slav peoples and their countries will be able to create the atmosphere of the greatest contribution in all spheres of activity. In article 5 of the draft Treaty on the Brotherhood of Slovenian Peoples and Countries, it is emphasized. What union is possible as a result of national referendums. Thus, members of the Council have found precise and subtle language in order to express their will, hopes and hopes that most of our fellow countrymen will embody and protect their constitutional rights and civil liberties, regardless of their differences. By informing you of the decisions made by the General Council, I urge you to accept them in a constructive and farsighted manner. Committees and factions should treat them impartially and interestedly, and our media can also help. Confident of its objective social development will inevitably and naturally lead to a new stage of Slovenian integration and rebirth. Let's help this humane and noble process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u90	National Deputy Stojko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u91	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! As a result of my parliamentary powers, on June 25th of this year, I took up the appeals of 115 members of the Zradnyansk and Zarodnian branch of the Society with limited responsibility in the Ternix district of Parliament, and then decided to go to the joint Ukrainian-Vietnamese company Vesna-Z, which manufactures pasta products for rapid preparation in the village of Zarudja of the same congregation district to familiarize myself with the situation on the ground. In accordance with article 17 of paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies, I have tried to get into the above-mentioned enterprise, along with the head of the Parliamentary District Government Administration, Drevjan Jaroslav Mikolaiovich, and the head of the District Council of Demks, Sophia Mikolayevna, which we have not been able to achieve for six hours. We wanted to get there from 13 to 19 hours. Finally, when I insisted and looked at the company, I was saddened by the anti-sanitary, working conditions, and many other major disadvantages of the production. I don’t know what conditions there are, whether it’s legal or not, for many Vietnamese people who, according to a health - care professional who, by the way, had not been admitted to the company that day, never had a medical examination, and had no sanitary books. Are they involved in manufacturing? The fact that there is a worker with an open form of tuberculosis in this food business makes him wonder. That's it. I am surprised by the conduct of the district leaders, particularly the heads of the district government of the village of Devyan Yaroslav Mikolaiovich, who, while communicating for a while with the Vietnamese man holding the axe, failed to make the entrance through the fenced entrance. I have many questions. First of all, what is the status of the enterprise on whose land is it located, what legal rules are governed, or would it be Ukrainian? After concluding on what I had seen, I addressed the head of the Ternopil district administration of Kurnicki Ivanovich and the head of the Ternopil district council of Zukinska Anatolia Alexandrovich, requiring a comprehensive examination of the object. He calls on the Attorney General’s Office, the Committee on Law Enforcement, the Chief Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine not to leave this disgraceful case without proper control and decisive action to end such phenomena. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u92	Thank you. National Deputy Shershun, faction of Ukrainian Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u93	Mikola Shershun, Plainshine, faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. One of the areas most affected by the Chernobyl disaster is the Plain region. The question that is very acute today, which is being violated by voters in front of the MPs, is the debt of payment of compensation according to the benefits guaranteed to the victims of the accident at CHAES. I'll just give you a few numbers. The debt to the victims of the ČAES accident on June 1, this year, amounts to 67 million dollars, including almost 20 million dollars this year alone. The debt for specialized medical care for victims amounts to 800,000, and the debt for the programme to eliminate the effects of the accident on CHEUS, agro-industry, and forestry is now almost one million dollars. In Ukraine, by the way, the total debt from the social benefits of black people amounts to over 700 million dollars. In recent years, there has been considerable economic growth, which has been widely reported in the press, the radio, television, and public performances. And in real life, according to one of my constituents, who suffered from an accident at CHEES, everything happens the other way around. Humans have performed an oncological operation, and the drugs to be provided free of charge under the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster require two thousand dollars a month, because otherwise, as he says, they have to die slowly without drugs. I want to draw attention to this question from Prime Minister Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich and members of the government. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a matter for the government to decide first. So I propose now that, since I have not been able to address the budget resolution in the course of the 2003 budget resolution, there is an article to anticipate the allocation of funds for the full repayment of the debt that was created in the past years when the Chernobyl disaster and social protection programmes were implemented, first of all from the social payments to the citizens who were affected by the Chernobyl disaster and the construction work carried out by the organizations in the past year, according to the Chernobyl Construction Programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u94	People's MP Phydenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! According to the People's Deputy Status Act, we are entitled, as defenders of the people, to make parliamentary inquiries or petitions. This right is often exercised, especially when we are approached by our constituents and are asked to protect their constitutional rights. Sometimes we manage to do so, which certainly brings satisfaction to both the MP and the person we are protecting. But otherwise, as indignation, we can't call our feelings when we get a formal write-off from a government official, or we don't get anything in return, even though that kind of justice is rare. I'm going to take a look at the case that happened to me. A month ago, I reported from this rostrum of the Supreme Council that such a shameful fact had not come to an end of the election to the Supreme Council, as the hands of the leaders of the Volin district and the Ratni district administration had dealt with the director of the Ratni high school, Kulik Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, who had been sent by the Communists to Volin by the candidate of the Ukrainian national deputy. He was unjustifiably dismissed by the order of Ratnivsky District, head of Domalchuk, Petr Antonovich, from his position as director of the better district of the school, and he was not allowed to take lessons. Illiteracy from a legal point of view was issued on the second day following the arrival of the district chief of education, Djimulic. An unwarranted order was given to the Hood, his authority was undermined in the eyes of his parents and teachers, a health hazard was created, and he had to stay in the hospital for a long time. For almost two months, the trial took place under the severe pressure of district and regional organizations. The court found that the dismissal was illegal and brought Director Kulik back to work, paid for his forced absence. What made me enter the Supreme Council’s rostrum for the second time? First, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in my first speech, I asked you to give a protocol commission to the Ministry of Education to intervene and stop baseless persecution. This was not done as a violation of my right as a national MP. So far, I have not been informed that as you have responded to my call to you. Secondly, the court has made a fair decision, but who investigates the baseless prosecution of the school principal, two officials from education. Please give me this time the protocol commission of the Minoswita to conduct a service investigation into the appropriateness of being in the positions of Dzemovich and Domalczuk and to inform me in the legal term of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u96	Thank you. I mean, the honourable colleague that the commission was given and the answer is, but the answer is. Well, we'll figure it out and keep it informed. National Deputy Lechchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u97	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! When the air in this room is shaken by what we're talking about social protection of the population, when the documents we're offered refer to both the messages of the Supreme President and the government programme, and the main directions of budgetary policy next year, it's about social references to these documents, it's in practice going the other way. The social guarantees of the population are collapsing, including vulnerable populations. In Chernigov, for example, there is a grocery store on the street of Rodimtseva 105, where food supplies for war invalids and the Armed Forces are served. The City Council at its session decided to rent the store to an entrepreneur along with a committee of war invalids and the Armed Forces, which was stationed there, in that room. and A little later, this year, in May, the City Council, under pressure of the head, decided to sell the store together with the committee to the same entrepreneur. Of course he'll throw the committee out of this store. I was asked by representatives of the War Disability Committee and the Armed Forces to provide assistance. As a result, I gave a parliamentary address to the city’s head, Černigov Sokolov, for that purpose. "As a Ukrainian national deputy, a group of voters, members of the Montenegrin City Disability Committee of the Great National War and the Armed Forces, have been asked to protect their legal rights in respect of the commercial service of disabled persons by the food group at 105 Rodemtsev Street, 5. On this basis, on the basis of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, I ask you to consider the next session of the City Council on the suspension of the decision of the City Council on 16 May 2002 regarding the sale of shop 105 and the preservation of the Department of Disabled Persons in it. This will protect the interests of this category of veterans in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantee Their Social Protection. The City Council session took place on May 19. The question has not been considered by this time, but it has been quite a while since June 17th, and I have not been given any answers. Although, according to the People's Deputy Status Act, they had to be answered in 10 days. So I'm asking you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that our Supreme Council really should not be, as you said yesterday's "passage yard" will take steps to ensure that local heads of state and district administrations respond to our appeals according to valid legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u98	Thank you. National Deputy Solomonine, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u99	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues! Dear Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Communist faction was referred to by a group of voters in the town of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki for violations of electoral legislation during the election of the city's head and city council in the town of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. For this reason, I asked the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the mass violations of electoral legislation during the elections, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and local self-government bodies in the Donetsk Region, the cities of Odessa, Kirovograd in January-March and June 2002 Zubova Valentina Sergiyovich. But I am not sure that this appeal may be considered on this committee in connection with the fact that the commission’s very name is very clear about its questions. The point of the matter is that the four Preyaslav-Hmelnicki City Court, the last time on May 11, this year, acknowledged the actions of the Rejaslov City Election Commission on the convening of the illegal and the decision of this session illegal. An election commission was required to hold an organizational session of the Assembly Hall Council in accordance with law. But the cart is there now. The case has already reached the Kyiv District Court of Appeal and even the Supreme Court of Ukraine. So, please, Your Honor, Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, give a protocol commission to the Provisional Commission of the Dental Valentina Sergiyovich to consider the case in question for the town of Trzeslov-Hmielnick among the matters which are in the light of this commission. The relevant documents have already been submitted to this committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u100	Thank you. National Deputy Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u101	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! With this message, I would like to draw the attention of the Kabmin representatives, if they remain, and representatives of the profiling committee, the Committee on Environmental Policy of the Supreme Council, to the problem that is now being exacerbated in Poltavska, to the environmental situation that is now in the area. There are 27 health care establishments in Ukraine that work in the congregation. Animal carcasses, which improve the ecological situation, are prevented from spreading infectious diseases among humans. The factories are part of the Ukretsanzavod association, they belong to the state property, they're planned-to-use, they're privatizations are not subject to you understand why. The Ukrainian National Budget Act 2002 is intended to direct 6 million 53,000 dollars to ensure the operation of these factories. Unfortunately, the budget is not being implemented. In January/May of this year, actually, 600,000 dollars have been allocated. I mean, 10 percent, less than 10 percent. In the first half of the year, 172 thousand dollars were planned for the Horol plant of Poltava. In fact, 36,000 dollars are allocated, which is less than 21 percent. Because of the lack of funding, the work was halted by a number of plant manufacturers: Kirovograd, Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv, Sumskie. He also suspended the work of the Novosanjar Vetsanzawad of the Poltava region. Horol’s Vetsanzavod was in a difficult situation. The plant owed wages, gas and electricity, and is on the verge of closing down, stopping. Under these circumstances, in implementing the budget law, Minfin, I feel obliged simply to provide financial assistance, supporting a factory worth 120,000 dollars. Stopping an active plant can exacerbate the environmental situation in the Poltava region, particularly in areas with which it is bordered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u102	National MP Mokchan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u103	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Paul Mobchan, Victor Yushchenka block, faction of "Our Ukraine." I would just like to ignore Mr. Mihowich's speech, which becomes an arbitrator here from the Communist Party on national issues, and he treats even his own history and the notion of "Russia" binds to some narrow country. I would like to remind you that Russia was a very broad concept and remains a historical category that is not limited to just the notion of Russianism from the Carpathians. You see what this Russian movement was about. You know who fed Mihowich, not Mihowich, but your Paul Magoch. And it was an attempt to divide Ukraine. But that's not what I got married to, because history knows what Russians, Russian and Russian are. These are identical things. And turn off some kind of one historical category and today operate and speculate when it's long since been solved. I would like the same concept of vocabulary not to be speculative today. We do not limit the category of vocabulary to just these three representatives or three branches: Belarus, Ukraine, and Russia. Slovenia is a broad category. And then let's go into the western terrain, not just to limit ourselves to the east. If you are calling for the unification of the Slavs, call on the Poles and Bulgarians and Macedonians and all others and Slovaks as well as your neighbors. Let's go talk to them. You, somewhere far from Belarus, far from the Carpathians, solve Ukrainian problems along with our "friends." Let the "sibers" solve the problem first from Lukashenko. But on behalf of the Ukrainian World Coordinating Council today, I am forced to make an appropriate statement. The Ukrainian World Coordinating Council, which has entrusted me today and which is responsible to the world of Ukraine for strengthening the position of the Ukrainian word in Ukraine and beyond, is taking on the process that is taking place today in the linguistic and cultural sphere of Ukraine with the greatest concern. This is exactly the question that remains out of consideration, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, today in the discussion of the Cabinet Program and its program. The language issue is out, culture is out. I think this is a very serious relapse. We need to talk about the most important component of the government program: cultural. All nations, when they start building their national spheres, give priority to culture. And that's what the nation is all about, these are the only possible principles. If we don't have high technology, if we don't have high indicators, what analytical tools say, culture is a living organism, we don't have to remove it outside. Unfortunately, I'm saying this in nowhere, because there is no government, and when we're said to be alone in front of each other, we're talking about that area that is the decisive prospect for our lives. And there's a problem in this area. There was this sector of speech, it's been accounted for. There was a sector at the Cabinet of Ministers that was already "monitoring" Yushchenka, he's been accounted for. Today will be sitting, I know, at the beginning of Ivan Fedorovich Kuras the spelling commission is already a new composition, new principles, new visions and new political tasks, as if the language issue is political again. It is a historical and necessary category. Programmes were planned for the government in 1997 - 2001 to develop the Ukrainian language. No change was foreseen. Last year 25 million were laid, and they disappeared during the elections. This year, 25 million were laid when Russia makes billions. I'm done. $2.5 billion, the Russian Federation for Russian Language Development, which is in no danger. We can finally make some adjustments and approaches, the most important approach in this session hall, and realize that without the consolidating factors of culture, we can't talk about the Ukrainian perspective. And that is why I would like, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to provide you with appropriate instructions for the next year's program of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers to provide and make sure that funding for Ukrainian culture and Ukrainian language is provided. Because if today's highest wage in culture is 124 bracelets, which Ukrainian culture we can talk about when tax inspection raised you know the wages up to a thousand dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! The problems and questions that have been raised during your presentations will be given the necessary instructions. I ask the Secretariat to prepare these assignments. The people’s MP Mihović has a word for replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u105	I'd like to say that the honourable leader's education on songs is generally well-known about the fact that Russians and Russians are not identical concepts, first of all, even though they are interconnected. The second is that the Russian people are a non-local phenomenon of Zacarpathian, and the Russians live in 20 countries of the world, forming an ethnic community, and the third is that I don't want us to politicize it as some people want to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-05-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! The meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next meeting will take place at 10 a.m. on July 9.
