ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please take your jobs, get ready for registration. A roll call is being made. Please turn on the "Race" system. There are 356 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. Dear colleagues! Let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Mr. Borzih Alexander Ivanovic, as part of the parliamentary faction "The One Ukraine" and the Final Mirronenko Valeria Gabrielovna as part of the Communist Party's deputy faction. Documents are needed. I welcome the factions with padding. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! We continue to discuss an issue that has not yet been completed. This is about choosing the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, according to the decision we made at the morning session, to answer the question, the word is given to John Stepanovich Plush. Please, Ivan Stepanovich. As long as Ivan Stepanovich is coming, please sign up. Please explain. Ten minutes. Assadchev. Please. Behind him is the Chelombite.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u2	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Thank you. Ivan Stepanovich, you are already, you might say, the patriarch of Parliamentarianism in Ukraine, and I want to ask you one question. You know, in the last cadence, we changed the fundamental procedure for making decisions. You were in charge of the Supreme Council, and when we voted immediately after the debate, and when we voted in one day. So I want to hear from you, how do you think it's better? Should we not return to the old system of things? Should we leave the system that has been adopted in the last two years in the Supreme Council of the past call and vote in one day? Here's your point of view, I think it's going to be very right, because you were in charge anyway, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u3	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 209, Chernigiv region]] I'll be honest with you that making changes to the Rules was dictated by the circumstances in which the Supreme Council came into existence. This voting practice, as we have applied for the last two years, is an exception, not a rule for European civilised parliamentaryism. There are other examples. Even the system that we had before is not exclusive. There are many systems and voting methods -- both technical and time-bound. There are, for example, many parliaments where plenary meetings are held twice a month. So they vote when they meet, whether it's Thursday or Wednesday or Friday. I mean, there's no such thing. I think we need to go back to the practice that we had, but we don't put a limit on improving it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u4	Chelombite. Please. After him, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u5	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 198, Cherkas region]] Ivan Stepanovich! Please tell me what needs to be done in Parliament to make the work in Parliament more constructive? Because there are empty conversations today, there are insults, and there is no construct. You have a lot of experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u6	From my experience, I'll tell you that there's no empty talk in Parliament. Parliament is a reflection of more or less the form of a rally. I've already said and said that there is one function of the rally parliament. If this rallying function is held in Parliament, it goes according to the Rules of Procedure Act or according to the Rules and other normative acts, and it closes off such rallying in areas, streets and so on and so forth. That's the first one. The other one. I have said several times, not only today, that there are no important and irrelevant laws in Parliament, because the subject of the right of legislative initiative has the constitutional right to introduce a draft law, and he has no interest in who treats it as important or not important. And the third. There can be no broad debates, no discussions in Parliament. It is desirable for them to pass in a tolerant form so that they pass more thoroughly and effectively. But discussions, including hot ones, are a work form for Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u7	Rudzkowski. Please. After him, Nadjajko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u8	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear John Stepanovich! I have three questions for you. First. Will you vote for Kuchma's resignation as President of Ukraine? This is a fundamental question for us. The other one. How can you explain that the district administration, district administrations, fired socialists, motorists, and now you're being promoted by "Our Ukraine"? [[substitutes]] And the third question. Where are the guarantees that you won't leave our Ukraine the way you left the NDP that put you out? As Head, you were given five committees, and you left the party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u9	Let me start to answer from the last question, it's the easiest. I wasn't going anywhere. The head of the Supreme Council is considered to be a non-fractional deputy, and since my election, I have been a non-fractional one. That's the first one. The other one. How many committees to give, which committees, and under what conditions — I was not a subject of contracts and trades. I was not a subject of contracts and trade! They traded and introduced methods without me. And the answer to the first question is, am I going to vote for Kuchma's resignation? I won't vote because I don't see any reason to talk about it today. I think it's not a valid question, not only in terms of Kuchma, but also in terms of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u10	Please, People's Deputies. After him, Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u11	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Please pass on the word of Cibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u12	Please turn on the Zibank microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u13	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Anatoly Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Ivan Stepanovich! In this room there are a number of previous vocations that are members of today’s vocation. I mean from the 11th to the 14th. And perhaps few of them do not know about your extraordinary ability to make the decisions you need in this room. It's really a very big skill for you. And in that sense, I'd like to remind you another one. The few parliaments that you headed as the Head of the Supreme Council were not working on their fixed term of office. In particular, on the 11th call, you and Kravczuk reduced the cadence for one year. In your previous call, you overturned the Supreme Council. So I would like to ask you what to prepare for the Supreme Council for this convening when you are elected Head of the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u14	Dear Peter Stepanovich! I have no bill, no draft decision that would be useful to me, lobbying or stretching. That's the first answer. Second answer. I really put to the vote the question of the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's 12th call. But if you look at who initiated this question, who demanded it, and what mining teams were here, what was the representation, which was the color at all, then I'll tell you that the Supreme Council of the 12th Assembly, as I am, has done very well. At first, the charges were that this Supreme Council was elected by the Soviet Union and could not exist under an independent Ukraine. The MPs didn't want any stains on them. [[I wonder if we could pick a better word.]] There was a second charge that they were deputies who came to the Supreme Council and wanted to receive benefits from a young state rather than work for the state. Too bad you weren't then, but you're an experienced man and you know it. And the third is that, on both sides, there were urgent demands for the early suspension of parliamentary powers. Both thought that if new elections were held, they would be in the Supreme Council in the majority. The situation showed that both force and force were wrong. They did not reach their goals. But we did it civilizedly, in the legal order. As for the Second Supreme Council, when I represent the Supreme Council. If I were to twist the film for you, Peter Stepanovich, I think you'd want to dissolve it more than I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u15	People's MP Kirilchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u16	I'm sorry. As far as this Supreme Council is concerned. You see my public statements. Yesterday, in a speech and a report on the state of legislation in Ukraine, I said that the professional, professional level of elected national deputies gives me reason to assure you that the work of today's Supreme Council will be more productive, more effective. So I want to wish us all success.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u17	I announced a speech by the People's Deputy Kirilchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u18	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] "Julia Tymoshenko's Block." Dear John Stepanovich, well, you won't deny that the last few years of the Supreme Council have been wiped out by the legs -- who hasn't been lazy. The president almost cried all the time: how he wanted to dissolve the Supreme Council, how little he had authority. This was passed down. This is where the heads of government sit, and they won't deny that at the local level, as well as as as soon as possible, black paint will be used by the Supreme Council, and they won't miss a moment. You were the only defender of the Supreme Council's authority, because you could only be admitted to all media. You kept your neutrality, to put it mildly. And it must have been your fault that we, the higher legislature, wiped our feet. In no state has Parliament been as corrupt as we are. Will you change your position if you are reelected?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u19	I want to tell you this. When I first had a conversation with the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, about my appointment as Head, there was a referendum in which there were six questions, one of which was the trust of the Supreme Council. [[You know, I wasn't the first candidate.]] I said, "Dear Leonide Danilovich! I was once in office in connection with the Supreme Council’s early release. If this question is included in the referendum, I can't say for sure that we're working on a constitutional term or a cadence." [[and the results of the referendum are not difficult to predict, evidence of sociological research]] And I'm proud that Leonid Danilovich, at my request and the request of other political forces, withdrew this question from the referendum. [[B in m in s a l in]] I took that question out of the referendum. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, the court. You give me a chance to answer, and then you fix it. So I think it's not a flaw, it's kind of a positive thing. It's about wiping your legs. I answered that yesterday. Well, it's not the best term, because, for example, I haven't seen dirty pants or jackets. [[It's Eugene Kirilchuk I'm talking to.]] There wasn't anyone there to tell me anything about them. With regard to the approach to publicizing the work of the Supreme Council in the media, the ability of minorities or opposition to express their views, there have been pressures and oppressions. I'm telling you again, whether I'm chosen or not, but it's going to be extremely difficult to achieve publicity under modern law. That's why I said yesterday that the Supreme Council shouldn't ask anyone to explain their work. [[I think I'm supported by most of the deputies in the hall.]] She can only consult with her constituents on this matter. I was talking about the channel. I don't want to take your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u20	Thank you, Ivan Stepanovich, for your answers. We've been using it for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u21	And thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u22	Dear colleagues! In accordance with our decision to discuss the candidates, the representatives of each registered faction shall be entitled to three minutes each. So please, who wants the faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to listen twice to the same candidate’s question. I think it's inappropriate. It doesn't matter how many packages. At any rate, there are three candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Each of them answered your questions for ten minutes. Now, according to the decision taken, once again, they have the right to speak for three minutes from each of the reported factions. So far, we've got a play by Alexander Alexander Moroz. Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich. Representatives of other factions, please write down if you want to participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u23	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues! The election of Parliament's leadership cannot be considered in isolation from the content of the political process in Ukraine. Is it an alternative to being Ukraine's democratic or clan-dictor state? These two choices went through the polls. Three quarters of the voters expressed their support for policies other than those of today. They cast their votes for the Yushchenka block, the Ukrainian Company, the Timoshenko block and the Ukrainian Soccer. These are the very subjects of the electoral campaign that people consider to be opposition, and they look to them for a positive change in the country. Consultations show that such expectations can be largely met. Yes, it's difficult because it's about the joint efforts of communists and motorists, socialists and PRPs. It's hard, but it's real if there's a country perspective on the basis of the compromises. More simply, it's about stopping the state's robbery, democratizing social life, protecting human rights and freedoms. Without it, there will be no efficient economy, no human well-being, no guarantee of state sovereignty. Such conclusions have been made many times, and now is not the time to stop. Already, once again, there are planned political speculations about parliament, its composition, its content of work, the subject of the Tax Code, the budget, privatization, pension reform and so on. The greatest effort is being made by those who would, for example, have to make a draft of the Tax Code. It's a different matter. Even decent laws in Ukraine will not work, for in Ukraine power is usurped. Examples of many. Think of the shaded privatization, the distribution of archergos, combines, heat and so forth. And Ukraine's laws provide for a transparent, competitive stock market system. There are no laws on education, health care, and so on and so forth. They don't work, because power isn't as organized as it was supposed to be. We need to change the government system. People need to know that after such a change, the laws work. We need to get past speculation, lies, comments. The logic is simple: there will be normal power, there will be laws, there will be people living better. The instrument of change is Parliament. It's a huge faction of the constituency "For the One Ukraine!".. A simple blackmail is used. As it is done, members of this faction know, and I don't think they're satisfied with it. Nothing, take it easy, it won't take long. "For Ukraine's One!" has the opposite of the interests of the electorate, such as to extend the implementation of the false referendum. This was also discussed by Vladimir Litwin, also by John Stepanovich. They know that this is the greatest threat to Ukraine, to legally consolidate the dictatorship. And you can't let that happen. Then they will become the usual prisons at the top, the chasms of the disagreeable, the killings of the unruly, and so on. And society does not want to live under the fifth clan regime after the 2000 - 2001 campaign, and it expects us. To conclude, I will say that these expectations must be justified. We should start with Parliament's leadership. For these reasons, the faction cannot consider the packages that put the names of Plush and Lithuania first. Much depends on the faction of the Communists. And the democratic opposition that they're part of, and "For the One Ukraine!" They are offered the same options. In the first case, it's a compromise, in the second case, it's clearly not a compromise. And I believe they'll make a choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u24	Excuse me, Alexandre Alexandrovich. The "Julia Tymoshenko Election Block" gives its time to Alexander Alexandrovich. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u25	Thank you. I won't spend that much. Once again, in the second one, it's not a compromise, but using the candidates' first position, I want to say. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this position requires respect for MPs. You don't have to love, you don't have to look for enemies, you just have to respect them. And what I'm saying is that the same Ivan Stepanovich and I, including in the four years leading the House of Enemies, have not benefited. And even when you answer specific lines that are absolutely relevant to the essence of the question, you can't stop your anger as if you hired these people, as if you had assigned them. They're already in a different status, they're members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] In general, we think the faction thinks that the better option is that the head of Parliament is from "Our Ukraine," namely, Victor Yushchenko, the deputies -- from the communists and the Tymoshenko bloc or, say, the socialists. It's also possible when there's an MP in third place from "For the One Ukraine!".. Then this will reflect the results of the election. Let's consult and make no mistakes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u26	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u27	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] Your Honor! Dear colleagues! Our voters during the election campaign were in a much easier situation than we were with you. Why is it easier? Because they had the perfect candidate in the majority districts and they chose us with you. On the party list, they had the perfect party and chose the party they voted for. Unfortunately, we don't have that possibility with you because we don't have an ideal version of all the explosives we've brought here today. I say, by transforming through myself, the position of "our Ukraine." Can Mr. Litwin lead the Supreme Council? Why can't he? A healthy, normal man survived a car accident, although he once glued the sticker on the right side, the second time on the left: he forgot. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's not what I'm talking about. Parliament cannot be the leader of a party that has won elections in hospitals, hospitals, prisons, and other places. That's also true, because we know that. In my district, his party took 2.1 percent. [[I can't, there's the will of my constituents, for Lithuania to vote]] I didn't even get four. We have a representative from the Communists. The situation was that, of course, the Communists today have a number of votes, many of which depend on them, but to be honest, they took second place in the electoral struggle. Now I'm going to the most difficult, because I know that John Ivy's figure is ambiguous, there are fans here, there are enemies, there are people who can't stand him, and there are people who respect him. I don't consider Ivy an ideal figure. And it hurt me so much when he stood like a shadow two years ago behind Leonid Danilovich, trying to save the situation and all, and he lost so much of it as a person. But I'm convinced that even at this point, understanding that he was still working for Ukraine to stabilize Ukraine. I like the fact that Ivan Plush is not just a boy in the hands of our President today. So "Our Ukraine" thinks that in this complex, once again, without an ideal leader, we have to support John Stepanovich Plush. And you must vote as your conscience tells you. Thank you for your attention and believe in your wisdom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u28	Let us do so when the discussion is over, and I will certainly give the floor to those national deputies whose names were called in the hall. Is there no objection? Moreover, it is according to the Rules. The word is from the faction "The One Ukraine" by the national deputy Bandurka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u29	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 176, Kharkiv Region]] Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! Surely the crucial time is right for us to find some understanding. I'm a major, fourth time in the same district I'm picking an increasing number of votes. And when you're here. It really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u30	You also know how to order if you're trusted by the electorate. Let's not argue. Dear voters! When they speak only on behalf of those deputies elected by party lists, there are 223 deputies elected directly by the electorates in the districts. And one way to think about it is there's 30, there's 40, there's 60, and the rest, those who have had direct contact with the electorate, we don't count. This is what the Communists call it, because they don't have any majors. And the people say that chickens count in the fall. Here it is, in the faction of "The One Ukraine" of 180 deputies. Logically, the greatest faction claims to have its Head. We're putting our package out logically. I'd like them to listen. I would like to address those MPs who are not sitting here for the first time, not the novices to whom we show great respect and love as young, energetic and promising. What did we miss, what was missing from the Supreme Council? And that's because we worked on the principle that the biker Leonid Glibov described in the story of "The Swan, the Cancer and the Hammer." The president is one, the government is the other, the parliament is the third. Should the three highest branches of government be united in order to wash the plow in the same direction? And I think this would be the most appropriate trinity that we've offered to lead with Litwin Volodymyr Mikhailovich. We love him or don't love him, but he has the most potential to combine the efforts of Parliament, the President and the government. The three of us are the best choice, in my opinion. At last, there will be communication with other political forces. We're open to negotiations, no one's ever gonna say that I've touched someone's label or insulted anyone. It's not my level. I urge you to think clearly, to negotiate. After all, the people are waiting for us to see the drafts, not the marathon of another speakeriad. Thank you all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u31	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. From the faction of Social Democrats, Medvedchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u32	Ukrainian national deputy (mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Dear National Deputies! Your Honor! Dear guests! I would like to support the proposal now set out in the two projects proposed by the so-called "packs" to run the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is proposed as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvin Vladimir Mikhajlovich, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, and in one of the packages for deputy Musiak, and in the other, as representative of our faction, Zinchenko Alexander. What arguments are there in favour of the election of the Supreme Council’s leadership under the leadership of Lithuania’s leader, Vladimir Mikhailovich? It's different here to say who deserves to be the Head of the Supreme Council, and who doesn't, to refer to comedy, to tragedy, to everything else. I think that we, elected to this Parliament by majority and party systems, make up one whole, the only legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the 447 people's deputies who have taken an oath can claim the same amount, and most importantly, this is their constitutional right -- they can be elected to any leadership position in Parliament. Now, why is it that Litvin Vladimir Mikhailovich should lead, in my opinion, the view of our party, factions, parliament. We talk very often about the conditions in which Parliament works. And even today, one of the candidates, who was already working in Parliament and who was represented in the leadership, was asked a very good question by my colleague Karmazin, but not one of the many questions that could be asked: how do we sit in this room, how do we work for a few hours, while defending the legislative process that our electorates expect of us? And I'm going to add as a person who's had the opportunity to take two positions, that's about the technology of the legislative process, the assistants, the funding and even the problem that every parliament starts and ends all the time -- the disclosure of the work of the Supreme Council. So when I call it Lithuania, without exaggeration I would like to say one thing: a person with great experience and authority in executive power who can provide many processes that will create the Institute of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not only as a constitutional but also as an active institution of state authority is Litvin Vladimir Mikhajlovich. And let's help him with the possibilities, the authority and the resources he had in the executive branch, by cooperating with this executive authority, to demonstrate in his role as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm sure next time there'll be no questions about what conditions we're working on, whether they are today that help us work on legislation. Our party, our faction will support this very candidature. I urge you all to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u33	Thank you. A representative of the Communist faction, the national deputy of Gmir, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u34	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! We've got a couple of bags in front of us. Naturally, I will defend the package proposed by the Communist faction. That's understandable. I will not say anything bad about those colleagues who have been nominated by other factions because they have been nominated by large groups of people. These people must have some reason for that. But I'll tell you what, dear colleagues. Every candidate who nominated, not to mention Adam Martinuk, met with the rejection of a certain part of the hall. I will not talk about the answers to a candidate's questions; intolerance has raised questions in these answers. But here's an example. Viktor Vladimirović Medvedchuk and Ivan Stepanović Plush worked together for quite a long time in a relationship with the Supreme Council. Victor Vladimirovic does not consider it possible to recommend Ivy to the presidency. Despite the fact that they worked together and always claimed to be in the same relationship. Adam Martinuk's candidacy did not meet with resistance, everyone stressed in substance that he was competent, sufficiently tolerant, and I firmly believe that he could unite the Supreme Council in order to address, not political, political, but legislative tasks for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. And one more thing. There was a remark here that there were no majors in the Communist faction. First, they are, and secondly, to the great regret, dear colleagues, must say that, as the elections were held, today the position of the Mayors does not always reflect the views of the people of Ukraine, but unfortunately the views of the majorists themselves. That's why, I think, the charge of majors being made is simply not correct enough. People have different views, and they will vote on their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u35	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Dear colleagues! In line with the decision we have approved with you, representatives of all six factions have participated in the discussion. So we're done talking. Next. His name was called the Lithuanian national deputy, and he insists on a rep. Please turn on the microphone of the national MP, Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u36	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Dear National Deputies! I wouldn't want to go down to Vladimir Yavorowski's level, but he insulted 180 people's deputies. Unfortunately, there were applause. This, I think, is an expression of "democracy," that is, different approaches. That's the first one. The other one. Dear National Deputies! He touched the purely personal, purely human, trying to tempt him. Now I'd like to say the following. Mr. Yavorowski, when I visited you in the hospital, I only now understood the diagnosis. [[Applause]] And I also wanted to say. You probably watched TV once in a normal state, and the other one from the ceiling. And one more thing. Mr. Yavorowski, I would advise you as a person who worked very hard in the archives and read a lot of archival documents, that, first of all, you should not measure your greatness by the shadow of the setting sun, and second of all, I was never a flugger and, I'm sure, I won't. And in closing, I wanted to tell you that you should understand that archives are not burning, especially party ones. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u37	Dear colleagues. I see, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, I see. Dear colleagues! I remind all of you that there is a rule of law that says that if a member's last name is given at the time of the speech, this MP is entitled to a rep. But let's not make this rule limitless. So when we speak and answer in reply, let's not call the names of others. In accordance with the Yavorowski Rules, I give him my word. But please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, don't call any names. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u38	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will not go into discussion with you, I need not be intimidated by any archives there. I'm just grateful that your reply convinced me once again that I was right about what I was saying. I am very grateful for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u39	And I thank you very much, Vladimir Alexanderovich, for the tolerant replica that allows us to continue our sessions. I am bringing to the attention of the National Deputies that today, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Preparatory Deputy Group, there was a meeting of the Provisional Counting Commission. At its meeting, the interim Counting Commission took organizational action, first of all chose direction, and resolved other issues. With your permission, for our further work, I give the floor to the head of the interim People's Commission of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Mishuri Valery Dmitrovic. Please, Valery Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u40	The head of the interim Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you that at the first organizational meeting of the interim Counting Commission, elected by this composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the Counting Commission, Mishur Valeriy Dmitrovitch, Deputy Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich, and the Secretary of the Committee, Fomenko Catherine Alexandrovna, were elected. You know we're going to vote separately on each packet, there's going to be a few votes if some packet doesn't pass. So we need about 30 minutes to prepare the ballots. After that, we will be able to report to you on the voting order and then we will vote. We usually spend 40-45 minutes voting, and we spend about 40 minutes counting votes. [[approximately 45 minutes]] This is from the experience of work in 1998. So we ask the members of the Counting Commission to meet right now where we're going. As soon as we're ready, we'll let you know where and how we vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u41	Thank you, Valery Dmitrievich. If you have any questions, please sign in. So far, I have a question for you, Valery Dmitrovich. So how much time do you ask, how long do we have to call a break because we've come to the question? We have no further questions to discuss, and we will have to call a recess. Please sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u42	We always spent 30 minutes preparing ballots. Since we have many new members of the commission, we ask about 40 minutes to prepare the ballot papers so that we can report back to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u43	Please show us who signed up. Oh, a lot of people. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, seven minutes to answer a question to your head. People's MP Drogunzov. Please. Following him is Deputy Burak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u44	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Valery Dmitrovich! Explain to me, will you give us four ballots right away, or will we wait 40 minutes each time, then another 40 minutes, then 50? Why don't you give us four and we'll vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u45	I answer your question. Subparagraph "d" of the Supreme Council's ruling on the procedure for considering the election of the Head states that the voting procedure takes place after the conclusion of the discussion. Voting is done separately in the order in which they are introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! I realize that this is the members of the Temporary Counting Commission who have come to visit their premises, but the break is still unannounced, and we still have the answers to our questions. National MP Alexander Burjak. Following him is Deputy Nikolaynko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u47	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Please pass the word to Stoyan, the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u48	Please turn on the microphone of Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u49	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Adam Ivanovich! I realize it's too late, but, really, if we go to vote for one pack, for the other, for the third one, this week will last. Each faction put out its own package, so why don't we have the right to put out all four packets and pick one of the packets? Let's be democratic. I propose that all four packets be put to the vote immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, be careful! It's a good offer, but you and I have voted on a total of 231 votes to vote separately for each package. This is already our decision. The next question is Deputy Nikolaynko. Following him is Deputy Tolstouchov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u51	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Electoral District 187, Herson District]] Dear Valery Dmitrovich! You and I in the Supreme Council of the past assembly have had a tremendous experience of a few dozen votes and we've probably spent, in the basement where the sum totals were coming up, I think, about a week or two exactly. Surely, the Counting Commission would have to consider a mechanism that would make it impossible for that disgraceful phenomenon to happen when all these ballots are being assembled. And I see it this way: the ballots appear in this room, the doors close for this period. They received a ballot, voted, and went out of that door so that no one would go out. And then we're not going to embarrass ourselves, and then we're not going to be ashamed of each other, and we're going to finish talking in a day or two. If we vote like last time, it's not two months, it's four months.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u52	Thank you for asking. We've made these proposals last time, we've also made an offer, like an electronic way to vote, like, say, in the voting room. They were not accepted by the hall. If you vote in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u53	The method defines the Counting Commission, not the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u54	The Counting Commission will now meet at its meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u55	Let's get together and say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u56	Tolstoy's national deputy. Following him is the deputy of the Head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u57	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Karpov Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u58	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u59	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear Valery Dmitrovich! Before the vote starts, it's both to you and to the Presidency that's in charge. We have candidates on our lists who are running for head and for deputies. If one of them takes self-recovery, the configuration system changes. It would be preferable before the procedure starts when the Counting Commission starts to work, so that each candidate is clearly identified, because some of the names are named in several packages, from which the package is considered necessary for its candidature to be removed. Otherwise, we will procedurally have a problem that we will have to solve very difficult organizationally.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u60	Alexander Mikolayovich, I support your offer. The issue is that the voting list is approved by the Supreme Council. These packets I have, there are no more proposals, we're going to act on these packets. If you make another decision, we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! I think we'll do the right thing, if before every vote, before we approve the form of the ballot, we're going to bet. Now it's about the first packet. If any of the proposed national MPs have a self-refoulement, he will say that he does not want to participate in this package. Let's start voting on the second packet -- the same thing, then the third and the fourth. Deputy Headate. After him, Deputy Masenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u62	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Julia Timoshenko's faction. Adam Ivanovich, from the fraction of the question to the head of the Counting Commission, I pass it on to the Turk. But to you, Adam Ivanovich, as chairman in the order of procedure or order of conduct: perhaps as chairman, you will use your right to extend a friendly thanks to the heads of administration for actively participating in the opening session that took place yesterday, and today they will be able to take tickets to the train or to the bus and return home to work. I offer you as chairman after all this to thank them. And for the sake of question, I'll pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u63	Turn on the Turkinov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u64	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear National Deputies! Many questions have to do with getting a few ballots right away. I reported the decision that we voted on with you. If a number of ballot papers are distributed immediately, it is not possible to exclude the immediate selection of two heads of the Supreme Council. I don't think the Supreme Council is interested. So we need to support the proposal of the Counting Commission -- to vote on each package separately. And a request to the head of the Counting Commission: When you tell us about the voting procedure, please give us a schedule in which time the ballot is scheduled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u65	Okay. But the Counting Commission did not determine the order of voting, as determined by the Supreme Council’s decree. And we'll prepare a graph for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u66	Deputy Masenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u67	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] I have both a question and a suggestion to the chairman and to the head of the provisional Committee of Counties. It is likely that even the first ballot will be delayed, for 40 minutes, then another 40 minutes, and then there will be a break. It is appropriate to wait for the results of this package and perhaps to vote on the continuation of today’s session.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u68	Thank you, Valery Dmitrievich. So the commission's meeting now, and we're going to continue for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u69	Members of the Counting Commission, please gather where we met.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! We need to solve a few questions. First of all, Sergey Petrovich the Chief. On behalf of all the national deputies, I sincerely thank those who have taken part and continue to participate in our meetings, and we thank them very much. But we invited them, they have their passes written down, and they have the right to participate in the entire first session, according to these passes. If they have such a desire, they may be present, and we will gladly observe and communicate with the heads of administration and the heads of district councils here, on the spot, if they have nothing to do there. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, we will, in fact, have to consult. A good suggestion was made by the National MP Masenko: To announce now a recess for about 30 minutes, or perhaps less, until the Counting Commission is ready to announce to us how to conduct the vote. Then, as Valery Dmitrovitch said, 40 minutes will take place. The proposal is, therefore, to continue the evening session until the results of the first vote are announced. Do you understand the offer? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Nothing prevents us from voting tomorrow, but I'll explain to you what prevents us from voting tomorrow. It's only 16 hours, 54 minutes. In accordance with our order, we have to work up to 18 hours. The chairman has the right to continue the session for 15 minutes. But in order to move faster tomorrow, we will listen to the results of the first vote. If we solve the question, well, tomorrow we approach others, if we don't, tomorrow morning we start voting on other packets. Do you understand the offer? I'll bet you a vote on that. [[B in m in s a l in]] The proposal to continue the evening session to announce the results of the first package vote is put to the vote. Please turn on the microphone of the Matvienka MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u71	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor". Adam Ivanovich, I don't see you and that's why I don't know if you're listening. I think we should not stretch the spikeriad or make people laugh. Let's make a decision, to vote four times -- it's not that hard. We're going to be very clear about the Counting Commission, which is the voting schedule. Nobody's going anywhere anyway. Let's not give night or day, let's show our desire to work effectively already. So put to the vote the proposal to vote today all four packages or to a successful vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! I see you've raised your hands. I'll give the word to each faction's representative. I see two hands from "the only Ukraine." Zarubinsky or Vaszczuk? Zarubinsky's deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u73	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I think that if we want to take advantage of the situation in some way, we have to follow the Rules. The Rules clearly state that our meeting will take place by 6 p.m., but the presiding officer can continue it as he pleases, without a vote, for only 15 minutes. So all of these suggestions, as it was fashionable to say today, "from the wicked one," let's make a note. All law-makers here have to abide by the Rules. So Adam Ivanovich's proposal is absolutely correct, and then we can end the sessional day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, representatives of all factions will take part in the discussion, don’t worry. From Socialists Who? Please, Karnauh. I see, I see, colleagues, everyone gets the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u75	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 152, Poltava region]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I propose to put to the vote the question of continuing our session by voting on all four packages. I think it's one question and you can't break it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u76	Thank you. Please, from the faction of the Social Democrats, Medvedchuk. Behind him is Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u77	The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Adam Ivanovich! Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! Adam Ivanovich, as chairman, I want to remind you, I'm sure you know very well that the decision to continue the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine could only be made at the morning meeting. No such suggestions were made, and we did not make such a decision. Therefore, according to the Rules, we do not have the right to vote on the continuation of the sitting after 18 hours, but rather on 18.15 by decision of the chairman at this meeting. So I think we should move on to the first vote, finish it, listen to the results, and tomorrow at 10 o'clock continue the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u78	Thank you. Dust or Stoyan, who? Please. Turn on the Dusty microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u79	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 12, Viennese Region]] Our Ukraine faction, Solidarity Group. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I believe that today, according to the Rules, we can put to the vote ad hoc, that is, for this case, the continuation of the session to vote on all four packages. Today, all political forces have declared that they would be willing to shorten the spikeriad procedure. We hope to establish a position on the leadership of the Supreme Council. I ask that you put this motion to the vote to take a decision ad hoc and continue the sessions to a successful vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, representatives of all parties who wanted to participate in the discussion of this proposal, expressed themselves. Thus, two proposals will be put to the vote. Pay attention! I'm asking you to take your seats. We're going to vote now. Alexander Markovich, this is not a violation of the Rules. We will now define everything by voting because we have the right to make any changes to the Rules by ad hoc. So it won't be a violation of the Rules. Now for the reasons of the vote, Medvedchuk, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u81	Adam Ivanovich, you have rightly noticed that we can make any changes. And the Supreme Council, as has been said today from the rostrum, can do anything at all. But now that we're talking about a change to the Rules, there's a procedure. Please make a draft decree amending paragraph 2.1.5 of the Rules, register, vote, and then this will be in line with the Rules, and continue the meetings until the second hour of the next day, that is, May 16. Otherwise, putting the matter to a vote would be a gross violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think we're clear. Such determination, if necessary, will be prepared, we still have time. The procedure is Frost, Klukkowski and Cherniak. Frost Alexander Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u83	Dear colleagues! There is no need to exaggerate the significance of this vote. It's a matter of procedure. The voting procedure has begun. The decision of the Supreme Council may have to do with the determination of the completion of the procedure. Moreover, we cannot interrupt meetings by starting a discussion of one issue, which is also a requirement of the Rules. Therefore, a vote should be taken on the continuation of the session until the results are obtained in all the ballots and it may be decided that we would like to congratulate the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u84	Klukkowski. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u85	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the National Movement of Ukraine. Your Honor! Dear fellow MPs! I especially address Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk. This is not about the continuation of the plenary session. It is a matter of deciding whether to suspend the voting procedure overnight or not. In this regard, the Rules do not say anything. Therefore, it is not and is not entirely legitimate to raise such a matter. The decision may be taken by the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u86	And the Hall will make a decision that it will consider necessary. Although the vote, but after the vote, we will have to gather in the session room, continue the sessions to hear the results of the vote. This will be no longer a vote, but a meeting. So Medvedchuk here is right. Nigga, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u87	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear National Deputies! Interrupting the process is unpleasant and harmful to health. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to draw attention to a number of shortcomings that allow for very experienced Parliamentarians. For example, MP Medvedchuk said, "The Supreme Council can do anything." The Supreme Council can do anything except what it can't. It can only do what it can, within its competence, within its functions, within what is enshrined in the Constitution. So the constant references to the fact that the Supreme Council can do anything, I consider legally and politically invalid. And finally. All those who spoke said that we were practically choosing the leadership, the head of the Supreme Council. Nothing like that, we choose the Head of the Supreme Council, who does not preside over the Supreme Council, but organizes its work. All MPs are equal! And there's no head of the Supreme Council and there can't be. And those people who take this position as leader, I don't think they can be the head of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u88	Musiak, and we will vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u89	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Ladies and gentlemen, here's the thing. Viktor Volodymyrovich is right: The extension of the meeting in the morning must be made in the morning. But this is part of the third article of the Rules. But here is the nuance, Victor Volodymyrovich, that's the last sentence, "under normal circumstances the decision to continue." If. We can view these circumstances as unusual. Next, Victor Volodymyrovich, there's a nuance! Part two of the same article is no longer to be voted on under normal or unusual circumstances. Listen carefully! The Supreme Council, if it does not make an ad hoc decision, holds two meetings during the day: mornings from 10 to 14 and evenings from 16 to 18, unless it makes another decision. Here's the key to solving the question, too, if you want to go on, as they say, to the cocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will vote. A woman still insists. I hope we have so few of them in Parliament that every woman's desire to do is required. Please turn on the Vashtuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u91	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, and of yourself, and of all the women who are to be deputized. Dear colleagues, what is the purpose of today's vote, the result? Choose the Head of the Supreme Council. In order for this to happen, it is desirable for everyone to be present and voting. Each one of us has planned his day differently. Don't shout, Your Honor. I've always sat as long as I need. And by seeking an immediate vote, we can cause someone not to vote. And we've all decided, everyone knows who he's going to vote for. So there's no acceleration, no transfer. We need to look for what unites us, not what quarrels and divides us. I think we should wait for the results of the first vote and proceed peacefully tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u92	Dear National Deputies! I see the girls are going to fight. Semenyuk. Please. Then there's Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u93	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. First of all, I want to say that we don't have to sign up for all women, Catherine Timothy. Second of all, I want to speak to the chairman. Adam Ivanovich, remember how we had to adopt the Constitution, and today we have to leave this room on just one condition -- after a successful vote. Because to ask a question -- that means that the heads of administration will be sitting here even more -- I think that's the kind of thing they're going to do is to collect ballot papers or some other procedure. So I want to ask you a question in general: until we have a successful vote, we should not leave this room. We've come to have a result. And I think that when we plan our work, we have to consider what Parliament has to do. One more thing to consider. The Supreme Council's apparatus is in suspension today: we need to appoint committees, we need to prepare bills, and if we want people to see us not in a funny way, but see the result, we need to vote in favour of working until we have a successful vote. There is also the Constitution, which is the highest legislative document of our nation, and we must consider that, if necessary, we voted at night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u94	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Please give the floor to National Deputy Grigorovitch. Behind her is Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u95	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of Victor Yushchenk's block "Our Ukraine." Highly esteemed colleagues, it has only been a long time since we took an oath to become national deputies. I don't think this time gives us any reason to say that we're already in some normal situation on Parliament's 328th day. No, it's not. Today we have embarked on an extraordinary unique procedure -- the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fourth vocation. Given that this procedure is unusual, and this is evidenced by our normative acts, documents, the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, the Rules, the Constitution, I believe that we can confirm this by ad hoc voting, and that will be perfectly correct. And finally. I assure you, as a woman of the faction of "Our Ukraine," that I would prefer to drink tea tonight instead of drinking tea or washing dishes to the end of this extraordinary procedure. And I think I'm supported in this by both Parliament and my family and my voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u96	Thank you. Yes, there are women who want to speak up. Suprano, please. So I understand that this is another confirmation that maybe the Presidium and the Supreme Council would also have to have a female representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u97	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Adam Ivanovich, thank you so much for your word, but I want to pay attention to this. The concept of an extraordinary situation is clearly defined by legislation, and fortunately, the election of the Chief of the Supreme Council is not part of such an extraordinary situation. So let's follow the procedure for voting on the proposals. You put your motion to a vote, and we think it's right, and let's check it in the voting room. Secondly, if an ad hoc vote is to be put to the vote, it should be carried out in accordance with the Rules, the procedure, and this procedure, I stress once again, requires a decision on condition that 300 votes have been received. So please, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Medvedchuk, Matthew, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u99	Dear Chairman! Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! Dear Victor Lavrentiovich, I agree with you that the election of the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can be assessed as extraordinary circumstances, because the term "under normal circumstances" used in the Rules has due legal meaning and content. But in order to implement what you said -- I agree with you that the leadership of the Supreme Council needs to be chosen even in extraordinary circumstances -- we need to propose a draft decision and accept it. Because that ad hoc decision, which is settled in such a way that only a vote is taken, we must now proceed through an appropriate draft decision. Therefore, the vote on the continuation of today's session, if changes are made to the Rules, is one thing, and the continuation of the session without amending the Rules is another matter. And I personally address you, Adam Ivanovich. Now 17.14, we'll talk a little bit more and we'll split up, and we won't even make the first vote. But that's not the point. The main thing, I think, is that, Adam Ivanovich, in the first ballot box, you're proposing to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You and I have great experience of being accused of breaking the Rules, and we do not violate it. Let us be sure that there is no basis for you to be accused of violating the Rules. I would like to wish you success in voting for the first package. Let us conduct it according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have announced the deputy of Matthew, and we will be clear, please don't raise your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u101	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're spending a lot of time here just to talk. There is a master document behind which the work of the Supreme Council is organized, the Rules. And the right Victor Lavrentiovich, when he referred to part two of article 2.1.5. But, Victor Lavrentiovich, there's a third part that the experts of our Rules are silent about, which says, "The meeting of the Supreme Council. may be continued by the chairman. No more than 15 minutes." And then the second sentence is, "Another one-time shift in working time can be made if the majority of the deputies voted for it without discussion from their actual number." That's it. Victor Volodymyrovich, and you forget that when you accepted here, you pushed the Earth Code, you forgot even the position of this part. That's why I'm proposing a vote. There are two proposals, they need to be put to the vote without further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. As long as they take up their seats, the word for replica has a deputy named Medvedchuk, whose name is Medvedchuk. Please. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleague Matthews! Let us not exaggerate the meaning of each of us, the meaning of the Rules, and the significance of the events that take place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Indeed, there is part of the third article 2.1.5, but you can read to the end. You quoted it all, except for the last sentence of this part of the third sentence: "In normal circumstances, the decision to continue the plenary session after 18 hours is made by the Supreme Council no later than in the morning session of the same day." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have found out. I'm going to allow myself to remind you of the winged phrase of John Stepanovich Plush, who said, "The Supreme Council can do anything." So as we vote, so it will be. So, please, two proposals are now being put to the vote. The first proposal is to continue today’s session until the results of the first package vote are heard. Please make up your mind. "For" - 189. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "For": "One Ukraine" - 152, "Our Ukraine" - 4, Communists - 2, Social Democrats - 28, Block Timoshenko - 0, Socialists - 0, non-fractional - 3. The second sentence is to continue today's session to announce the results of the vote of all four packets. Please make up your mind. "For" - 227. Decision taken. Please explain the factions. "For": "One Ukraine" - 0, "Our Ukraine" - 114, Communists - 62, Social Democrats - 0, Yulia Timoshenko - 23, Socialists - 21, non-fractional - 7. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to draw the attention of the media to convey all of this to our voters, how the national MPs want to work in an extracurricular time, you see with what inspiration. There's a 10-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, the head of the Counting Commission will be here any minute now, and we will continue the meeting. Literally one or two minutes, I said, he's on approach. Dear colleagues, we have the opportunity to continue this meeting. Please take up your jobs. There's an interesting announcement. Before I give my word to the head of the provisional Counting Commission, I will make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform: on the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich, into the "One Ukraine" faction; [[B in m in s a l in]] on the exit of the Ukrainian national deputy Polishchuk Kiril Ananiyovich from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" and his membership in the "One Ukraine" faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! And he wants to make a statement by Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u106	Dear National Deputies! With gratitude to all my colleagues who have nominated me as deputy head of the Supreme Council in draft regulation 1014-1, I ask you to remove my last name from the list. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the head of the interim People's Committee of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Mishuri Valeri Dmitrovicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, about the schedule of our work, because we have received information that we have decided to vote on all four packages.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u109	Three already, yes. We spent 45 minutes preparing ballots, printing, and protection. We are now thinking about speeding up this work, and we have some work to do about it. The Counting Commission shall determine 40 minutes for the vote. We're going to set up, say, a start, a time to vote and an end to the vote. We agreed to take 30 minutes to process the ballots after the vote. Count how much time we have for one vote. Each member at the registration desks is presented with a pink card. [[Without it you won't be able to get a newsletter]] Three names were added to this bulletin as the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. There's a square opposite this package. If you vote for this package, you have to put a plus in this box, or you have to make some other marker that shows your will. There's a sign below that says, "I don't support it." If you vote against this packet, you also have to put a plus or another. If there are two or no markers, this ticket will be considered invalid. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u110	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question for the head of the Counting Commission? Yes. Then please sign up. Please explain. If you don't mind, will five minutes be enough for us? Deputy Headate. Please. Following him is Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u111	I want to ask you, when does the first vote begin?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u112	It depends on how you now discuss these problems. We're ready for the tables, and the urns are ready, the ballots are ready. I mean, as soon as a team from the Bureau is given, I'm going to announce the start of the vote, and we're going to start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u114	Deputy Carmazin. Please. Following him is Deputy Borschevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u115	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine." Please tell me, do you not see the need to ask to change the package in connection with Victor Lavrentiovich Musiyaki's exit, to get him out of this package and thus not to consider this package at all? How Can I Get Out of This Legal Colleague?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u116	I don't think this is a matter for the Counting Commission, because there is a Supreme Council decision to vote in a bag. There's no more bag, I think. If a decision is to be made, it is the will of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u117	Deputy Borszewski. Following him is Zarubinsky's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u118	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please clarify once again how long will it take to complete the vote on one package?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u119	An hour and a half, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u120	Zarubinsky's deputy. Please. He's got an MP named Billorus behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u121	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to give the floor to National Deputy Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u122	Please turn on the Carp microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u123	Dear colleagues! In view of Victor Lavrentiovich Musiaka's removal from the package, which was proposed by the "One Ukraine" faction, I will inform you that we will now register a new package: Litvin Vladimir Mihajlovich, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and Zinchenko Alexander Alexiyovich. The number of packets increases to four, and the last two packets are combined for voting. We have to state our position in this way, and we claim it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u124	Dear colleagues! The faction's right, you and I have voted a special order, to put out any packets. So it's all natural. That's the first one. And the second. Such a package, described by Alexander Mikolaiovich, is already in place and remains in force. So far, no one has made any changes to him. This package was introduced by the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The "One Ukraine" faction confirms that such a package is being introduced on their behalf. I don't see any problems myself, I get it. Please have the floor as a member of Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u125	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Julia Timoshenko's faction. Dear Chairman! There can't be any sign-up for new packets of language -- it's a hamster. Another thing they want to join is to support an existing package. And to pass new packets during the vote, it's only a fantasy. I have a question: why don't we start the vote, why have we opened the debate? We need to start voting now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u126	I say again: The Counting Commission is ready to announce the start of the vote, but they started asking questions after my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this wisely. And wisely, it's probably going to be. We don't have any problems with Pack 1, if that's what we're going to call it. Now, if there's no objection, we're going to go to the vote, we're going to vote, and then we're going to be determined. Maybe we don't have to vote after that. When can we start voting, Valery Dmitrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, I would like to request that there be no more time in the voting area than it takes to fill out the ballot. The vote begins because there are no other problems, at 18 hours 17 minutes, and ends at 18 hours 57 minutes. Please proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u129	A vote is announced for about 1 hour and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u130	Please take your seats. The head of the Counting Commission is ready to report the results. Valery Dmitrovich, you must begin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to protocol 2 of the session of the Provisional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All members of the Counting Commission are present. They heard about the conclusion of the secret vote on the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine included nominations: Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, Musiaka Viktor Lavrentiovich, Toločko Petrovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the interim Counting Commission established: The total number of national deputies elected at the time of the session is 447; The number of Ukrainian national deputies whose credentials are recognized is 443; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 436; The number of national deputies who took part in the vote is 359, Number of invalid ballots - 4; The number of votes cast for the package of Martinyuk, Musiyaki and Določka - 172; package not supported - 183. In accordance with part one of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine and chapters 3.7 and 4. 3 The Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided that Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, Musiaka Viktor Lavrentiovich, and Toloczko are not elected to the respective positions. There are signatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u132	Thank you. Are there any questions? It's all clear. The process has gone and will continue. So please, Valery Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u133	I want to say what the Counting Commission is asking for right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] literally ten minutes to complete the preparation of the next packet, and then we'll be ready to tell you about further order of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u134	Valery Dmitrovich, please wait. Dear colleagues, now you and I need to determine which of the packets should be next. [[Or the commission will tell us.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u135	We think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u136	No, no, let the commission speak. Don't worry, the room will decide. Please, Valery Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u137	The commission discussed this issue because we had a conflict. The next package that was proposed and voted in the room is a package number 1014-1. But in exchange, there's a new package, where the names are the same as in the 1014-3 package. In this regard, we decided to follow the Supreme Council’s decree. And the Supreme Council decree states that the packets are voted in order of order of order of submission. Then the next package, as we thought, should be the one that offers Ivy, Martinyuk and Turkinov. [[But we've lost our minds here.]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! Some members of the Counting Commission feel that a replacement package is now required to vote. The commission has not reached a conclusion, so we ask that the hall instruct us on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u138	Thank you. Valery Dmitrovich, you might want to sit down or go do business with the commission, and we'll sort it out now. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this problem right now, the second package, where the Ivy candidate is? Is there no objection? None. Then, Valery Dmitrovich, we agree with you that the next packet will be served. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'll give you my word. You and I have made a decision that says that the packets are voting for the time of submission. In time, the package should now be voted on: Litwin, Martinyuk, Musiak. But since Musiak’s national deputy took self - help, this package no longer exists. [[His last name is in this package.]] The MPs to change this package have submitted another one, and this package is the latest in time for submission. Thus, the next time the delivery is a package containing the names Ivy, Martinyuk, and Turkinov. That is how you and I should vote in accordance with the decree we have adopted. Is there a denial? Please sign in. There's a denial on the right. Let's hear them out. Please. I see that there's only one faction to deny. Sign up, we'll find out. Please explain. If you don't mind, dear colleagues, let's literally take three minutes on this issue and vote. Taran. Please. After him, it's freezing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u139	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Julia Timoshenko's block. Dear Adam Ivanovich! It is clear and clear that the packets should be put to the vote in order of order of order of submission. Because a brand-new package that was offered with the block "For the One Ukraine!"was the last, then in order of order of order, of course, to put the package where the Ivy, Martinyuk and Turkinov. That's clear. And I wouldn't recommend taking too long. We have to work, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u140	Thank you. It's freezing. Please. Behind him is Saligin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u141	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! It's not even a matter of procedure, because it's all settled here. It's all clear. And the MPs exchanged their thoughts before that, and you made the conclusion quite precise. There shouldn't be a vote here, it's all clear. In accordance with your determination, you have already given such an order. I think you can just keep people here for two or three minutes, so they'll just be together, and no more, and then they'll go to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u142	Thank you. Saligin. Please. After him, Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u143	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 172, Kharkiv Region]] I ask you to pass the word to Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u144	Please turn on the Karpov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, we've agreed on a procedure. The procedure provides for the sequence of ballots for packets. Our package was taken. In exchange for that package, we later delivered another package, and it can only vote third or fourth with a pack of Social Democrats. We have no other procedure, we agreed on it, we have to implement it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u146	Thank you. Nasalik. Please. Behind him is Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u147	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 86, Ivano-Frankiv region]] Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u148	A cook? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u149	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 90, Ivano-Frankiv region]] Supernatural constituency. The faction of our Ukraine. I'd like Adam Ivanovich to make a little bit of a point about what we're going to do, because you're still talking about four bags in front of us. I want to emphasize that if we go in the order of the projects coming, then the project that's now being submitted in exchange for the previously distributed project is actually going to fall away, because in order of order of turn, the project under number 1014-3, where there are the same names. So we need to clarify the situation: there's no project now 1014-1, and there's no need to look at it, because otherwise we're going to consider practically the same project twice. So there can't be a 1014-1 in turn after the review of Project 1014-3, because otherwise we're going to consider twice the same candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u150	Thank you. If the deputy of Matthew does not insist on the presentation, let us sum it up. Now it's Sergei. The point lies just before that. Thank you, Deputy Boiler, he said what I told you, but you probably didn't understand me. In fact, there is a colossal colossality that in time a project was presented where such names were located. The package fell off in connection with the name being replaced. So in time, it's going to be the next one. And it matches the one given by the third. And it turns out that the fourth and third packets match, that's one packet. And I don't see any objection at this time in the Hall that we now have the commission of the Counting Commission to prepare for the vote a package containing the names of the national MPs: Ivan Stepanovich Plush, Martinyuk and Turkinov. [[Head]] [[First Deputy]] [[by an interlocutor]] Do I get it right? Then a five - minute break is announced. Dear colleagues! I can advise you. For technical reasons, you can still walk for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, we'll be starting in two minutes, so we can take a seat. We can do this sooner than we can in a minute. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, a word for information has been given to the head of the interim People’s Commission of the People’s Republic of Ukraine, Mr. Mishur Valéri Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, we invite you to vote for the next package. This is a package containing the names of candidates for office: Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - Plush Ivan Stepanović; First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich; Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - Turkinov Aleksandra Valentinović. The voting order is the same. I'd like to be careful because we've got four ballots that aren't real. [[Whether this is done separately or not the MPs have yet to realize how to vote]] The vote starts at 20 hours 49 minutes. The ending is in 40 minutes. Here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u153	A recess for voting shall be announced. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u154	Dear colleagues! We are happy to see again the head of the provisional Commission of Thought. The word has been given to the people’s representative of Mishur. Please report the results of the secret ballot.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u155	Dear National Deputies! Allow me to announce to you the minutes of the 3rd meeting of the Provisional Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, May 15. All members of the Counting Commission are present. They heard about the conclusion of the secret vote on the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine included the nominations: Plush Ivan Stepanovich, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, Turkinov Alexander Valentinovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the interim Counting Commission established: the total number of Ukrainian national deputies elected at the time of the session - 447; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 435; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote is 238; Number of invalid ballots - 2; foreign sheets are detected in the same color as ballots -18. The number of votes cast as candidates for Ivy, Martinyuk and Turkinova is 140; Not supported package - 95. According to part one of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, chapters 3.7 and 4. 3 The Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to consider the unelected Head of the Supreme Council, Ivan Stepanović, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Valentinović. Adam Ivanovich, if I may, I would like to say that our commission is ready to vote on the next package immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u156	Dear colleagues, the start of the vote is 21.57, the end of the vote is 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u158	A package with the names: Litwin, Martinyuk, and Zinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u159	Dear colleagues! As I look into the session room, I think we're getting more and more people's deputies every minute, that's very good. The hall is fully filled, and we are almost in full stock now to hear the latest report of the Temporary Committee of Countings today. Please, Valery Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u160	Dear National Deputies! Let me introduce you to the minutes of the 4th session of the Provisional Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, May 15, this year. All members of the Temporary Counting Commission are present. They heard about the conclusion of the secret vote on the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ballot papers included candidates: Litwin Vladimir Mihajlovich, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, Zinchenko Alexander Alexiyovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the interim Counting Commission established: the total number of Ukrainian national deputies elected at the time of the session - 447; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 447; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote is 294; The number of invalid ballots is 2. For the candidates who entered the package, Litvina Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, Zinchenko Alexander Aleksandyyovich voted 209 national deputies. [[Applause]] They didn't support the package, they voted against -3. In accordance with part one of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine and chapters 3.7 and 4. 3 The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s provisional Counting Commission decided to consider the candidates I had not been elected. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Questions? No, it's not. There are proposals now. It's freezing. Please. He's got a desert tank behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u162	Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I raised my hand because apparently I can only repeat what I suggested to the Desert Tenko Valerius Pavlovich. The point is that goodbyes will be arranged with Valery Lobanowski tomorrow. And there's a request that we start the morning session at 12:30, and then either by cancelling the lunch break, or by evening time, we continue the sessions. That would be, I think, an optimal option, because many members of Parliament will go to this farewell. It would be humanly justified and normal. I was offered this by Valérie Desert Benko, and I fully support this offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u163	Thank you. Valery Pavlovich, are you too? That's the same offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u164	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. Yes, I've really missed a few faction leaders, and I'd like to thank them for their support. I think we should give due respect to one of our best football players, coach Valery Vasilovich Lobanowski. At 10 o'clock, don't start, start at 12:30 and go say good-bye at Dynamo Stadium at 10 o'clock. Then work in factions and open meetings at 12.30 p.m. I would like to ask that our proposal, also made by Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, thank him and everyone with whom I have spoken, be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u165	Honorable fellow workers! Matthew. Please. And we'll figure it out now. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u166	The Communist faction. The proposal is indeed correct, and our faction supports it. By the way, we all signed the letter to one faction yesterday, which was here, in the hall, about the assignment of Valery Vasilovich, titled "The Hero of Ukraine." But I think maybe we should consult, we shouldn't do that. We're going to break the Rules. We have to open the morning meeting of the Supreme Council tomorrow at 10 a.m. There is a proposal to open a meeting and then take a break as colleagues suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Listen to me for a minute. I'll make an offer that matches that. Let's not break the Rules, tomorrow morning, open the morning session, give the factions a commission to go to work, they have to work, they'll come together at 10 o'clock to give us further solutions to a question that we haven't solved with you. In the meantime, we're going to announce a break for two hours, up to 12 hours, and from 10 to 12 hours, we're going to be able to say good-bye to Valerie Lobanowski. At that time, faction leaders will make the necessary proposals, and from 12 o’clock we will begin to work according to the Rules. Is that an idea? Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote for this proposal. At 10, we open sessions, and then we announce a recess. Please wait, don't hurry. There were two suggestions. I'm in the process of putting these motions to a vote. It's a wasteland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u168	Thank you very much. I agree with the proposal Adam Ivanovich made, but I would like to remind everyone that the session will open in this case, if we're going to run for office, and then it's going to take another 20 minutes to get to the stadium, and 20 minutes to get back. We won't be there for 12 hours for 30 minutes. So we have to go to the stadium first and start the session at 12 o'clock. And I insist. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u169	Okay. Now we're going to vote on two proposals. What, is there a third? Who? Matvienko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u170	Adam Ivanovich, I think we're just breaking the Rules right now, and it's not worth creating from this ad hoc problem. We will vote tomorrow at 10 a.m. and we will not make any deviations from the Rules. You made the right offer. I think I need to close today's session, and tomorrow at 10 a.m., as agreed, open up, take a break and solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m1.u171	Dear colleagues! They insist on voting, let's vote. There are two suggestions. Dear colleagues, there are two positions in the room, let's figure out, and history will forgive us. I'll bet on the vote that the People's Chamber of the Desert Tenko made to start tomorrow morning's session at 12:30. Anyone for such an offer, please make up your mind. "For" - 210. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we don't need factions. That's not another offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, by the factions. "The One Ukraine" - 131, "Our Ukraine" - 38, communists - 5, Social Democrats - 24, Tymoshenko - 0, socialists - 6, non-fractional - 6. Dear colleagues! We are not voting on another proposal because it is in line with the Rules, but tomorrow, by opening the morning session, we will do everything as agreed today. This evening’s session is closed. Thank you.
