ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please, dear colleagues, take up jobs and prepare for registration. Please register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:25]] Registered -409 There are 409 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. The factions, yes? Get the factions, please. Dear National Deputies! Today is a holiday, so let me welcome you to the day of Santa Claus, your children and your loved ones. Yeah, and Brezhnev's birthday. Dear National Deputies! We agreed yesterday on how we are organizing the work regime today, but before that, the Prime Minister of Ukraine is asking for it. Please, Victor Fedorovich. Well, let the Prime Minister say he's entitled.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-19-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! I wanted to ask you very much. I realize that passions are burning here, but at the same time, I am convinced that we have to make a deal. And we, the government, very much want to come to you with such a request. Today is our last day on the FatF decision, the last day, because tomorrow is December 20. And if the FatF decision is taken and sanctions are imposed in Ukraine, the country will lose a lot in 2003 as a whole. This is one request that you consider and make a decision, and some amendments to the law that has already been passed must be made. This is the first request. Second request. I believe that the government could participate in those negotiations that will now take place among the factions, and the government believes that working together with the Supreme Council and shared responsibility before the state will always be the basis for us to work on and negotiate. A very important question for us is the budget. We had the opportunity to communicate yesterday, and I was grateful for your understanding, but we have a week to accept the 2003 budget. It's a very important question that we have to solve together. Budget is out, budget is out. Late last night, we found an understanding with the Committee on Budgets, and we almost have no further questions. But I understand that the decision will be made by the Supreme Council, the deputies will be made. So the big request -- to consider, first of all, this is the FATF bill, it's very important, it's very political and economical for Ukraine. The second is to consider laws that will allow you to fill the income part of the budget. And the third is to start looking at the 2003 budget as we agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-19-m0.u3	Yes, what will be the proposals, distinguished national MPs? He wants to say hello. [[B in m in s a l in]] A duck. Well, Catchure wants to say hello, I promised him. Cachure, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-19-m0.u4	Dear national MPs, our constituents! Today, indeed, the glorious Santa Claus, and I would like to welcome all our citizens with this beautiful holiday. It is beautiful because it is customary to give gifts on this day. Unfortunately, the majority's deputy act as an antimycola because they canceled the second reading of the State Budget, which means that they cancelled the 1st January salary increase for teachers, which they cancelled on January 1st of the increase in wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-19-m0.u5	Yes, I'm asking you to turn off the microphone. Honorable national deputies, according to the agreement. According to the faction manager's arrangement, I'm calling a break until 12:30. At 10:30 p.m., all factions, please assemble in the Head's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-19-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to inform you now about the outcome of the negotiations. We're kind of in between, we're out there, we're out there. And the faction manager's proposal is to continue your work at 4:00, so they can still work there. Therefore, let the morning meeting of the Supreme Council be closed. And we'll continue our work at the 16th meeting tonight. And those who have signed up are happy with what they've signed up for.
