ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Please. 388. People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:22]] It's registered to -390. There are 390 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the fundamentals of Ukraine's internal and external policies. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Udovenko Hennady Josipovich, is invited to report. Please, Hennady Josephovich, you have 10 minutes. Oh, okay, 391. It's 395.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! During the preliminary discussion of the bills that have been tabled today, colleague Zvaric pointed out that according to article 85 and part of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council determines the principles of Ukraine's external relations and is doing so through the adoption of the law. Internal relations are found in article 85, but not in article 92. That is, internal policy is determined by the Supreme Council, but not only by the adoption of the law, or by the adoption of the law, which may in itself be the basis for objections to the laws of Simonenka, Pavlovsky, Belarus and Frost. Internal politics is shaped by the views of the parties and the policies of these parties, chosen by the people, for these views of the Supreme Council by the adoption of specific laws. But at the same time, you can deny what I said, because in fact foreign policy is a continuation of internal politics. It's a famous Lenin thesis that's hard to argue with. And that, for example, is evidence of today’s situation with the foreign policy of our state, which has exhausted itself. In fact, the resources of today’s foreign policy are exhausted because we have claims, not about foreign policy, but about the internal situation in our country. These are all the scandals we have, the rings, the killing of Gongadze. Today, quite rightly, one of the colleagues has raised the issue of indemnity, and we do not know how Viacheslav Cnerovil died. And this question is not proven, the investigation is not finished, because then the verdict is that it's just a road accident and so on. So today, in order for our foreign policy to be effective, we need radical changes in the internal politics of our nation. But at the same time and in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, I passed my bill on the principles of foreign policy and the international relations of Ukraine. It should also be noted that until this time, the principles of foreign policy in Ukraine are determined, not by law, but by a decree adopted in 1993 and in accordance with that decree, and we provide for the foreign policy of our country. The bill, which I propose, consists of five chapters that contain the relevant basic principles of foreign policy, its task of ensuring Ukraine's national interests, its mission in the regions and its relations with international organizations, the mechanisms for implementing foreign policy and its final positions. The main provisions of the bill are the rule of law, the openness of foreign policy, the development of relations with other states on the basis of the principles of volunteering, mutual respect, equality, mutual benefit and non-interference in internal affairs, the continued observance of Ukraine's national interests, and not least respect for human rights. The main idea of the bill is the European and transatlantic choices of Ukraine. This is a priority for the foreign policy strategy as set out in the Basic Principles section. I would like to point out that there is a need to put an end to the negative policy of multilingualism for the international image of Ukraine. And the main vector that needs to remain should lead us to where we will rise to new stages of democracy and market economic transformation, that is to say Europe. The draft law contains many important provisions that will make Ukraine stronger and more confident and at the same time ensure its democratic progress. In doing so, we can see the relevance of these positions on concrete examples that we all have before our eyes right now, and they all come up with specific problems of the internal situation in Ukraine. For example, Ukraine considers itself to be an equal successor to the Soviet Union and does not recognize any advantages or exceptions to any of the republics of the former Soviet Union. We all know what the situation is because of the U.S.S.R.'s foreign property. We've already spent several budgets on social issues in exchange for what we actually owned and what we've given up because of our own insolence. Next. The principle of openness of foreign policy will help to avoid the situation that has arisen with the formation of a Ukrainian-Russian consortium for the administration of Ukraine's gas transport system, when for months the public and the people supported by the elections cannot obtain answers from the executive power to the questions about the conditions of this gas consortium. To translate this question into a plane of public discussion. Such problems are avoided by ensuring that Ukraine’s national interests are ensured. The bill also sets out the need for demarcation of Ukraine’s borders according to world standards. This will help stop the flow of illegal migration, which has long been a real disaster for Ukraine. Next. The failure to accept any territorial claims will help the Ukrainian foreign policy to avoid the situation that has now taken place with Romania. Our indecisiveness on this issue continues to make Ukraine's image worse, why it is necessary to prevent a clear fixation of the position of the Ukrainian State. Finally, one of the points that I would like to draw your particular attention to is the point that in today's conditions of respect for human rights and freedoms is not just an internal matter of individual states. In Ukraine, there is now a violation of basic human rights and freedoms not only by law enforcement structures but also by the authorities as a whole. One example may be the recent parliamentary elections or the bureaucratic walls that our citizens find in the authorities daily. Yes, we must take sufficient time to overcome these problems within us, but we need help from the outside world. A legislative basis is needed to be able to take both criticism and help seriously and to act accordingly. The very definition of the principles of foreign policy does not, in principle, correspond to the experience of countries with developed democracy. It's either the outside policy or the internal government. However, developed democracy means at the same time that the government is formed by the political forces that have received the greatest support from the electorate. As you know, in Ukraine this law of democracy is still being ignored and the Supreme Council is still composed of representatives of the people almost removed from the possibility of actually influencing the political situation in the country. When she tries to do so, she is referred to as her legal work. Yes, that's her job, but when the political situation in the country is that laws aren't being implemented, such a reminder -- sit back and adopt laws -- is the strategy of preserving the status quo. By adopting the law that I have proposed right now and by working in detail on its position, we will set a standard to be followed by the executive authorities and for which they may be held accountable. So let's think about at least the same gas consortium. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, the question to Gennady Josephovich is there? Please sign in. Five minutes. Please point it on the board. Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Gennady Josephovich, I want to ask you this question as former Foreign Minister. You have just noted that in article 85 of the Constitution, the Supreme Council is also a definition of Ukraine’s foreign policy. Instead, in article 92, the legislator did not write the principle of foreign policy but wrote the principles of external relations. So in order to determine what this bill should be, I would like to ask you this question as a professional. Is external relations and foreign politics the same? And if not, the law that we should adopt should only apply to the sphere of external relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u5	Well, there's basically a conflict between practice and what's written in the Constitution. But external politics, international relations and relationships -- it basically reflects the same thesis. External policy is a strategy, an international relationship is the implementation or implementation of this strategy. And in the process of working on the bill, we can really take account of the fact that the title corresponds to article 92 of the Ukrainian law on the principles of Ukraine's external relations. This will not be understood by others, but we will understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u6	National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u7	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mr. Hennadia, I'm a mechanics professor with five points, you've given a very correct definition of the main vector. The main vector is the sum of the vectors, the vector sum, and so the notion of "prime vector" exists only when there is a multi-sector system. When there's no vector, there's no concept of a main vector. So thank you, you've very clearly defined all of this. Do You Agree With Yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u8	If a vector doesn't mean flugger, and if our policy doesn't fluctuate like a flugger, then with your mathematical, mechanical approach, in principle, you can agree, because today we need to conquer the East, and that's what this shows, and experience in Pakistan shows that we can do that. Our relationship with China also shows that they have reached a rather high level. Relations are now developing with Malaysia, other countries in the region, but that's not what I would call a vector of foreign policy, that's the direction of Ukraine's foreign policy. One of the directions of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u9	National Deputy Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u10	People's Deputy Bulba, Socialist faction. Dear reporter, please tell me, when Leonid Danilovich Kuchma was still prime minister, he asked the Supreme Council: What do you need to build? What do you think if such a bill -- the principles of internal and external politics -- were adopted then, what would be the result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u11	By diverting from this bill, which I propose, we must, each state must have its own ideology. This is the National Movement of Ukraine, which I am the leader of, is an ideologie of the Ukrainian national idea. It's not a nationalist ideology, which is a Ukrainian national idea -- it's a declaration of independence, it's a national language, it's a state border, it's a transformation of Ukraine into a democratically developed state with a market economy and social orientation. This is a Ukrainian national idea. But in our years of independence, we haven't defined what kind of state we're building, today we've made this decision, tomorrow we're going to do something else, and we're going to do things in blocks, bricks, we're going to build our state without ideology. For example, yesterday there was an International Conference in Kiev, which was a Russian - speaking conference, even before. This is how life works if we had a clear strategy, but then we couldn't adopt a country's development strategy that would correspond to the political forces in our country. That was not the composition of Parliament. Parliament is now more focused on strengthening the Ukrainian independent state. And now we can find some common approaches. But when we find a common approach, we're going to join NATO and we're not going to join NATO. Today we have heard from this rostrum that we cannot join NATO, and in my law I propose that we join NATO and become a full member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u13	But to the opponents of Ukraine's accession to NATO, I will say, I would not like to say this, do not be afraid to be admitted to NATO.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u14	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u15	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Gennady Josephovich, frankly, has given so much attention since 10 minutes to the internal political problems that are certainly present in Ukraine, that I may not have understood everything from your bill on foreign policy. So I have these questions: I haven't really noticed, frankly, the issues raised in the bill that would apply to Ukraine's regional policy. Don't you agree that we talk very often about geopolitics, things like that, forgetting and not appreciating our place in the world. We could really be regional leaders, in principle, and there's the US, there's Russia, there's Japan, and there's Japan, and there's gotta be geopolitical superpowers. First. Secondly, I think it is necessary to introduce into the bill a chapter that relates to the international fight against terrorism, based on all the reasons we know. And the third moment. Gennady Josephovich, you often repeat yourself quite often, let's say, simply duplicate the bill of the Constitution of Ukraine, whose standards are known to be direct in accordance with article 8. Do you not think that it could be ruled out? In general, I believe that your bill, along with Silent, is consistent, could support the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u16	Thank you for asking. I have a special chapter, chapter three: the main tasks of foreign policy in individual regions of the world and participation in the activities of international organizations. There is quite a lot of talk about our desire to establish a broad political, economic, cultural, scientific, humanitarian relationship with Central, North-East and South-East Europe. I mean, we. The bill divides this region into sub-regions. Then we, Ukraine, will actively develop our relations with the countries of Asia and the Pacific, Africa and Latin America. In principle, I know Ukraine's place in my bill. And Ukraine can be an influential state in solving our internal problems, so I pay attention and stop doing so much in my speech. Ukraine will be an influential regional state. Today we talk about what we can become a superstate, which would be totally unnatural, out of place. And these positions, they're fixed right there. As for the articles of the Constitution, the direct action of the articles of the Constitution, I accept your remark, it will be taken into account in the work. It's only the first reading. And many positions need to be taken into account. And really, I didn't say it to him, but he's got a lot more articles, over 60, I've got 40. And we can work to pass on the second reading already one law on the principles of Ukraine’s foreign policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u17	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich. Time's up. Dear colleagues, our fellow national deputy, Billorus, insists on giving him three minutes to present his extra bill on the basic principles of foreign policy. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I will report on the bill on the principles of Ukraine's foreign policy, document 1269-2. This document competes with the Hennadia Josipovich bill. And there's no colleague of the silent, there's no colleague of the silent. I've reported and I'm not going to report you in detail, but I want to point out what the originality of this document is. Unlike my colleagues who wrote down the principles of foreign policy and foreign political relations in an article of the law, I refused to do so. And the law itself consists of the 3rd articles of the organizational plan. As for the principles of foreign policy, they go in the textual formula in the appendix. There are 49 points. That's one thing. The other one. I think that external political, external economic relations like this are totally the prerogative of executive power. And they can't be the subject of the Supreme Council. We can only talk about the principles of foreign policy and foreign policy. This really refers to the prerogative of the Supreme Council. They were talking about the hierarchy. After all, once again, we have to start with a national strategy based on national interests, then we have an external policy strategy, then we have an external policy, and then we have an external relationship. Again, it's about the debate on multi-sectorality. Theor. Mechanics won't help us. The main vector is the rod, and multiverse is chaos. Colleagues spoke about the possible leading role of Ukraine. There's a possibility. Ukraine can become a leader in Eastern Europe. And this is her high mission. She can't claim other roles right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u19	Thank you. The committee’s head is invited to participate in foreign affairs, Tobacco Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, this was the clarification of Oleg Grigorovich Belarus concerning his bill, and before that he reported three of his bills. So there's no need to ask a reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I have a difficult task of trying to inform you of the Committee's position in foreign affairs with regard to eight legislative acts and bills, all of which are copyrighted. First of all, I would like to say that perhaps no question in the Supreme Council has raised as much attention as the definition of the legislative basis of internal and external politics. I think it will be absolutely appropriate and necessary to thank all the drafters for their legislative exercises, for their desire to cover one of the most important chapters of our current legislation. I would like to remind you once again that the basic principles of foreign policy have been explained in one way or another and there is a proposal for regulation in the bills that have been drafted: the Ukrainian National Deputy Peter Simonenko, the Ukrainian National Deputy Oleg Belarus, the National Deputy Vladimir Sivacuk, the National Deputy Mikhailo Pavlovski, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hennaday Udovenko, and the National Deputy of Ukraine, Paul Movchan. The laws that have been introduced to your consideration, of course, have a clear and even, I think, unfortunately, too much of an ideological color. They are very diverse on their nets. And you all understand, reaching consensus in Parliament on the adoption of one of these proposed eight legislative acts will be extremely difficult. So I would like to focus more on the consideration of three draft laws on fundamental principles of foreign policy and external relations in Ukraine. The double title, I think, came from the authors precisely because there is a double interpretation in the various articles of the Constitution. One article defines the Supreme Council as defining the basic principles of foreign policy, and another article on external relations continues. I didn't start to appreciate, let's say, all these bills, even though we held two Committee meetings in foreign affairs, tried to look closely at all the bills that were submitted. What I'd like to say. I don't think it'll hurt any of the authors. Virtually all projects contain too many insinuating, not normative provisions, which make them weak, like acts of direct action. And in our view, these finding positions, the repetition of the provisions of the Constitution is not inherent to legal acts. I don't want to touch, let's say they're incomprehensible from a legal point of view, but there are expressions, let's say that bills define principles, that's basic principles, that's the basis of politics, and that they're the legal basis for the international activities of political, social organizations, of individuals and of legal persons who are known not to be engaged in public foreign policy. There are also some non-legislative legal formulas. In particular, the introductory part of the law proposed by the Ukrainian national deputy, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, quoted in the introduction, states that "the basics of Ukraine's international strategy are the requirements of sacred law to protect its own national interests." In paragraph 42 of the same project, we're talking about strong foreign policy. I mean, I think some formulas need a lot of clarification. We also use the term "international monetary policy," which is not, let's say, acceptable enough in legal acts. Dear colleagues! In addition, the two bills submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Mobcan and the Udovenko People's Deputy contain a rule regarding the non-existence of military bases of other states in Ukraine. Thus, an international agreement, in particular ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament on the possibility of further existence, is challenged, and the treaty defines a term of 20 years, the Russian Federation's military base on the Black Sea in Ukraine. I think it's also important that you pay attention to that, too, to your respectable colleagues. That is, the adoption of this bill may entail the need to break the relevant international treaty ratified by the Supreme Council. I'm not trying to appreciate it right now. I'm just saying that the first reading of the National Deputies' Project or the Silencen, or the Widow's, will entail the need to break the international treaty. In my opinion, these two bills provide for a clear legislative consolidation of Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic choice. That is, the project builds on Ukraine's intentions to work almost exclusively with the European Union and NATO and effectively denies strategic partnership with the Russian Federation and other states that do not join the European Union or NATO. This position on the orientation of Ukraine's foreign policy with regard to its economic interests, I think, seems somewhat one-sided. It may be possible to foresee the development of Ukraine’s foreign policy on the basis of its equal attitude and the development of good-neighbourly relations both with the European Union and with other states, including the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, I don't want to take up much of your time, I want to say once again that to approve, even in the first reading, one of the eight bills proposed on this issue is extremely difficult and almost doomed to defeat, so I would like to introduce you to the decision proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs after reviewing these bills. The Committee at its meeting on 25 September 2002, having considered drafts of the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for Foreign Policy and External Relations of Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Ukrainian National Deputy Udovenko and the Ukrainian National Deputy Belarus, adopted the following: consideration of these draft laws at the session. Earlier considered in the first reading of drafts of the Ukrainian Law on the Definition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Principles of Internal and Foreign Policy, the author of the National MP Moroz, registration number 1249, the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of Internal and Foreign Policy of Ukraine, the author of the National Deputy of Belarus, registration number 1040/1, the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of Internal and Foreign Policy, the author of the National Deputy of Pavlovsky, registration number 1040/3 and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation on the Principles of Internal and Foreign Policy, according to the authors of the National Deputy of Spiwiachuk, Moroz, Winski, to re-read the first reading. Support the draft decision before you on the creation of an interim special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in preparation, preliminary review and harmonization of these bills, headed by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, after consulting the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after studying foreign experience, and once again, having received legal interpretation from our lawyers at the Supreme Council of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Legal Committee of Foreign Affairs proposes to develop two separate draft laws under the Constitution of Ukraine. One would apply to the principles of Ukraine's internal policy and the other would apply to defining the principles of foreign policy, which we believe will move us towards achieving this goal. We also decided on a committee unanimously in the presence of representatives of almost all political factions to support the draft decree establishing a temporary committee for the harmonization and further development of all draft laws, the author of which is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Osika, registration number 10-40/P. The committee also approved proposing to the authors of the laws to develop the two above - mentioned separate draft laws, to develop and enact a law on the principles of national strategy and national interests. The decision was made unanimously. I would urge the Committee on Foreign Affairs of all authors to accept this proposal, because I think it's the only thing that will enable us to move forward productively and to preserve those interesting copyrights that are certainly contained in each of the above eight bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u21	Thank you, Dmitri Volodyrovich. We agreed that there would be no question co-reporters. Dear colleagues! We agreed, you agreed, you should say that you have another position. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. Out of procedure, please. National MP Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u22	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to perhaps such and accidental, perhaps accidental, but still shushing. I, for example, signed up for law 1183, the bill on the principles of Ukraine’s national interests. Since all of this was then thrown down, so to speak, into one cauldron, I am now looking at a list of people who have to come forward to discuss these issues, my last name is not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u23	Dear Volodymyr Alexandrovich, your last name is. Maybe we're looking at different lists. There's no shooping here, and you and I have agreed that we would be more logical, because we need to make a law on the basic principles of internal and external politics, so that we can discuss each bill after we present it. We agreed, and there is twice the recorded national deputy of Yavorowski, after the presentation of 1183, the document, and 1269. Dear colleagues, how much time will we take to discuss this matter? Half an hour is enough? We made a deal, dear colleagues, me. Wait a minute! When we started discussing the matter and talked about the procedure for dealing with the matter, it was a matter of 15 minutes. Now we're going to suggest that, given what's going to happen, we're going to take half an hour. Is there no objection? We're discussing everything, all the bills. Dear colleagues, how much time do we need? Well, please. 45 minutes, we've got 15 speakers. Dear colleagues, we've got 15 people in three minutes. 45 minutes enough? Thank you. All right, 45 minutes. Please turn on the board. Paper 1040, and then we'll go in turn, and everyone who's signed up will perform 15 people. Rudzkowski, procedure, please. And you're written down, you're written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u24	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I insisted on questions to the committee head, I mean Smoker Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Why? Because there's a lot of bills, there's different bills, there's a lot of legislation, there's a lot of legislation, there's a lot of legislation, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it's a committee that's a profile, and when we make decisions on economic laws, we're Here is the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And I'd like to ask the head of the committee a question as a matter of principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleague, we had to approach, be in the session room when we discussed the procedure for dealing with the matter. We agreed that we would not ask our coreporters questions. Now, please go to the National MP, head of the committee, and ask him a question. Let's move on to the discussion. The word has the national MP Mironenko, a faction of Communists, to prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u26	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko. Respectable colleagues would seem to all to have already made it clear that the 11-year state course has shown its harmfulness, bringing about a huge decline in the economy, the living level of the people. However, the bill of Udovenko and Movcana, representatives of Viktor Yushchenko's “Our Ukraine” bloc, is unfortunately practically aimed at continuing the current course with minor changes. Yes, this course is in the interest of the United States, in line with the interests of the resuscitated class of capitalists. But it is time for us to remember the interests of the people. Dear colleagues, noting the positive aspects of the Pavlovsky, Bilorussia and the very progressive bill of socialists, consider the most comprehensive, system-wide draft of Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko. The foundations of domestic and foreign policy enshrined in the bill have already been duly confirmed, a positive reaffirmation in China and Western Europe, to which we so often refer. I call for support for this bill for the following reasons. First, the project clearly takes into account the interdependence between domestic and foreign policy. Secondly, it takes into account the main causes of the crisis, taking into account the harmfulness of its 11-year internal and foreign policies. The essence of this policy is the pro-Western pro-American, anti-Russia, capitalist focus on social and inter-national diversity, the great gain of a narrow population by robbing people by means of universal privatization, even in strategic sectors of the economy. The draft law, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenk, calls for an end to the privatization, tax, banking indemnity of government regulations and market mechanisms, in support of the national producer of goods and services. This law ensures the restoration of comprehensive, beneficial ties with Ukraine with Russia while continuing to integrate into the world economy. The Act also provides for the possibility of the restoration of free education, health care, the right of everyone to work, rest and housing through the rerouting of cash flows. People's property has now been privatized, and money is going into the pockets of the oligarchs, the capitalists, but not the people. If we are the people's deputies of Ukraine, it is time for us to change the state course, to provide a public course for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u27	The word has the national parliament of the Hare. Prepare Solomon. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u28	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Movement, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing matters with a five - year - old beard. And I'm sorry we're gonna spend more time today. The mountain gives birth to a mouse again. To my profound conviction, Ukraine does not need one law on the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies. First of all, it's not possible to make such a law in practice because of the extreme latitude, the extent of social relations that the authors of these bills want to regulate. Most authors want to regulate a lot of relationships that can't even be covered by the entire legal system. Therefore, the language of the authors of these bills is illegal, illegal. Rather, it's pre-election platforms with clear party coloring, especially with regard to the Singerman I.K. Bill. The other one. The Constitution does not guide, as the drafters say, the adoption of a single law on the principles of domestic and foreign policy. On the contrary, article 92 of the Constitution defines a specific set of principles that must be defined by individual laws. So, honourable national MPs, I want to draw your attention to just one question, to the status of this law. What legal power do the authors of these bills want to give, and what are their motives? In fact, all authors have given this law more legal power than the ordinary law, almost as much as the Constitution, and in some cases even more. For example, the Alexander Moroz and K. project, the Simonnka project, tells other authors that the principles are required to be taken into account when developing the concept of relevant laws, state economic development programs, the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Budget of Ukraine in the drafting and ratification of international treaties. The Spivacuk project even reads this: The principles do not contain regulations and cannot be considered before the Constitutional Court. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. Already a freshman in law school knows that any law can't go beyond the Constitution. It's an axiom. What are some of the situations that we face in the bills? And those that go beyond the Constitution. Let me give you just two examples. A project called Moroza and K. proposes to grant Russian the status of official, or second, state authority throughout Ukraine. This thesis directly contradicts article 10 of the Constitution, which gives the status of the national language only to Ukrainian. The Simonnka project contains a thesis that denies private property on earth that is contrary to article 14 of the Constitution. And how Vladimir Mikhailovich understands the purpose of this law. It's very simple. During the discussion of the Presidential Constitutional Initiatives, he then stated that the limits of these constitutional changes should be defined in the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. Therefore, it is so simplified, honourable deputies, that we cannot approach this issue. Stanislaw Gurenko left us an offer to take the rules through the adoption of the decrees. I'm done. This is not what article 92 of the Constitution allows. So I have to conclude that all of these initiatives aimed at reviewing the Constitution are about creating legal colleges. But what's the point of all these laws when we're talking about constitutional change? Five-year-old stuff is out of date. That's why I propose to reject all these bills and adopt them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u30	individual laws share principles in each sphere, as required by article 92 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u31	Ivan Aleksandrovich, don't cool us down. We need an internal and external policy law on basic principles. Don't cool us down. The national deputy Solomon has a word for it. Prepare Hinzburg. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u32	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We are considering a bill that affects not only economic and social relations in society and in the state. And because I think it's very strange that it's not entirely fruitful, it may not have worked on this bill properly by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. At least in the performances. Some documents suggest that we should consider our cultural and spiritual acquisitions when creating such bills. The principles of domestic and foreign policy primarily concern domestic policy and property relations. Power systems as the basis for economic and social development of society and the state. External politics affects relations with the world above all in the light of the solution of internal politics, that is, strengthening the state and improving the well - being of its citizens. These tasks are possible only if we consider the thousands of years of historical tradition of the Eastern Orthodox world, the preservation of the common gains of the nations that belong to it. This is primarily the nature of the world’s vision, the content of which can be narrowly defined as one for all and all for one another. When a nation’s concern for man must be dominant. But we're in the sense of being part of the world community and European integration, and they're offering some kind of civilisational betrayal. Collaborationist action is the transition to a different nature of people's relationships, when everyone for themselves, one God for all. We are offered an Eastern Orthodox identity, gradually changing the de facto to European Catholic and Protestant. Did we, honourable national deputies, understand this fundamental, fundamental distinction? And I want to give you one example. Consider the literary historical episode with old Cossack Colonel Taras Bulbo and his two sons, Andrew and Taras. Taras remained faithful to the holy faith of his father's Orthodox faith, remained faithful to the Cossack Society, and Andrew was also a Eurointegrator, went to Europe, and what old Taras had done with him, we know with you. So let's do everything we can to make sure that the people of Ukraine and their Euro-Integrators don't do what old Cossack Colonel Taras Bulba did. So I think we have every reason to support Bill No. 1040, Peter Simonnka, who is most pleased with the preservation of our Orthodox, Eastern-Slovak identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u33	Thank you. National Deputy Hinzburg, prepare for Reznik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u34	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. I'm coming out of this rostrum and it's very important for me today to understand what we're deciding with you today, and this is our way, each of us, the road, every area, the road of our country. And the way we're going to adopt the law will depend on where we're going, the way we're going, the way we're going, and the way we're going to go. I want to say that I will speak from the Communist Party's point of view, because I am supporting today the law that Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko has proposed, and from my point of view, because I belong to the Communist Party today, and so I see today the solution to this question. I love my country very much, I love it very much. I loved the Soviet Union, where I lived, because I was raised like that, and I love my Ukraine today, but I still want to be proud of it, I just want to be proud and do everything I can to make it happen. But as I considered this law, I found this approach. I opened the Constitution and looked at it, written "General Principles," chapter one. And the most important to me was the point, which? Human rights and freedoms and their guarantees determine the meaning and orientation of the State. The state is responsible to man for its activities, for the establishment and security of human rights and freedoms, which is the main purpose of our nation. That's what I'm looking at today, because as citizens live in our country today, it's dependent today or not, it's ensured that it's not secured. And I say to myself that in this law it should be this way:." The responsibility of a worker, a peasant, a student, a representative of intelligence, a woman to fight for her economic, political, and social needs. This is also a duty of the State. And the law should clearly lay down the responsibility of every nation, including the nation that unites that nation to show solidarity with all those in need at the end of the earth. I also considered article 9, which should be contracts. And can the State conclude these agreements if they conflict with the Constitution. The earth is a major national asset today, and how it is used, and how the principles will tell us how to use it today. No ideology can be recognized by the State as mandatory and what we have. And in closing, because there's so much I want to say, I've come to understand simple things for myself. I would like to put it this way, as I go through the internal personality policy, I'm going to say that Emilian Nikonovich Parubek is a person of a socialist country who, at the age of the tractor brigade, grew 500 centrifuges out of 1 hectare. For this, the country rewarded him with two stars of the Hero of Social Work. It was an internal policy approach when a person had respect for the work. I want to say foreign policy today and in the image today of our poet Boris Oliynik, who, when in Yugoslavia was bombed and dropped on the heads of the entire country of the bomb, Boris Illich stood on this bridge and protected those citizens, and he was with them. This is the approach of such foreign policy. I just want to say one more thing, but who's going to follow this law? After all, it is not so difficult to make up a law and adopt it, but who will do it, and what political powers? It's probably what most people will take on. It must be understood that only a patriot and only a national hero who leads the country today can lead the country, can follow, can carry out the external principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when are we going to vote in favour of the draft decree on thermal security, when are we going to vote for it? Tomorrow morning. Well, that's me. Then I would like to vote today. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask everyone to come to the session room so that you can vote on the rulings. Please take all your seats. And while you're taking your place, you'll be invited to the floor by the National Deputy Resnick. Please, is there a National Deputy Resnick? You don't? David’s. None. Roman Zvaric, please. Prepare Feldman. I'm asking everyone to come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I am acting on the commission of the committee to which I belong, this is the Committee on European Integration, which, under the authority of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has reviewed these bills and has made decisions on drafts, the four bills that go under registration number 1040 and the bill of the national deputy of Belarus under registration number 1183 - to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject these bills from two substantive, fundamental considerations. One thought I would call constitutional procedural, and the other one refers to the substance of these bills. As to the constitutionality of these bills, I point out to you that the authors of these bills are absolutely correct. your attention, Your Honor, is drawn to the fact that in article 85(5) of the Constitution of Ukraine among the powers vested in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the definition of the principles of Ukraine's foreign and domestic policy. Instead, another article of the Constitution defines how we should exercise our powers and only 92 articles of the Constitution defines the spheres of legislative regulation and especially there are different points, I will not all, of course, list them here, but among those points in the first part of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine there is no separate point on Ukraine's internal policy. Thus, we conclude that it is not necessarily necessary for laws to determine Ukraine’s internal policy, since the legislator, after determining that this is the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 85 articles when he wrote 92 articles, deliberately removed that provision from article 92. Therefore, the honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, the committee does not agree with your position that such a law on Ukraine's internal and external policies is necessary. Now essentially. With respect to Simonck and Frost's projects. I'm not going to analyze them in general and in depth, I just want to pay attention to your esteemed colleagues, that these laws practically propose to destroy even the growths of the market economy that we have today in our country. With regard to Belarus and Pavlovsky’s projects, they are actually proposing to create a rigid protectionist regime. In any case, with the approval of any of these bills, the Euro-Integration Course of our State will be questioned, which, by the way, the People's Deputy Solomonin has already spoken openly. And so it can be thought that further our membership, or in the World Trade Organization and later in the European Union, will be absolutely impossible. The committee therefore recommends that all five bills be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Here's a proposal for us to vote on the draft ruling today, and I'm sorry to interrupt the consideration of this issue, but considering the urgency and your proposal. A draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on measures to ensure the warmth of housing, education, health, culture, and other social facilities that are burned by centralized heating networks. We've already voted on it as a basis, and I remind you, we've worked on your proposals. And I'm putting the whole draft of this ruling to a vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:02:27]] For 295 For 295, the decision is made. Well, we can if we want to! Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy Feldman. Is there a Feldman? You don't? Please, Desert Tenko Valery Pavlovich. And it was Zarubinsky who passed on his word just as he came up that he asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u38	The faction of the People's Democratic Party. It's a wasteland. Honorable members of the Presidency, distinguished colleagues. The problem of developing and adopting legislation that defines a further strategy for the development of the state, its economy, its social relations, its foreign policy orientations is extremely important. And that's not an exaggeration. The absence of laws that reveal the content of article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution causes constant political debate among the various forces on internal and foreign policy orientations, making it difficult for the government to work. This law will allow for the elimination of the clan’s corporate influence on politics and the legislative process. Regrettably, previous attempts to develop and adopt a bill on the basic principles of internal and external politics have been a victim of political struggle and misunderstanding in the branches of government. Now we have a real opportunity not only to reach consensus on the content of this constitutional law, but also to endorse it by an absolute majority. A few thesis on the format and content of the bill. First. The Law on Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy should be objectively framed and only strategic towards the implementation of public policy in various spheres of social life. Accordingly, this law should include positions on the development of individual national, state-owned programs, separate laws that would allow a defined direction to be implemented, indicate the instrumenter and deadlines for achieving the objectives set. Accordingly, this law also provides the basis for the production of government action programmes and annual social development programmes, other national development programmes. It's different. The law should reflect the following mature problems related to the strategy for the development of statehood and the formation of civil society, the reform of the political system, which can take place only through constitutional reform, administrative reform and the strategy for the development of local self - government, judicial reform, the strategic orientations of national regional policy, the strategic direction of economic and industrial, social, housing, legal, humanitarian policy, and so on. Policy principles for national security. The definition of an external political strategy for the geopolitical parities of our Ukraine. Third. Taking into account the general form of the law, we propose that in each chapter we limit only the concise meanings that allow for the avoidance of inconsistent interpretations. Let me give you some meaningful examples. Ukraine's foreign policy choice is integration into the European Union on political, economic and social dimensions. The reform of the political system, the transition to the parliamentary form of government, which is the Supreme Council, the supreme legislative body of the representative office, the Cabinet of Ministers as the higher executive authority and the President as the head of state and as the guarantor of the Constitution. This law should also identify components of the new model as a government, such as a governing coalition, opposition, coalition government. Dear colleagues, me. I can't spend three minutes, I can't navigate. Allow me another 30 seconds. Four. Just by developing and adopting a law on the basic principles of internal and external politics, we have a real opportunity to make irreversible reform of the political system and a kind of discussion go into action. But the fundamental significance is the problem of the mechanism for drafting new constitutional changes that are mature, whether these changes will be made only in political spheres, or whether they will become part of the civil public discussion process. I am convinced that in this very room we should find a reflection of a defined constitutional assembly and regulation of work in cases defined by this law. Thank you for your attention and for your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u39	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. National MP Bespali Boris Jakovic, "Our Ukraine". Get ready for Yavorowski. Do you refuse? Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. Prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u40	Honourable Legislators of Ukraine! Dear voters who may be listening to us now! You know, there's something sad or even tragic about the fact that we're in our second decade of independence and we're discussing the question: How to go to Ukraine, where to go, what our foreign policy should be, what our internal policy should be?" I have such a retro sense that we're about in 1991, 1992, and the naive Prime Minister Leonid Danilovich Kuchma naively asks us, "Brothers, tell us what to build, whether it's a toilet or a temple, and I'm ready to take up my duties at the same time?" Something similar, of course, in this situation where the state should have defined these basic principles long ago, define them as framework documents, and legislation should only act in this direction. What we've done, my dears, let's think as legislators, what we've done over the past 10 years. In this case, I'm reviewing the Ukrainian National Interests Act. It's the root law. For every nation, for every nation. We're just looking at it right now. What, then, has been done in Ukraine’s interests for the past 10 years? Our practically sea fleet has been completely destroyed, almost all our economy and the heavy industry have been destroyed. Instead, it's kind of a Ukrainian army, but it's one of the scariest armies in the world. We didn't think about it. It's a super-army, it's scared like fire, because it shoots in one direction, and it goes in the other direction. Who else can determine this tactic in the world? We're afraid of fire. I think an army like that should be kept, then we'll be a very powerful country in that direction. Look what we've come up with today with freedom of speech. We're almost zero again that society is now devoid of that information. Where am I going with this? I lead you, my dears, to what. That's not what we're arguing about. Obviously, it's not that these laws were laid down today as pears from heaven, and the communists immediately proposed their law, and the motorists, and the socialists, all of them. I think it's a feeling if you want the danger of the country. Because of this, we rushed today to take a course, because we've already given up our oil and gas pipe, we'll give it all away soon, and there'll be nothing left, and then we won't have to take anything at all. That's why I think we obviously need to do this kind of tricking if we're going to leave all these bills behind. None of them will pass. I think we need to find some very normal middle ground -- consensus, make one law, adopt it. But I have great doubts. Today, take whatever laws you want, I have no doubt that the authority we have today, which has no political will to preserve the national interests of Ukraine, which you want to give it, it will not do anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u41	Dear colleagues! Well, we don't have to applaud pessimism, we'll do everything. Everything we accept will be done. Please, Lila Grigorovitch. Get ready for Bespalloma. The incorruptible changed his mind, and he did not understand what was going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u42	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine", People's Movement. Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Masterful colleagues! Well, you know, it's been a while since we've had such an interesting subject to see some amplitude not only of intelligence but also of the civil position of the national MPs. You know, I'm terribly glad that I heard my colleague Hinzburg today, and I want to welcome your speech, and, you know, if we're starting to talk about love for Ukraine all in this room, I think it's already good. God forbid it's five minutes before the execution. Dear colleagues, if we are all in love with Ukraine and want to measure at last, determine these national interests and concepts, strategy and tactics of Ukrainian statehood, let us, indeed, do all this with love. And if with love, by not breaking the Constitution, neither article 10 nor an article that points to the equality of all forms of property. At the same time, I want to say that the law of Silence and Widow does not violate the article of the Constitution, because there are transitional positions and obviously not 100 and not 200, not a thousand years will be based on the territory of Ukraine, and that will pass. In the meantime, I would like to urge you not to violate Article 10 of the Constitution of Billers, who are sitting on this side of me, to stop at another such emphasis on the bills that have been tabled. I'd like to say a few words about the bill on principles of national interest. When I read Sir Winston Churchill's words six or seven years ago that there are no eternal friends, no enemies in Britain, and there are only eternal interests, I was impressed by the depth of the British society's development strategy. The British Parliament then passed 300 years. Thank God, 11 years later, and we talked about national interests. But in the courtyard of the 21st century, there are probably some other circumstances that should also be discussed in this bill. If we are talking about the principles of national interests, we should know that national interests are eternal, but interests are variable. There's something else that should be named or included in the definition of the name of this law -- the principles of national priorities and interests. I'm going to allow myself to emphasize what the priorities are. In the presentations, we heard about what we had lost in Ukraine for a decade. Why? In fact, even the President talked about this in his report on the 10th anniversary of independence, why did you lose your decade? I'm reporting. We told so independent Ukraine in 91, but we did not tell the updated authorities. The Czechs, the Poles, they did it, why we didn't do it. Having tons of steel and iron per capita, having beautiful black lands, he was the most important deficit - civil society. So tell me, civil society, it's a public interest or a priority. Priority and we have to write it down." "Strengthening, developing civil society" because otherwise there will be no society that can choose the right authority and entrust it to become a social and political manager in protecting and fulfilling that concept of national interests. Next. European choice is a national priority, is it a national interest? It's a national priority. In view of that, I agree with my colleagues about what would be extremely appropriate if we were literate not only in the context of a scientific theoretical publication in the journal, but rather on the basis of, let's say, without demagogies, without eclectics, we worked out a rhetoric of a law that, not at Winston Churchill's level in the last century, but at this level, pointed to both national interests and national priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u43	Thank you. National MP Bespali Boris Jakovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u44	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! Our discussion today is very useful because the various political powers can clearly, clearly state how they see Ukraine’s future, express their position. From this point of view, the discussion was fruitful, beneficial, and unfortunate if not heard by all our voters. The head of the profile committee said it was very bad that the projects were too ideological. I think it's very bad that we haven't developed a clear, clear, state ideologie in all our years of independence. If one classic of Ukrainian politics asks, what kind of society do we build, not by chance, that the only result is that another classic of the same policy echoes, we have what we have. Not knowing that we are building, of course, that we have what we have. It's pretty obvious. But, dear fellows! That line should be the parliamentary line of the majority that has to be formed as a result of the elections. We have an eclectic electoral system, we don't have and we won't have a permanent majority in Parliament until we have a proportional electoral system, and so none of the ideologies proposed today have a real chance of adoption. From this point of view, I would like to make such a procedural proposal. I mean, honestly, it's, uh, it's the language of our neighbors, but, uh, it's like, "put a horse in one jar and a flabby rope." I find it hard to imagine how a vector directed at SND and a vector directed at Europe will provide some kind of intelligent equinox. I am personally a proponent of European choice, of course. And it doesn't have to be invented here, enough to take the geography textbook for the fifth grade, and it's drawn where Ukraine is. We are Europeans and are destined to integrate into Europe. But I think if we vote like that on Thursday, it'll be great. But if we set up another commission to agree on different committees, nothing will get bigger. As many 0's as you can get, you're left with zero. And that's why I think I'd have logic, and they're joining their colleague's proposal for "Our Ukraine" by John Alexander the Hare, who didn't support the idea of creating a commission to create a comprehensive law that still won't, and voting shows what are the dominant tendencies. And you don't have to have another bureaucratic growth. So once again, in summarizing our commitment to the European choice of Ukraine, I think that we should not get involved in the bi-deological discussions right now, but just on Thursday we should decide by voting and move on to other issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u45	National Deputy Ostrash, prepare for the Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u46	Dear Chief, distinguished fellow national MPs! Without a doubt, our discussion was extremely fruitful. And I would like to point out from both sides, really, the concern for Ukraine's future strategy. It's very good that today's basic idea was that our principles of both internal and foreign politics should be based on a national idea, because it's really our sovereignty, it's our unity, it's the consolidation of the nation, it's really the competitiveness of our nation in international markets, it's Christian values and so on and so forth. So unfortunately, in our society, this notion of nationalism is very often manipulated, and even our constitutional guarantor has declared that it has not justified itself. But I am convinced that it is not possible to manipulate the national idea, especially as our native Ukrainian authorities do, when, in contrast to the opposition's actions, there are meetings of district councils in the East of Ukraine, in fact, where the issue of entry is, let's say, the union of Russia and Belarus, or whether the issue of the state of Russian and other very resonant and conflicting issues is being raised. I would particularly like to isolate the law on Mr. Belarus's national interests, it needs to be supported, it needs to be adopted, it needs to be done in the first reading and usually work on the second reading, because this is really a very relevant issue, especially the question of our gas pipe. Because really our economy is, in terms of musical terms, a trumpet solo with an orchestra, if we cut the pipe, we'll normally get rid of our orchestra. What I'd like to say is that the issue of the Constitution is particularly acute here, but we will be conducting political reform and changing the powers of both the President and the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers in the field of foreign policy. Now we see that the President has very large powers, and there is no authority, practically the President's Administration has taken over the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers in the field of foreign policy. So I think in time we'll hand over some of the credentials to the Cabinet of Ministers. I would also like to say separately about the strategic partnership. Unfortunately, we have not clearly defined this concept, we have more than 20 strategic partners. The President has gone, for example, and India has become a strategic partner, but at the same time we have a serious problem with our real partners: Russia, the United States, the European Union, and we see it every day. Finally, I would like to say that it is very important to address the issue of the succession of Ukraine after the collapse of the Soviet Union. This must be fixed in this law. And the last. I'd like to answer Dmitri Volodymyrovich Tobacco about the fact that after the first reading, the adoption in the first reading of the laws passed by our colleagues Vudovenko and Movchan, it seems that there will be a moment when international agreements with Russia will have to be broken. After the first reading of this moment, of course, it won't come. But we need to see something else. Today there is a naked, direct norm of the Constitution, which states that there are no foreign bases in Ukraine, and there is a treaty. So what is the above in Ukraine: Constitution or covenant? I think that's what we need to think about and not worry about, that we can, on the first reading, adopt a document and break an international agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u47	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, I am also joining all of these compliments that have been made by the authors who have drafted some of these bills today. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are, in fact, arguing today how to build and what to build: a city to build or to cross. So if we find out for ourselves what matters to us today first: it's the Supreme Council's decision or the law, then we can think about how important it is to us from these legislative directions that we are building today. I think that we can stop today at all, coming out of the co-operation of article 85-92, on what the Supreme Council is supposed to accept as principles both external and internal politics. But there may be different committees that can dilute all these documents separately so as to unite them. That's the first one. And the second. If we are to talk about what is more important to us today, I would like to offer you such an action. I think that before we all adopt either the law or the decision on foreign and domestic policy, we should adopt a law that has that name as a work name: the order in which the Supreme Council defines the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies. If it is, indeed, an adopted law, then we will have the rules of the game, how we will accept the opportunities that have been offered in this room today. And when this is done legally, then I think we have to work out, for example, what we have for today is the principle of foreign policy. And there, in this law that defines the rules of the game, you could write that, for example, the Supreme Council of every new call in the first year of its mandate takes a decision in the form of a decision that determines the principles of foreign policy. Next, it could be said that the newly elected council can confirm the preconceived principle adopted by the Supreme Council. And if the newly elected council does not, during the new year, confirm the previous convening of the principle adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and do not change its separate positions, they will continue to act on foreign policy at the Supreme Council of the previous call. These rules could also include, for example, foreign policy, that Ukraine’s national interests in international relations constitute three main groups, such as strategic and geopolitical interests related to ensuring Ukraine’s national security and protecting its political independence, the economic interests associated with Ukraine’s integration into the world economy, and regional, sub-regional and local interests related to ensuring the various specific needs of Ukraine’s internal development. In doing so, we would remove those disputes, because these rules of the game would not allow the various political powers to stand up for some point of view that contradicts the general movement of Ukraine and the stand for Ukrainian statehood. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the discussion is concluded. No, well, you don't have to develop again if you do it again. Ivan Alexandrovich, please excuse me, your time has passed, that's enough. Dear colleagues, we've been given time, you've spoken. Anything, please, from the Pavlovsky procedure. Ivan Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I have a short line. I'm not going to call it a name, but I want to say, Your Honor, without protectionism, no country can develop and never be developed. Protectionism is most characteristic of the superpowers and, above all, of Russia. Academist Pahmov writes in his book The Ways and Pathways of World Civilisation that dual morality is a characteristic of the market of developed countries in general. President Nuscanen's economic advisor resigned because he could not stand the double morals of President Reagan. He's talking about liberalisation, and more severe protectionism in terms of protecting the U.S. market, as was the case with Reagan, has never been. So you have to understand, reverend, the development of the state as a child. While she's young and immature, she needs to be protected. It's protectionism. And when the kids are nowhere to go, we all have to scream, "Openness, liberalisation!" So we want to be developed, we need to follow the example of developed nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u51	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies, and we're done. I say again, don't shout, Ivan Alexanderovich. You won't do anything with your throat. We'll make a deal. Be present in the hall when we agree on the procedure for dealing with the matter. That's enough. Please turn on the microphone. Take it and show it. I say again, Ivan Alexanderovich. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I was surprised by the position of head of the Committee in foreign affairs and the deliberate distortion of my visions in external relations. In fact, it was a violation of all the points I was making, and it was deliberately done, because I was referring exclusively to the Constitution. The point is, in some situations, the committee head claims to be a consistent European, an integrationist, a liberal, a reformer, and today he has actually revealed his face. And it looks paradoxically like the backdrop of the agreements that are going on between Putin and Bush on the backdrop of completely all the emphasis in Russia and the United States policy, and we're looking at a situation that's been set up by a small group of people. They want to play by the rules, by the individual place in Ukraine and by a separate reservation. That's why I refer to the Constitution and quote for Dmitri Volodymyrovich: "In Ukraine, no foreign military bases are allowed" and all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u54	is done to disorient all Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u55	Thank you. The replica. Smoker Dmitry Volodymyrovich, please. 7:29:46
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! Dear Paul Mikhailovich! I would ask you to follow only your face, its sequence, its evolution over the last 10 to 12 years. Leave my face with me. I just said that I said that eight projects have no even theoretical chance of accepting it. So the committee decided to set up a commission to finalize these bills by dividing them into two: the principles of internal politics, the principles of foreign policy. I pointed out to the colleagues present that if you, Paul Mikhailovich, were to accept a project or a draft of Deputy Widow in the first reading, then eventually you would have to break international agreements. I didn't appreciate it, but I said absolutely, as it were, a legal fact. And the last thing I'd like to say. What the committee is proposing is to work on it to preserve the best that the authors have put in. And an evaluation of the political face, the more prejudiced it is, is never in favor of the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let us conclude our consideration of this matter. Once again, I would like to point out that we agreed on an agreement board in the complex to look at these documents, to make them a presentation. I ask you, calm down, make some kind of presentation of these documents and have been invited to discuss them after all the bills have been submitted, because this is essentially a matter of question and here is the logic. We're looking at this issue today from 11 a.m. on and on, I mean, this is where I'm guilty, because I took advantage of my job, I offered you a job to complete this consideration. In addition, I would like to remind you that in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution, the prerogatives of the Supreme Council are to determine the principles of internal and external policy. The way we're going to do it, but we have to do it, and we're going to do it. I know it's hard, it's hard, but it has to be done. And I would like to say that this document has to be balanced and respond today to the moods that exist in society, and these sentiments represent in Parliament the political forces that are now acting as factions. And this will be the document that will compromise Ukrainian society. I would just like to say that, with the change of parliament, we should not change the basic principles, because that would mean that after the President's change, the country would change its course to Parliament. It must be a rigid, pragmatic course built on national interests. And I think on Thursday, we're going to define by voting. If we don't support any drafts, we're going to have to create a commission to work on the document. What he's going to look like is up to the commission. I just want you to support me so that we can define a hard term for a commission or a working group to submit this project in a set time frame, because it's hard to break it down, we have to have foreign policy to be a continuation and logically out of internal politics and vice versa. The question is that before the decision, we will be decided on Thursday. A draft Law on the Treatment of Private Property is being introduced for your consideration. I'd like, my dear colleagues, to focus your attention on what we need to look at in the complex: a draft law on reprivatization and a project on the alienation of property, so let's deal with these two issues quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u58	Well, in order to give Valentina Semenyuk a chance to report draft Law 1173, I'm reducing my deadline to 2 minutes. So the draft Act on the Treatment of the Disposal of Private Property is being introduced for your consideration. The drafting of this bill relating to the provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution, which determines that the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are solely the definition of the legal framework and the removal of private property. That is, the right of private property is protected from arbitrary and executive power. The draft legislation establishes the legal, economic, institutional basis for the seizure of private property in favour of a State or utility property. According to the project, the use of private property is the seizure of private property objects of the State, private property rights in favour of the State or utility property at the initiative of the owner or contrary to his will. Such management of property should be carried out for the purposes of Ukraine's national economic, environmental and international security needs, as well as to ensure the effective use of natural resources for the exclusive economic zone, the continental shelf, the development of outer space, the organization of the operation of energy systems, transport, communications and communications. To meet the public needs for production and vital products, work and services. To develop human settlements and develop their infrastructure. In order to eliminate violations of antitrust legislation. To reduce unemployment and avoid social conflicts. The transfer of property to the property of the State is proposed, and utilities are proposed by voluntary alienation to the owners of their property. And such examples are on the increase today. Requisition of property under the obligations of the owner. Sequestration of property that cannot legally belong to a private owner, such as drugs, weapons, and search-and-rescue equipment. Treatment of immovable property located on an seized land area. The redemption of the history and culture monuments. Reprivatization, nationalization, requisitions, liquidation of the legal person by decision of the court and confiscation. The project sets out the conditions, modalities, handling of property, the law and duties of the owners of the property. Cost dissuasion issues relating to property. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine notes in its conclusions that the bill requires further work, taking into account comments and proposals made. For second reading, these comments will be taken into account. The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, is there a question? Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Light up on the board. Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please, National Deputy Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u60	Dear colleague, please tell me when it comes, from your point of view, when we are reviving everything that is illegally privatized against the interests of our people in 10 years' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u61	Well, a moment like this, to say that this is going to be a failure since 7 November 1917, such a moment cannot be determined. But society understands that privatization has often been illegal for 10 years. Examples of such illegal privatization could be cited as mass. Privatization was mainly done to the detriment of the public economy, largely to the detriment of the people, and neither the budget nor the State nor the people benefited. So understanding all of these situations will just lead to the moment of truth when we say that we need to alienate private property in one way or another. This does not mean that property will be selected. Nationalization provides for the redemption of it, a preliminary ransom for the needs of the State, whether the owner agrees or not. Voluntary alienation of private property is also envisaged. That's what's happening today. For example, let us say that public organizations will now provide private owners with their buildings to enable public organizations to do their work there. It's happening today, and you're not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u62	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u63	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Socialists will support one of the bills or are united in reprivatizing property. Why, for today there are so many enterprises that are privatized, stopped, and there is no mechanism to return to state property and finance their restoration. I want to ask you. Does your bill provide for this particular sector of enterprises that are already privately owned and allow them to be reprivatized and receive state support for the restoration of jobs and jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u64	Yes, this sector is also envisaged. I repeat that the draft law provides for several types of, well, almost 10 types of private property handling, ranging from voluntary to requisition. So this law is a little wider than the law that Valentina Semenyuk is proposing. Of course, it is still a framework law, it will require further clarification and clarification, but today it determines the way in which a large or large number of assets, which have been privatized illegally, which has been privatized ineffectively, can be returned to public property and work more effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u65	National MP Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u66	Please pass the word to Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u67	Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u68	Dear Vladimir Josephovich, I have two questions for you, one of which is very specific. Because, unfortunately, I haven't been able to read this bill yet. I'll say it's very important and necessary today. So first of all, it's very specific. You said it was going through nationalization, requisitions and confiscation. But the thing is, these are all forms of nationalization. So nationalization takes several forms, its forms are props, expropriation, by the way, is also a form of nationalization, and confiscation. It's just a very specific moment. I think that's what I need, if it's going to be the same form, it's not quite right. And the second moment I want to ask you. In fact, in many countries there is a system of nationalization for so - called social needs. And in principle, when a local authority has made such a decision that, in order for a social need, it really has to be nationalized, essentially in the form of a requisition, i.e. with the full payment of the owner of what he was taken. In a court of law, this owner cannot cancel and charge this decision in terms of this form of nationalization. He can only charge him with the amount of compensation he must receive. So in this bill, you have a court case, can we then, in the case of a requisition, say, go to court, thinking that such an act is illegal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u69	Under the law, the owner has the right to appear before the court. But I would ask you to read the draft law anyway, because chapter 8 is about the return of property to the property of a State through nationalization. Chapter 9, which means I will now find the return of property to the property of the State on the basis of the requisition. Thus, 10 returns of property to the property of the State through reprivatization. So it's all written down, and that's the form that's written down. So he can appeal to a court, but whose interests will be upheld by a court, either by a State or by a private owner. He will defend the interests of the law and the law will describe it. No one forbids the owner to go to court, which is a natural form.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u70	Thank you. Time's up. From the Cabinet of Ministers. Sergei Andryovich, do you have anything? Please, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration Sergey Andryovich Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers fully supports the position of the Supreme Council Committee on this bill. The only request is because the State Property Fund of Ukraine is currently drafting the Property Reprivatisation Act, the proposal is not to pass two bills, but to unite the efforts and committee of the Supreme Council and the Property Fund in order to present to the Supreme Council Hall a single project that would take into account the solution of this problem in an integrated manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss this? Dear colleagues! You have to sign up for the procedure. I have a national deputy from Saintess written down to discuss this matter. Please, is the People's Deputies a Saint? There's no point. The question is closed. We'll decide when we vote. Dear colleagues! If anyone wants to participate according to procedure, write it down. You are being reviewed by the draft Property Reprivatization Act in Ukraine. Communicator of the People's Deputy, Seminouk Valentina Petrovna. Please, Valentina Petrovna. How long do you need? Ten minutes. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! The ideology of the bill, reported by my colleague Matthew, is somewhat intertwined, but the essence of the Law on Reprivatization is, at some points, I want to report today. The Ukrainian Property Reprivatisation Bill was drafted in accordance with articles 13, 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Property Laws, local self-government in Ukraine and the European Charter on Local Self-Government. Why did I personally take on his work? As early as 1994, in the first year of my work in Parliament, I spoke from the Supreme Council’s rostrum about the need for a clear legislative fastening and dispersion of property. After the economic chapter in the old Constitution was destroyed, state ownership became, as it were, a nullity. And with the first decrees at that time, Prime Minister Kuchma, all the funds, savings, trusts were emptied not only of the citizens’ pockets but also of the state’s circulation and property. As I was working in the region, I saw a picture that, so-called, acceptance went through the trinity system: the uncle of Kiev was a merchant, the manager, the accountant was covering up businesses, and the heads of district councils, district councils, I'm not talking about deputies anymore, and I don't know who privatized the enterprise. Meanwhile, production stopped as a result. That is why, seeing all these problems in places with privatization, I suggested that I do inventory and adopt a law on treasury property, on the management of public property. At the same time, I emphasized the need to adopt a law on municipal property. This is the property that belongs to the territorial communities. I said there should be laws both on privatization and on reprivatisation, because the law on reprivatisation is a normative incentive for the well-being and quality of the commitments made in privatization. At the same time, it is a penal regulator to ensure that those who fail or do not properly fulfil their obligations, while changing the profile of the enterprise, unjustifiably reduce their jobs, unduly suspend their production, thereby causing significant damage to the economy of the state and the economic situation of the enterprise. But all I did at the time was talk to my fellow Socialists, and there was only one thing I could do -- do property inventory and approve a list that wasn't privatized, and the Cabinet of Ministers would approve an appropriate inventory of the property. The commission given to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the development of other legislative instruments remained on paper. Laws on municipal property were developed by me and also by MP Matthew. Under the pressure of MPs, councils of various levels and associations of councils of cities and rural and village councils were accepted in the first reading and thus far it has not been accepted. The law on the administration of public property was much more difficult. Only with the help of the international community was it accepted in the first reading. Why am I so detailed about the history of previous laws? Because of my understanding that it is easier to fish in the murky waters by legal and illegal means, stretching out national national property that has been created by not one generation of our grandparents and parents who are now living half hungry with no wages, no pensions, no livelihoods, no blood savings, because they are deprived of their right to health, they are deprived of the basic capacity to live longevity. It's been a long struggle for us to make an order of property like this beginning of my speech. But I say this in order that both my colleagues and all the listeners of my report may be well remembered: Why be, therefore, not for a minute. Because today, the President has already talked about the need to adopt a law on reprivatization, on the grounds that it is necessary to order privatized enterprises that are inefficient or stopped. So, I think by adopting this bill in the first reading with the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Property Fund will be able to make proposals that will benefit both the State and put in the legal framework of disgruntled admirers. Taking into account the findings of the Scientific Expert Department, as well as the suggestions I heard at the Economic Policy Committee meeting, I would like to highlight the following. The law on reprivatisation is a framework, on the basis of which a reprivatisation program will be adopted with a specific list of enterprises. In particular, it describes in detail the democratic principle of the selection of enterprises that are subject to reprivatisation. I focus on the transparency and openness that should be outlined in the bill. Because today it is not a secret that Ukrainians are ruled by clans that have patronage and patronage, and if there is no openness to reprisals, those entrepreneurs who have built or created a new one can become a lasagna piece for clans and magnets who, with a reprivatization mechanism, will use it for their own purposes. And then those mid-class venture plants will be crushed. That's why I proposed the following systems: the reprivatization initiative, the decision to reprivatize, the decision to execute. In doing so, as initiators, it is perfectly logical for the executive authorities, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the local councils to speak. As decision - making bodies, the Supreme Council and local councils should speak. The decision to designate an object that is subject to reprivatisation is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in cases where compensation is made on the basis of a public budget or a non-reliant privatization fund; the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - in cases where compensation is made on the basis of the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea; local self-government bodies - in cases where compensation is made at the expense of local budgets. An authority that violates the question of reprivatisation submits to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils, local self-government authorities, along with a submission on the reprivatisation of the technical and economic justification for the need to reprivatise an object, the court's decision on the existence of legislative violations during privatization, if any. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, through local self - government authorities, decides on the need for reprivatization and submits to the Supreme Council or the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self - government bodies, along with materials that support the decision to reprivatize. The Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Economics of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the administration of the economy of the local self-government authority on the possibility of appropriate funding in reprivatisation. And the Scientific and Expert Department and the members of the Supreme Council of the Economic Policy Committee have commented that there is a need to change in more detail when this bill is being finalized in order to return the assets of those enterprises that have failed to fulfil their investment commitments. But, Your Honor, there were no obligations under certification privatization. And so far, the Privatisation Control Commission is receiving hundreds of letters from the labour groups that privatized the enterprises for the certificates. They ask themselves to take businesses to state property, and free of charge so that only one enterprise can work. And it's not an accident. I've moved on to the property recovery scheme. I do this because the procedure was the biggest concern of the national deputies who kept asking me the question: Who will be the compensation and what amounts? Wouldn't that be another tool for disgruntled "abductors" to dissipate budget funds? That's why I'm stressing democracy in the selection of enterprises for their reprivatisation and the evaluation mechanism. In the course of certification privatization, citizens paid only for the services of the notary and the services of the savings bank, which is the fate to be paid, because the amount of the privatization certificate was paid free of charge by the State. Taking note of this, I would like to take into account another of my proposals that will allow for the extension of this bill. First. The valuation of the object’s reprisal is done according to the methodology. In the case of forced foreign exchange in the property of the State or in the property of the privatized property community, the amount of compensation is equal to the amount of money or the nominal value of the privatization certificates paid for the object during privatization. In the event of voluntary alienation, it is passed on voluntarily and according to the Property Assessment Act, Property Rights and Professional Appreciative Activities in Ukraine. In the event of the return of property to the property of the State or to the property of a privatized property community through the participation of a State or a territorial community, in the recovery of the enterprise, in the event of bankruptcy, the value of the property and the extent of the compensation shall be determined in accordance with the law on the recovery or determination of the debtor's ability to pay. I'm done. In the case of acquisitions of shares, corporate rights issued by a reprivatised enterprise, the value of property is determined in accordance with the law on property valuation, property rights and professional valuation activities. In particular, I would like to point out that, during the last Supreme Council period, there have been very many bills on debt write-offs and restructuring. It also provided a large amount of benefits during so - called tax benefits. That's why I proposed in this bill that the amount of aid granted during privatization or write-off should be the value of the property that should be transferred to the State by means of a reprivatisation mechanism. Dear colleagues! I didn't say by accident that the mechanism of democracy, the mechanism for involving the councils of the people's deputies, was different, which today should be involved in preparing the mechanism for reprivatization. This will make it possible to see clearly which object does not work, which mechanism should work. At the same time, I want to say that even after I passed the law on reprivatisation, even after the foundation of the State Property Fund, it can be shown that those disgruntled "acquisitioners" who privatized enterprises and failed to fulfil their obligations was, as it were, an incentive to carry out their investment commitments. The very name allowed for the thought of disgruntled privatizers and the corresponding commitments made during privatization. At the same time, if someone is intimidated by a reprivatization mechanism, it can be identified, and I could agree to another name given by Matthew accordingly. But once again, what's important to us today is to keep those entrepreneurs who raised themselves, and not to use this law to destroy those businesses that work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, please sign in. Please point it on the board. National MP Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u75	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. The distinguished rapporteur, I understand the idea that moved you to consider this law, I understand the idea that moved the deputies who wrote the bankruptcy law. But the mechanism for the application of the same bankruptcy law, unfortunately to date, makes it possible to think that this law is not being used on purpose or to revive businesses today, but to create conditions for free ownership of the enterprise. Do you not feel that this law can play the same sad role that the bankruptcy law is playing today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u76	Thank you. First of all, I repeated several times that it was necessary to use the reprivatization mechanism in this session room. And when the deputies of the district councils, the district councillors, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, will present a technical and economic justification, then the acceptance mechanism will not be used, as I said in this report. In addition, another major change needs to be considered. This is what we, socialists today, propose: a change of power. When the Cabinet of Ministers is formed by the Supreme Council, those who will work today and make technical and economic justifications will think and bear their responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u77	Please, Nightmare. It's a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u78	The faction of the Party of Entrepreneurs and Industrialists and the Labour Ukraine, the parliamentary majority. Dear Valentina Petrovna, I have two questions for you. I support the idea of reprivatization and that there is a mechanism for the return of objects that you have said fall into the wrong hands. I have objects in my district that have not been used in five years. But they're all stretched out to the pen. There's no money in the state to raise. Well, I guess there was a lack of intelligence. Which way? Well, you're going to go back and then what's to sell again? That's the first question. And the second question. The project foresees the possibility of forcible alienation of private property objects without prior compensation. This is in line with the second sentence of part five of article 41 of the Constitution, which is permitted only under conditions of war or state of emergency. How do you, as a developer, avoid this colossal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u79	The answer to the first question. First of all, I want to tell you that when we talked about the basic principles of socio-economic policy in the state before that, we talked about the strategy for the development of our state. There is no need to say that all objects that are not working today should be taken away. We have a mechanism where, if there are objects that are vital to the budget, economic calculations are made and appropriate are made, this enterprise is taken away to raise it. The object that does not have an economic effect today does not need to be accepted or taken into public property. I said this by accident that there should be a clear mechanism and economic calculations. So if you have an object that is not present to the State today, you do not have to return it to state property. For example, we have a program called Sugar in Ukraine. Of the 199 sugar factories, 91 actually already, they don't really need to be picked up. The rest, by giving appropriate irrigation, by expanding the soybeans to the outside market for sugar, can be made available to the state. Thus, such objects will need to be taken into account, and such objects will need to be taken away. But you and I in this session room will see in your district what objects will include, which will have an economic effect, and which will not yield. And the reprivatization program here will be approved. It's about coming back. Once again, I said that there was a mechanism of volunteerism. And it was designed in accordance with articles 13 and 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine. There is only partial compensation for the alienation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u80	We continue our work for another 15 minutes to complete our consideration of the matter. National Deputy Homutinnik, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u81	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would also like to address the speaker and the Cabinet of Ministers. We have been privatizing for ten years. This year's privatization programme is not being fully implemented. We are adopting a privatization programme, and we are considering a privatization programme for the next six years. How do we want to privatize our property, how do we want to attract investors if we want to adopt such laws? I understand the position of left-handed forces. They went to the polls with it, and it's a flag. But how does the Cabinet of Ministers support this question for me. Question to the speaker. The reason for reprisals is the harm to society, the so-called motivation. What is "injury to society"? And if there is any definition of this harm to society in the bill, please explain yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u82	This is in harmony with article 13 of the Constitution, which states: Property should not be used to the detriment of man and society. That's the correct explanation given to the legal encyclopedia. That's the first one. The other one. Fear of reprisals. There is today the experience of many European states that were not afraid to privatize, reprivatization, nationalization, if this is for the public interest of the state. And there's no need to be afraid that the reprivatisation mechanism can be a threat to those foreign investors who will come, let them be better afraid of our terrible corruption. If we're talking about the openness of the law, the openness of adopting a reprivatization program, it's also about democracy. And today, investors fear that fraud, that theft, that corruption that is in the state today, not the law of reprivatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u83	Thank you, Valenita Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u85	From the committee, National Deputy Demjochin, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask that we work quickly, and we need to complete this consideration so that we don't break it up and move it to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u86	Respectable leaders of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! The issue that is proposed to be regulated in accordance with the provisions of the proposed legislation under consideration is sufficiently resonant. You've already felt it in the hall, even on questions. It is a resonant question, both in terms of socio-economic, and in terms of political, it is not necessary to hide it, it is not necessary to deceive it. I would like to refer to the meaningful socio-economic side of the bill. It follows from a substantive analysis of the bill that it is intended to regulate the processes of privatization, i.e. a broader area of property relations than is in the title of the bill and is used in the text of terminology. Indeed, reprivatization involves the privatization of enterprises by new owners, not the return of property to the owner, i.e., essentially to the State in our case. In examining the main provisions of the draft law, it appears that the next phase of the privatization programme will be the stage that is characterized by the fact that major investors have already made investments, the amount of income for investment enterprises falls and this provides the basis for initiating the procedure for the return and management of privatized enterprises to public administration. This does not exclude issues where poor enterprise management is not to be privatized, the issue of reprivatization and perhaps privatization. Under existing legislation, the issue of the return of property to public property is regulated by the relevant provisions of the property law for today, the restoration of the ability of the debtor and the recognition of bankruptcy. The Civil Code of Ukraine and other legislation. To date, the only legitimate means of returning property to the public were the recognition of an invalid contract for the sale of State property. A judicial break in the contract for the sale of households due to the failure of buyers to comply with the terms of the contract. You know very well we often witness such precedents. Today we can say that this bill will not fully contribute to the development of the economic policy of our State, to improving the management of the people's economy. The adoption of the bill could jeopardize the already low level of investor confidence. Both domestic and foreign in our economy. Of course, such a law is necessary, and given that the law on reprivatization is under consideration in the Cabinet of Ministers today. There are instructions from the President concerned on the need to draft a draft law on reprivatization and to submit it to the Supreme Council. We on the committee have decided to reject the bill in order to further consider it with a bill that already exists, it is being considered, to take into account the proposals that are contained in the bill, because it is necessary to understand clearly what such reprivatization, privatization, legislative regulation is necessary to regulate us by preaching. The Government's programme for the next year and for the next two years, the most important is the investment and innovation nature of the Government's activities. We have endured this principle, and this law has not put a cross on this good idea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u87	Thank you. Are you sure there will be questions for you? Please sign up for a question, five minutes. Light up on the board. Hinzburg, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u88	Thank you. Ginsburg, 161 district, Communist faction. I would like to have the answer to this question: Please tell me, today, we are afraid of the adoption of a law on reprivatization that should put into place what has been committed, including in factories where there are no wages paid today for two or more years. But that's the question. Where, then, do you feel that the privatization of the voucher itself, which was carried out in its own time, has gone through such violations and the distribution of the property has gone into one hand of material value and the main mass of the population has remained completely poor and poor? Is that what you're looking at?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u89	I would like to say that I have submitted the opinion of the Committee. And now I want to tell you about my opinion. I am very negative about this because the first phase of privatization, and today the same goes with the ground, is pure fraud. And we must speak here without wickedness. The errors already received will not be fully corrected. But what should be the law in the State, which clearly spells out: how privatization, reprivatization, deprivatization, and if an investor fails to fulfil an obligation, we must terminate the contract with him, whether these investment commitments are paid for part of the shares. So the law must be. And my position is that the sooner we work out, but given that the bill is already in the Cabinet of Ministers, we need to take those positive moments into account and accept it more quickly. Yes, please, the people's representative of Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u90	Thank you. Volodymyr Anatoliyovich, I wanted to ask you a question, you almost answered him, about what really, when privatization took place on condition, and the investor or someone who bought it didn't comply with that condition, then, really, maybe the Property Fund might violate the question and take back the property of this object. But it seems to me that this is the only way to go, not to approve reprivatization programs at sessions. It's going to be so long, I think it's only going to be worse than that. I'd like to ask you two more questions. That's the question. As you look at the problems, let's say the same nationalization from the point of view, if the object is simply abandoned, or used as a non-equity property element as a non-equity property. Today, there are such things when, in fact, they have bought out objects, they have been thrown away.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u91	Why did they turn off the microphone? What the system can't handle. Assadchev didn't finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u92	One more, yes. It's like owning property. And the second point, after all, is your attitude towards requisition, in terms of social needs, nationalization with full compensation and payment to the owner of the corresponding amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u93	You know, respectable colleagues, because when there is a dispute between specific facilities, i.e. the owner who has already privatized property, and if he does not, he has his reasons why he does not. On the other hand, for example, the State. You see, the concept of a State is sufficiently confused today. Who, the Property Fund or the authorized person, is entrusted with this? And in this case, using those mechanisms that we all know usually win who is a particular economic object. In world practice, there are examples where, for a stamp, giant enterprises that are involved in billions of investments are sold for the dollar and they are starting to work. We have such examples in Germany. My attitude towards nationalization is positive. If the object today is a result of privatization, its owner has lost it if people do not receive wages, if the enterprise is worth it, the State must nationalize it in the interests of the protection of its citizens. The mechanism must be for that purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u94	Please, Landik, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u95	Dear Vladimir Anatolyevich! Indeed, you have started this question, and I agree, and not many times do not agree with Valentina Petrovna, and I agree that the mass of enterprises is privatized, the mass is taken away and standing today. They're trying to resell them, make money and so on. I agree with her 100 percent. But I don't agree with her when she says, "The state must take it away." You can name at least one enterprise that the Power has taken today or needs. It's a dick. So I just want to talk to you, you're starting to have a conversation the way you do, your attitude towards it. What we might write down, like Germany, for one brand of business, but to write down, people have to work so many people, wages have to be like that, products have to be like that. Maybe it's better to bring it into the privatization law, come back to record and in some way better than what the state says today is going to take, and it's not going to take it, because they don't need it. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u96	You know, we have an appropriate body, the State Property Fund of Ukraine. A week ago, we held an exit committee in the free economic zone of the Maple. What's the big deal? Larger shells that were built in Soviet times. Why couldn't they sell them for a bracelet? Because trade unions can't make a price, so German entrepreneurs come in and put in some kind of money, built a collection unit nearby, and they work, they issue, they publish, they sew, yes. So there's going to be a lot of examples like this. Yeah, I don't know, in my memory, I don't know where we can get an object back. I don't think we're gonna see it anytime soon. But in the idea of, if we are reasonably, the State-owned property that is in the country, it was the result of privatization projects, processes, it became the property of a particular private investor and it did not fulfil the obligation, there must be mechanisms in the State for the return of that property through some nationalization, a requisition, in the end, if there are any appropriate prerequisites for that. So, but we need to focus on loading the business, creating appropriate socio-economic conditions for the people who work there.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u97	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, from the government, please, Sergey Andrievich Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! We fully support the position of the Supreme Council committee on the rejection of this bill, since the bill is aimed at the progressive return of privatized property to state property. And this position is reinforced by just the warnings that are echoing on the question of MPs right now when we discuss this bill. Once again, the law on reprivatization is being developed, it is needed, and today it is being developed by the State Property Fund. It is proposed that the two bills be drafted together in order to submit a reprivatization project to the Supreme Council Hall, which would take into account all the nuances involved in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u101	Semenyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u102	Thank you. You know, I thank my friends for working so hard and asking questions, and I'd like to speak to the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. Since the year 94, I have proposed to draft this law, and there is no need to fear that it will be gone within ten years, and there will be no need to reprivatize and work with what enterprises. There must be a mechanism for privatization, reprivatisation and the mechanisms to regulate them. I'll tell you how I passed the law on the administration of public property, I developed it, translated it into English, sent it to all the foreign embassies, all the international institutions, got a positive response, until the Cabinet of Ministers supported my bill. And government property is not managed by anything or by anything. If we continue to develop such a law on reprivatization, then the Cabinet doesn't need it. We need to adopt this bill as soon as possible. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a specific proposition: there are two bills -- mine and Matthew, give us the opportunity to work for 10 days, we're going to introduce one compatible, we're going to agree with the State Property Fund, but we need to enact such a law. Because the President's decrees that are already being given by way of a privatisation order are also a guarantee that he will listen to the opposition and that order is needed. And waiting for the Cabinet of Ministers to be born will be long and long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, perhaps we can agree to this fair offer, especially since we have 15 minutes to go, I am forced to close the session. Please. No, I would like to consult you: Your Honor, in order to continue this session, we had to vote and continue it in the morning. As chairman, I have the right to proceed without a vote for 15 minutes. Time's just running out. I ask you to listen to the proposal made by the national deputy Semenyuk. For the line, please. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u104	I'm taking it out of the discussion. My line sounds like this. I'm aware that the idea here is correct, but we see that the hall is divided into two parts. Maybe we and the State Property Fund and the initiators can develop this case-by-case option, let's say one resonant enterprise and see how this thing works. What's more, most experts say is that you could start by reprivatizing or nationalizing the Kyiv Dynamo and turning it into a folk club. Let's work on this scheme, see how it works, and then we'll take the corresponding bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-22-m1.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't have the urge to speak, let's be careful. I think we're done here. I think we'll support Valentina Seminouk's proposal, have her work done, by making a decision on Thursday. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. We will consider the matter according to the approved schedule of our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
