ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the system. Please register. [[10:02:24]] Registered -356 There are 356 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we discuss the issue of daytime order. You have a list of the questions that are proposed for consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, as our greatest chief and distinguished national MPs, many of you remember how I came out on this same stage after returning from Europe after meeting Major Melnichenko, when the derby S.B.A. gave us a stun at the Borispilla Customs, and we won all the courts and courts proving that the customs officer under the command of the U.S.B. violated the status of the National MP. This was an unprecedented event with regard to national MPs. I'm coming out here for the second time today to tell you that there's been another unprecedented event in Ukraine. You are forbidden by the courts in two areas of Ukraine to speak, to print, and to appear in the districts at all, and I will tell you now. Yesterday, practically, yesterday in Cherkas, the Court of Appeal ruled that you were not all deputies, but government officials. And today, Simonenko went to Royenko to campaign in 201st, and he can't do it anymore, because yesterday Judge Yushin of the Court of Appeal of Cherkas said that the national deputies who travel around the districts violate the Constitution and the Law on State Service and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. The same decision in the Dnipropetrov district of the Dnipropetrov District Court of Appeal, and yesterday and the week before and the week before, about 500 judges were so confirmed in the Courts of Appeal, and there was Ternova, Gornostiev and Kozlov the three of us who made the same decision where they write, it is practically written under a copy that the national deputies do not refer to the category of persons who are allowed to conduct the campaign. Then, I'm sorry, Your Honor, who among you did not lead the electoral campaign of deputies of the last election call. Maybe we'll go to those courts, have them cancel our status, because we've all had agitation and we've been elected, we've been given mandates? Yesterday on the county commission, I arrived from Chercas at 4:00 a.m., and at 11 p.m., the district commission's meeting ended. I'm talking to all the media: you're banned from 9 a.m. in the morning by the 201 District District District Commission, and you're no longer allowed to do 10, which is no longer, and I'm reading, "Prohibition of electoral campaigning in the media within 201 counties for the benefit of candidates in the People's House since 9 o'clock in the morning of November 12th." To get no UT-1s, the ICTTs weren't about the 201st district election. Do you even know what's going on? In paragraph 3, the District Commission writes "to ask the National Deputies not to conduct pre-disciplined agitation for the benefit of any candidate in the National Parliament in all forms of agitation." And now, what's all this for? This is done because yesterday the district commission issued a warning to a candidate in the national deputies of Bulatecki, because in the newspaper "Youth of Cherkaszczina" printed a portrait of Victor Yushchenka - everything! This is sent to the county commission. This is the newspaper that made the decision. And so do I.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u3	Sergey Perovich, let's make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u4	Wait, wait! And so is another newspaper, where Vladimir Olijnik is and where there are quotes from Timoshenko, Omelchenko, Onopenka, Frost, and so is my present - day interview. All of this, it turns out, is forbidden. The candidates have been given a warning, these two, so that today, if these newspapers appear in the district, they will be removed from the register. It seems that this decision is now being made in the case of Jir. And Bulatsky and the Oily, today or tomorrow. Yeah, sorry, tell me, who's doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u5	Sergey Petrovich, make an offer that we need to make right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u6	So that's my offer. Since both court decisions are practically written under the dictatorship, the judges have received from perhaps the highest lawyer of the state, and consider where he sits, the legal basis for demeaning deputies to the status of civil servant. That's the first one. The other one. District commissions make these decisions. I have an offer. The District Commissions have said that they really recognize that we are not deputies, we are civil servants. I propose to call here Rybc, the head of the Central Electoral Commission, to order immediately in their committees and to cancel these warnings and on the basis that the deputies were in the process of campaigning. I suggest. The other one. I propose, and now we're preparing a verdict, and now it's going to be bugged. Second, to consult the High Council of Justice, to get to know the decisions in these judicial cases of the judges who made these decisions, and the High Council of Justice has the right to conclude, and then to make appropriate proposals for these judges. Anatoly Matvienko will make this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u7	Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u8	There's going to be an offer, we have to take something. But Slave, I think we should listen to the Slave. I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to come and explain to us why we are not national deputies, but we are statesmen who are forbidden to advertise. We're not heads of administration, we're not ministers, we're not the heads of central executive power, we're not the president of Ukraine, we're not the president of the electoral campaign, we're the national deputies, we have the right to express our views, we have the constitutional right to express our views and beliefs throughout Ukraine at any time. And we've practically already entered a state of emergency in two districts or three districts, and we've been banned from speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u9	Sergei Petrovich, well, the question is clear. Dear colleagues, I now ask that we assign Vasily Hennady Andriyovich, along with Chief Sergey Petrovich and the Regulatory Committee, to study the matter and make appropriate proposals. Then we will make the right decision. It's a procedure matvienko and we're on our way to work. Matvienko, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko from the procedure, please. Well, I'm asking you, Catherine Timothy, come on. Well, then Vasuk and we'll keep working. Okay. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u10	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues, I was in the district yesterday, I was also in session as the head of the profiling committee. I want to ask you. First. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's now vote that we're going to make an exception today and make a decision. I've prepared the draft resolution, put it on registration, now it's multiplying. But in order for us to be assured that we will vote on this project, we will now decide that we will vote on this issue after the handover in order to move forward and work constructively. We can't help but make decisions today. It's balanced, it's oriented towards the High Council of Justice and the CBC. Understand that this is how opposition is destroyed. This is a well - thought - out norm. We have to stop because in these districts there will be a rerun, not a rerun, but a third election. And for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u11	Anatoly Sergiyovich, the offer is clear. We'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u12	Please vote now for us to vote after this document has been handed out. And the second to call the Hand. And you could have already given the order by decision of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, as soon as you do. Anatoly Sergiyovich, as soon as this draft document is distributed in this room, we will immediately vote. I'm sure everyone will. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, faction of agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, indeed, are insolent when they shut their mouths to the national MPs. But we should all remember and not make worship out of individuals we know very little about. Recently, our deputy faction went to the Cherkas region, and we were introduced to the organization of the election campaign in the famous 201 constituency, where Bulaticki, Vitrenko, Marchenko and Olijnik are prowling and so on. Well, you don't have to say today that there are no violations on the part of those candidates. For example, the candidate for the national deputy Bulatecki personally beat up Alexi Marchenko’s son so much that the child is in the hospital — with both his legs and his hands — and drove an ambulance. All Cherkas know about it. Therefore, we cannot make one icon and demand great protection, and the other one cannot be made into darkness. I think the people will be taken care of, the voters who will be chosen, and we will welcome them into our family. It is well - known to make a beautiful image, and to whom it is not fair on our part. And, I think it's a violation, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputy Kendzior Jaroslav Mihajlovich. Let's welcome him. Let's wish him well. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Please listen to the announcement. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I am informing you of the entry of Ukrainian National Deputies Zhivago Valentina Valentinović into the membership of the European Election Group, Suškevitch Valery Mihajlovich and Gladys Vasil Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me finish. Dear colleague of the people! I'd like to ask you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleague! I would like to have a tolerant attitude toward all the national MPs. All MPs are entitled to their own perspective. You're going to have to speak on this, you're going to speak on this. Come on, I'll finish the conversation. Repeat, announcing. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the Entry of National Deputies of Ukraine Zhivago Constantine Valentinović into the European Election Group, Suskevitch Valery Mihajlovich and Gladys Vasil Ivanovich into the membership of the deputy faction and political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and Trudovska Ukraine, Trzebekka Mikhail Aleksijovich into the Democrat Initiatives. Dear colleagues! The rule does not provide for the consideration of parliamentary requests, but considering the conclusion of the session today, it would be possible to consider those that have come if your agreement were to do so. Is there no objection? Just a minute. I'll finish, then there'll be a line, not when you want. People's MPs have been asked. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, I'll finish. Now there'll be a line. One minute, I'll finish and there'll be a line. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute for a lineup, Bondarenko. I would ask the pressure not to take over the rostrum. I'm asking you, it won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Bondarenko, Our Ukraine. When Catherine Timofievna mentions any beatings that have not been verified today, no one has been established and all of Ukraine has been watered by the filth of our candidate Mikola Bulatecki, I would like to draw your attention to the ministers who are present here, that state officials, ministers of Ukraine Vasil Durdinec, Vasil Kremen, Šlapak, Duženko, Secretary of State of Hapon, as well as the deputy head of the administration of President Horokovsky are directing the agitation, shouting their hands out to the deputies of Kyivradya, and no one has paid any attention to it, turning to the faction "For Edou". There's an aggrieve for this faction at the Royal Village. Then they challenge the tax administration, and there they twist their hands, scaring the files, and drive them into this faction. No one notices that. Today, we find that Bulatecki is saying something wrong or that the national deputies are going somewhere to say something.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u17	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u18	Do you need to shut your mouth? So you're being blocked by your own hands, Catherine Timothy, and you're being given the right to speak on Volina. Take the Governor magazine, you're on every page. You have to wipe out all over you, you have no right to be in the magazine, as I do, according to a court order. So, if you'll excuse me, you can't pat yourself, first of all, on your own! And I think that people's deputies today should pay more attention to this because these little concessions we are doing what today Ukraine is really turning into a state where we will not be given the right to say a word at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, there have been requests from the national deputies. To the Minister of Foreign Affairs in connection with the text of the Przeyaslav Agreement in connection with the press report on its absence from archives, its absence, this agreement, in the archives of Ukraine. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please make up your mind. [[10:19:16]] For-123 For -123, the decision is made. Michael Kosova to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for legislative authority to take measures aimed at achieving civil peace in Ukrainian society. I'll bet you a vote on that request. Please make up your mind. [[10:19:45]] For 1052 Decision taken. Vasil Tsushka and a group of deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of a decree approving the lists of documents and groups of goods that are protected by holographic protective elements. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:19]] For 206 Decision taken. Viacheslava Anisimov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure to pay wages to employees of specialised construction organizations in Dniprožinska. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:20:49]] For-160. Decision taken. Victor Baloga and a group of national deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, regarding the share of the funds of the Solotvinian Allergological Hospital of the Zakarpatsk Region held at the bank “Ukraine”. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:21:25]] For-152. Georgia Kruczkova and Michael Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a semi-lead, solid and titanium field of color metallurgy. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:21:51]] For-164 Decision taken. Viacheslava Anisimov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with a protest by the employees of the State Holding Company Pavlogradugil against the sale of mines in western Donbas. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:22:20]] For 169 Decision taken. Mikoli Anischuk and a group of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers on the facts of the violation of the requirements of environmental legislation in the village of Brusil in the region of Žitomir. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:53]] For-143 Decision taken. Michael Pavlovsky and Taras Crnovol to the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the illegal actions of the authorities and law enforcement authorities concerning the chief doctor of Biloczerk Hospital No. 2. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:27]] For-137 Decision taken. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to the Attorney-General on the pressure of a number of executive officials, law enforcement agencies, tax administration to the deputies of the Kiev City Council for the purpose of their admission to the "For the One Ukraine" MP group, which is formed in the City Council. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. [[10:24:04]] For 165 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, since we have the last day of the session today, I suggest we take a break at 12 o'clock not to do it, at 1:00 p.m. to summarize the session and finish the job. Is there no objection? Thank you. Let us now consider the issues in line with the schedule of meetings. The committee's request, Anatoly Sergiyovich, was. Report by the Government of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002 and on the use of the funds of the Ukrainian Cabinet Reserve Fund in the current year. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes that we address this issue by order of order: a report by the Minister of Finance in 15 minutes, questions and answers in 10 minutes, a report by the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs in 10 minutes, answers to questions in 10 minutes, discussion and decision-making in 5 minutes. Is there no objection? They agreed. Please, on behalf of the People's Deputy Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kalinczuk, Clothing, Ukrainian Agrarian faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations asks you, ladies and gentlemen, today as an exception to consider the issue and to make a decision on a government report that we were unable to take yesterday on the preparations for harvesting. I am asking you, dear friends, to make this decision, because if we do not make this decision, its relevance will be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I think that after considering the first question, we can put the inclusion in the agenda and vote on the decision. Is there any objection? Do you want to vote now? I ask, if there is no objection, and there were such proposals, to vote in favour of including now for the decision a draft Decision on Information to the Ukrainian Minister's Office on the state of preparation for harvesting in 2002. Is there no objection? Because it's really going to lose its relevance. Please vote in favour. [[10:26:50]] For-189 For - 189, no decision taken. The factions. National Deputy Sulkovsky. Replica, please. National Deputy Sulkovsky, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm a member of the APC Committee and land relations and a deputy head, you know, respectable friends, we were all in the districts literally a week ago. And we know very well how the peasants have begun to gather grains today in difficult conditions. And so today, if we're on vacation and we don't vote on this decision, it's just going to be very difficult for us to go back to the village. And so, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am deeply convinced that this vote now just took place like this, didn't take many deputies into the vote. So I ask you to vote on this issue and to include it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u23	The offer is understood. Dear colleagues, at the suggestion of the National Deputy Sulkovski, I once again propose the inclusion in the agenda for the decision of the draft Decision on Information to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine "On the Status of Preparation for Harvesting in 2002". Please vote. [[10:28:38]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this ruling now. Please support the proposal that we now vote in favour of a decision. Please vote. [[10:29:07]] For 251 Dear colleagues, I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote as a basis. We voted in favour of voting now, because today is not the day to vote. [[10:29:31]] For 242 For 242. If there is no objection, I make a draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of preparation for harvesting in 2002 as a whole as a decree. Please vote. [[10:29:58]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. Report by the Government of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002 and on the use of the funds of the Ukrainian Cabinet reserve fund in the current year. Please, Igor Olegovich. Dear colleagues, since medical personnel have gathered near the Supreme Council today, they are asking to turn on the broadcast so that they can hear about how the budget is being implemented. There is no objection. I'm giving you an assignment to include a broadcast when you listen to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, at the beginning of the report, I would like to point out that unfortunately today it is impossible to give a thorough analysis of the implementation of the State Budget in the first half of the year. I want to remind you that there are appropriate provisions of the Budget Code that give the government 35 days to prepare a quarterly or a half-year report. So that information is now available for your consideration, it is operational and, of course, can be readjusted in some way on the basis of the final summation when all the information required is obtained. The rapid implementation of the budget in the first half of this year took place in conditions of general economic growth, which was accompanied by a mixed impact on the budgetary situation by the dynamics of exchange rate prices and other macroeconomic indicators. Ukraine’s economy has been strongly influenced by global economic trends and numerous protection measures that have been taken by international societies or by individual countries in respect of goods exported from Ukraine. Under these conditions, the real gross domestic product increased by 4.3 percent against the corresponding period last year, with a deflation of 1.8 percent. There has been an increase in the volume of industrial production. In January-June 2002, compared to the corresponding 5.8 percent period last year. Fifty-five percent of industrial enterprises have been profitable, earning 9 billion dollars against 50 percent of businesses in the past period. According to Ukrainian Ministry of Finance experts, the external economic and economic impact on Ukraine's economy and the corresponding performance of the budget is around 700 million dollars in the first half of the year. Much less than the projected growth in GDP has reduced the budget's income by about 150 million dollars, the exchange rate is about 130 million dollars, the inflation of about 490 million dollars and the additional losses in business income are about 5 billion dollars and the corresponding income tax is about 1 billion. In addition, I would like to point out that the approval of the implementation of the budget is inextricable. Some budget implementation problems arise during its consideration, including the Supreme Council. Yes, last year against the government budget project, the Supreme Council had a 2 and 3 read increase in the budget's income by 1.8 billion dollars, and there are still some doubts that are not only possible, but also that we need to talk about. The country’s state budget for the reporting period has reached 19.7 billion dollars or 43.4 percent of the annual income allocations of the state budget for the current year. The revenue of the state budget has increased compared to the corresponding period of 2001, and I want to stress this figure to be heard by all the national MPs, 3 billion dollars or the corresponding increase in income over the first half of last year was 17 percent. That's a fact, not a plan. In the first half of 2002, the income portion of the U.S. state budget was 15.6 billion dollars, which is part of Plan 92. Seven percent. Compared to last year's period -- more than 2 billion dollars more than it was in the first half of last year. The increase rate of 15.3 percent in the aggregated prices of the divided periods. The government’s lack of income under these conditions was a year’s assignment of 1.2 billion dollars. In particular, failure to implement the corporate tax plan is 1 billion 252 million dollars. In addition to objective reasons, the lack of this source of income has been influenced by legislative decisions regarding the taxation of individual industries, which I think are more than objective reasons. I can remind you that in mid-January of this year, the Supreme Council passed a decision on the Act to Continue the Experimental Treatment of Mining Taxation. According to the Ministry of Finance, this is the loss of the budget in the current year of over 900 million dollars, according to the first half of the year, 450 million dollars. I will no longer talk about the adoption of relevant legislation going against the Code of Budgets, a code that allows such legislation to be adopted solely if the income part of the State budget is adjusted. The failure of the Excise Congregation from the goods imported into Ukraine to the general budget was 107 million dollars in the first half of the year. This change in revenue was compensated by the overturning of excise revenues in the internal market for 402 million dollars from goods made, as I said, in Ukraine. Payments for natural gas transit through Ukraine did not amount to 419 million dollars, dividends to 185 million. At the same time, there was little room for overcoming the VAT revenue plan by 416 million and the rent for natural gas produced in Ukraine -- 119 million dollars -- I remind you, in the first half of the year. The increase in these payments is ensured as an increase in tax discipline, administrative fees collection functions. And I want to remind you that in the first half of the year, although slowly, there was a decline in the amount of unreparable VAT. Revenues from official transfers from local budgets to the state budget amounted to 1 billion 401 million dollars or 104.8 percent of the budget allocations in the first half of the year. In the first half of the year, Kiev’s budget was fully accounted for by the debt owed to the government budget of 67.5 million dollars in 2001. The big negative is that, in the first half of the year, the under-recovery from privatization was 490 million dollars per year, and I'm reminding you, 5.8 billion is the destination of privatisation revenue for the current year, and an absolute majority of that revenue was projected for the second half. Under these conditions, according to article 21 of the U.S. State Budget 2002 Act, expenditure on salaries, social expenditure was primarily incurred and incurred. According to operational data, the expenditure of Ukraine's general budget for January-June of this year has been funded at 16.3 billion dollars, representing 87.7 per cent. Compared to the corresponding period of last year, actual expenditure increased by 2.9 billion or 21.6 percent. I remind you, it's actually funded. Of course, in these circumstances, the government primarily directed money to finance so - called socially important articles. Social payments in January-June this year are funded at 7.4 billion dollars, nearly 1 billion more than in the corresponding period last year, which is 100 percent of the budget allocation plan for the first half of this year. Salaries in the budget area and the military’s money are funded at 4.7 billion or 100 percent. In fact, it's a billion and 114 million dollars more than it was last year. Pensions for military and military officials and members of the military and military forces, internal affairs agencies are funded at 875 million dollars, or 99 percent of the plan, and there is no pension debt for military personnel. The social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster amounts to 964.5 million dollars, or 100 percent of the budget for the corresponding period. In fact, 196 million dollars, or 100 percent, have been allocated to the first half of the budget to compensate citizens for their losses. There is no budgetary debt under the general budget of the State, except for the debt from the Chernobyl payments, which has been reduced by 92 million dollars in the current year. In doing so, I want to remind you that it was the Chernobyl payout that was actually accumulated around 1995 and at the beginning of the year was 695 million dollars. Payment of utilities and energy carriers. In January - June of this year, 444 million dollars are funded, accounting for 88 percent of the reporting period, but 113 million dollars more, or 34.3 percent more than compared to the corresponding reporting period last year. Coal programs. Coal programs are funded in the amount of 1 billion 74, in fact millions of dollars, which is 100 percent of the plan for January - June of this year. In particular, partial coverage of the cost of debt to miners from regressive lawsuits and one-time aid -- 33.2 million dollars. In January - June of this year, 27 decrees were adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, providing for expenditure at the expense of the State Budget Reserve Fund totalling 44.5 million dollars. In fact, 36 million dollars have already been allocated, representing 14.4 percent of the year’s assignments and 80 percent of the amount of decisions made. Ukraine’s State Budget Act 2002 provides for expenditure on government capital investments of 490 million dollars. According to the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance of April 19, No. 551 "On the Approval of Lists of Objects Funded by National Centralised Capital Investments" in 2002, a total of 67.7 million dollars was actually allocated. These expenses are not prime and are financed by taking into account actual revenue from the State Budget. On July 1, 2002, the local budgets accounted for a grant of 2 billion 149 million dollars, representing 109.7 percent of the planned assignments of the reporting period. I would like to remind you that the removal from the local budgets, I've already talked about it today, has accounted for about a billion 400 million dollars, that is, over 700 million redistributions in addition to local budgets. According to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regulation of 28 January 2002, the number 95 status on 1 July listed the subsidy for the payment of benefits and subsidies to the population for electricity, natural gas, heating and water services of 1 billion 176 million dollars, which is in fact 94 per cent of the planned January-June assignments, of course, this year. Other subsidies are funded in practical terms. determined by the schedule, taking into account commitments made by the local budgets and the state of implementation of the State budget. Detailed information. This issue is contained in materials that are sent to the Supreme Council in additions. The public debt service costs for January-June of this year amounted to 1 billion 400 million dollars, including an internal 320 million dollars, an external billion 103 million, which is 476 million dollars or 25 percent less than budgeted for this period. Compared to January-June 2001, government debt service costs decreased by 461 million dollars. In January and June of this year, the principal debt cost 2 billion 458 million, of which 337.7 billion are internal, 121 million dollars, which is 390 million dollars or 13.7 percent less than we anticipated in the budget. What led to the economy’s service and payment of government debt? First of all, the economy, which totals almost 900 million dollars, was achieved by optimizing government debt service, reducing the cost of public debt service, and restructuring the part that could be done by the end of last year and the first half of the year. At the same time, the government debt since the beginning of the year decreased by 958 million dollars and totalled 73.7 billion dollars. Dear National Deputies! I would like to say a few words to conclude with regard to the draft decision that was distributed among the people's deputies. First of all, in our opinion, to assess the inadequacy of the actual budgetary indicators approved by the Supreme Council is indeed premature. The point is, first of all, the information given to the Supreme Council, I emphasize. First. It's operational. A more thorough analysis takes time. I actually started with that. In addition, we need to realize that the first half of the year was certainly not the best time for the full implementation of the terms of the State budget. There are several reasons for this. And I want to say one of the most important things. We understand that international investors and the general situation are extremely sensitive to the political campaign for elections to the Supreme Council in any country and Ukraine in this is not an exception. We realize that such events have their own mechanisms of influence with regard to paying taxes, collecting compulsory congregations, disciplining public service payments, and so forth. Since the 2nd quarter, this can be proved in figures, there has been a substantial improvement in payment discipline in Ukraine's economy, although it usually closes down the full performance of the 1st quarter job. Moreover, I think that the work that started with the preparation of the adoption of the block of economic laws, first of all from taxation, should significantly improve the situation in the 2nd half century, if the relevant decisions are still taken by the Supreme Council. The need to balance the implementation of the State budget in the current year is primarily due to the adoption of a moratorium on the adoption of bills that reduce the income of the State budget in the current year. This is absolutely necessary, as it were, for budget tasks to be successfully accomplished. At present, our joint task is to take effective measures to balance the State budget in the current year. A significant step will be taken on the road to adopting a real and transparent budget in 2003. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance. Please point it on the board. National MP Martinovski, faction of Ukrainian Agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Vaszczuk Katerina Timofevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u27	National Deputy Vaschuk. The time to ask was ten minutes, and I talked about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u28	We've listened carefully to the report, but we want to set up a faction called the "Agrarians of Ukraine" The following question. Now it's a difficult episotic situation in Europe. We have a year-on-year underfunding of anti-episotic measures in Ukraine, both last year and this year, about 60-70 percent. We know that England spent 3 billion pounds on fighting encephalopathy. God does not give us flashes of disease in Ukraine! This is not only animal health but also human health. And the second. It is not financed in recent months by the article, which is aimed at increasing the cattle’s weighty condition, at paying off interest on loans to agricultural producers in banks. The same situation in selection. There is no article in the budget for the agricultural sector of Ukraine that is funded enough. So I ask, why is this government's practice of saving up the agricultural sector? We think it's a big mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor, Catherine Timothy for asking. You know, I want to give you an honest answer, quite frankly. First of all, let's not put it this way, trying to save on a particular sector or especially on an agricultural sector, I see no government. What's more, the economic policy that I've been running, not just the government that I'm working in, but all the governments that I've actually seen, and in this session room, it's focused on supporting the village and the legislative projects, and through the VAT system, state support, and so on. So I'd like, well, just in the question and in the answer, to be, well, to some extent, some balance of validity. As far as the question is concerned. I just want to remind you that the loan repayment debt that went from last year to the current year was 17 million dollars in front of the banks. It had been extinguished, regardless of the rather difficult situation with the collection of taxes in the first quarter, it had been extinguished in the first quarter. Today, payments are made to the current ones. Of course, it's hard enough to go completely and pay off the debts of the past period and get into this year's mode, although this is really one of the priorities as the most effective mechanism, I emphasize, the most transparent and effective mechanism of support for the agricultural producer. So this is really one of the priorities, even though we have to realize that this, I think, is completely transparent from my report, the absolute priority is the social sphere: and the wages, and the financing of social expenditures. I think the session room should agree with that, too. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u30	People's MP Klimpus, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u31	Thank you. I'm asking you to pass the word to Vadim Gurov, constituency number 32, of the MP's People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u32	Thank you. Vadim Gurov, Krivbass, 32 constituency, People's Landing faction. Dear Minister, I have a very simple question. You said in your report that because of or perhaps not due to the economic experiment law, the budget lost some 900 million bracelets last year. We received an opinion from the Court of Auditors, from Simonenko, that the experiment had, in principle, given both monetary treatment and barter had eliminated, and the budget allocations had increased and increased to the Pension Fund. I think it's gonna be very fair if you say, well, how much did the pension fund go for the first one? for the first half of 2001 and the first half of 2002, when the law no longer exists. In my opinion, you think, and you insist on virtual money, that's the first question. And the second question is, how is natural disaster management financed in Zacarpatya, i.e. floods? And please, the prospect of that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. It is well known that you have been a proponent of this bill and an extension of the terms of the experiment in the metallurgical field. Because for me, that question is quite natural on your part. I want to say the next thing. If you speak conceptually, I personally don't care about the minister of finance, whether it's a village to support, whether it's a metal industry, whether it's miners or someone else. For me, there's an economy of a state that has to work in a level playing field. In order to do so, we need appropriate tax legislation that would not discredit anyone and that would not require any specific sector benefits or benefits from individual enterprises. This is such a general approach. I think he's pretty public and totally understandable. What I was talking about in my report was that the law was passed in January after the state budget of Ukraine was voted. And after he's got about 900 million dollars of revenue in the General Fund of the State. I was talking about adopting similar laws without reducing the income of the state budget general fund -- it's a violation of budgetary legislation, and the Supreme Council has to share responsibility with the government. I don't give an economic assessment as to whether it's for the metal industry or not. I ask that you treat exactly what I have reported from this rostrum. As for the financing of the flood in Zakarpat. That's your second question. The materials given to the Supreme Council contain a list of all the regulations adopted by the government for funding from the State Budget Reserve Fund administered by the Cabinet of Ministers, and all the information is there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u34	National Deputy Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich He will be followed by the national deputy Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u35	Dear Igor Olegovich, you know, in every state there are certain saints, and in Ukraine there are such saints, from the point of view of science, there is a foundational research fund. He is led by academic Kostuk, and his council includes the most outstanding scientists in all of Ukraine, he takes away the most outstanding works of the fundamental cycle of the state. The budget provides funding for 9 million. Now you've funded 970,000 out of 9 million, Igor Olegovich, 970,000 out of 9 million funded. Those great scholars, of course, will not come with worship. But I really want to ask you. You're talking about 100 percent that you've provided this funding, another thing that's very good. But I want to tell you that the Foundation for Fundamental Research is a matter of honour for Ukraine. And I'm asking you in the second half of the year to find an opportunity to fund this fund. That's actually my question to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u36	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Well, we've discussed this with you personally. You know my opinion about supporting your position. I was the only one, well, as an excuse, and as an objectivity, I wanted to remind again that in the first half of the year 320 million dollars were funded by election campaigns to the Supreme Council, local councils, local governments. Well, we can't do these exact costs, for example, after. So there's a certain amount of expenditure. But I completely share your fears. Well, I gave you my word. Yes, while we're talking, I can confirm from the high court that this has to be a level playing field.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u37	The committee will send a letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u38	Thank you. The National Deputy Turmanov, the faction of Ukraine, followed by Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u39	Dear Igor Olegovic, you know that the situation in the coal industry today is archic. You have reported here today that the first half-year budget for the coal industry is being implemented by 100 per cent. If you take the numbers, yes. But the main question that we have been asking in the first half of the year is still not resolved. The investments and funds currently planned in the budget are mainly planned for the fourth quarter. We do not introduce lava from November of last year to today. We don't have the assets today, nor do we have the wages of the miners. And today, the debt for the first half of the current salary is 150 million. That's the first question. What I would like to hear from you today: will these capital investments be transferred from quarter four to July, August, September? First question. Second question. We have the 61st budget item. Thus, the last Supreme Council made such a decision. And the regressors who are closing mines today are simply blocked by this article. Yesterday, on the Committee of Budgets, we considered this issue in order to unlock the issue. It's 21 mines, it's people who aren't funded by the restructuring budget today, even though we have the funds, or the funds that the Social Insurance Fund doesn't have the money. The Committee on Budgets therefore supported us. And we'd like to hear from you today. We need to move the funds, the funds, to structure 59 million on the budget line, where we're paying off the regressors today. Therefore, please, I would like to hear these two questions. And one last question. There is a President's mandate to pay 50 million each month's debts to miners. From what sources will this result in repayment? If there are sources of business, we know that there are no sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. I have, in fact, shown in my report that according to the current year’s schedule, the coal sector itself is funded by 100%. With regard to the introduction of lava, since the beginning of the year more than 215 million bracelets have been funded by the state of July 1, these are important things. What was a financial breakthrough, we understand the situation with the implementation of the budget in the fourth quarter of last year. A few weeks ago, I reported or read, more specifically, the implementation of the 2001 budget and the situation was clear. Of course, this should be improved. But I want to remind you of this. The income portion of the budget this year compared to last year has been increased by almost 25 percent under the State Budget Act. I'm not going to give an assessment right now whether it's realistic or not. But no year did we have a 25 - percent increase in the state budget. So what I want to say is that there are priorities in the State budget, first of all, these are social costs, these are salaries under budgetary institutions that are primarily financed. Although all the articles are funded by 100 percent, I would like to point out that in miners, all the articles are funded by 100 percent. Usually, in the second half of the year, tax collection is slightly better because there is an economic increase in the first half of the year, which gives rise to income in the second half of the year. So the annual schedule always increases a little bit by the friction, the fourth quarter. As for the possibility of getting close to funding the fourth quarter of the third quarter -- this question is now being studied I don't have a final answer right now, because there is no final report on the implementation of the first half. This is the information that I've proved, I'm stressing again, it's purely operational. And on the second question. Whether you can make a switch from one budget program, there is support for regressive payments. I have no objection. If this is supported by a budget committee, the Ministry of Finance is willing to agree, or the Ministry of Finance is prepared to make such a submission if the budget committee agrees, since the procedure in the Budget Code is the same. This is a necessary appeal to the chief budget officer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u41	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. He's being followed by a national MP, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u42	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear Mr. Minister! Here we have a draft ruling signed by several members of the Committee on Budgets, and it says that Ukraine's 2002 implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget in the current year is being carried out in the context of a slight increase in production. Well, it is clear to all that a significant or minor increase is a subjective feature of a criterion where it is significant, where it is difficult to understand. But at the Kabmin meeting, where many national deputies were present on Wednesday, the prime minister named the figures that the gross domestic product increased by 4.3 percent in the first half of the year, by 6.7 percent in June, and the volume of industrial production in the first half of the year increased by almost 6 percent, by 7 percent in June. I understand that you are speaking with operational information and a serious decision, in any case legally and morally correct, it is virtually impossible, and I would still like to ask how you view real dynamics without subjectivity. This is the 1st half-year of development of Ukraine's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u43	I'd like to say the following. Thank you for asking, first of all. We do. First. I want to remind you that growth and industrial production, and overall economic dynamics, are going to be compared to the depressive year 2001 but with the year of economic growth. Last year, about 17 percent of economic growth in industry took place. This is the basis for the economic growth of 5.6 in the current year. I don't think that's worth commenting on. This is not until a period of depression. It's up to economic growth. That's the first one. It's different. As far as making a decision is concerned. I can't usually impose my opinion on such a question, as it were, but to prove it, I think it's possible. To make decisions or conclusions, more precisely the word "outputs", based on operational information, without any reason for a really deep analysis is not just not. Morally, but not according to the legislation in force. This does not correspond to the budget code and this does not correspond to the other legislation in force in Ukraine. That's why I proved my point, and the rest, of course, to the discretion of the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u44	Thank you. People's MP Melniczuk, followed by the national deputy Taran. And we'll finish, time's up. Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u45	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Igor Olegovich, I'm here to ask you a question on the faction when you were here, why isn't the social sector in the country financed? That's the first question. You said there was no money. In my opinion, there are funds in the state. Only for the village are they gone, there are for everything else, for fireworks, for celebrations of various holidays and cities and so on--all there are, no for the village! The following question. I hope you know the situation with teachers and doctors. Why do people not get paid? That's the second question. And I'm going back to the village, can you please tell me when the village funding starts? It's in the budget. To this day, literally small amounts of money have gone to the countryside. And next. As you follow the ruling of the Supreme Council, I think that was made by Prashenkom, Winsky, King, Assadchev, to bring to justice the responsible persons of the executive branch that allowed the violation of budgetary legislation, that is, these people should already be at your suggestion or other disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. You know, I have, let's say, both civic and personal positions. I answer what I think, and I don't change my position if I'm convinced. I told you this once, I can do it again in this session room. During my report, I proved how the village was financed, and I also proved it in the accounts to Catherine Timothy. You're talking about capital investments, government centralised capital investments. In my report, I've shown you that out of the 490 million dollars planned for the current year, up to 70 million dollars have been allocated for today. These expenses are not in the first place; they are not, as it were, a socially protected article. First of all, expenses are allocated to salaries and other social expenses for the social protection of citizens that they actually receive, such as the Chernobyl pay. And that's what I proved. As far as wages are concerned. Dear National Deputies! I want to remind you that to look objectively at these things, I want to remind you of the following. Minimum wage as of December 31st last year is 118, as of January 1st of the year - 140, as of July 1st of the year - 165. The minimum wage growth in the budget area is nearly one and a half times. Is that not the best evidence that both the Supreme Council and the government are giving so much attention together to the very issue of the welfare of the people, the very question of wages? As far as the payoffs are concerned. Salaries funded 100 percent. Now we're trying, we're getting ready to fund for the first time in July an increased budget salary of 165 dollars. The only thing I want to remind you is that, for the first time in June of this year, small increases in salary were made objectively, indeed, yes, in budgetary terms, because mass teachers and doctors, especially teachers, went on vacation, not the current salary as such, but the vacation. By the end of August of the month, they will be completely terminated when vacations are completed. And I give you my word on this, because this is a very firm position both in the Ministry of Finance and in the government. Well, the last question about bringing responsibility is probably not a question for me, because the Ministry of Finance is not a forceful, so to speak, structure, it's not an investigation, it's not a person's fault. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u47	National MP Taran, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u48	Victor Taran, block of Yulia Timoshenko. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you: Please tell me, which country are you the Minister of Finance? If you are Ukraine’s finance minister and have a Ukrainian name, are you in pain and the situation with Ukrainian culture? Specifically. 25 million for the development of the Ukrainian language, the national language was programmed by the previous government, zero. Question is, where, where did this money go? Today, zero is being financed in the development of Ukrainian national language, no words are spoken of in the programming direction of the government, and no words are spoken of in terms of spirituality and culture! To compare: Russian language, which has no threat in Russia, in the dollar equivalent, the Russian government allocates 2.5 billion dollars in the dollar equivalent for its development. I mean, this is such a set of questions. And now, I want to thank Vladimir Mikhailovich for allowing the MPs to say and ask questions, this is a testimony to democracy. Absolutely serious. And so do I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to you will be asked. You said there would be a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the facts of the adoption by the District Election Commissions and the Courts of Decisions on the Prohibition of Agitation by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, on the participation in pre-election campaign, so that we could immediately vote it out, and we were just about to hand it out. And so far, everyone has not broken up, please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, set up. Thank you, everybody.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. Actually, there were three questions, and I'm going to follow them up. I'm a citizen of Ukraine, I have a Ukrainian passport, and I'm counting on being the minister of state finances, which is called Ukraine. As for my name, I do not know, but I feel that Igor is an ancient Greek name. Scandinavian? Let's make it Scandinavian. And in terms of financing a culture, that is, essentially your question. Indeed, it is a very important question. If we really want to feel like the only nation, independent of nationality, I mean, we understand what this is all about, culture wins, the most important place in this. It's perfectly understandable. It is clear that if there is a title nation in the country of Ukraine, the Ukrainian language should be both funded and studied and should reach an appropriate place. This is not the case, but it is said that there are challenges in the State Budget this year. I can tell you, or I can promise you, the next thing that's in the best, the first thing that's already been done is that there's already been a lot of funding for the development of the Ukrainian language, and it's really been easy to verify. First. Secondly, I can promise to do everything I can in line with the real situation in order to improve the financing of this particular area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u50	Thank you, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u51	Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u52	That's how we took 13 minutes! Well, now, please, there'll be powder, you'll give him that question, I beg you! Dear colleagues, we must consult. Since we have started the question, we cannot interrupt the discussion. And here's the insistence on putting up and voting this draft decision. What do you think? The project is given, why the word? We'll do it editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u53	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the project is given out, it's endured, it's without any effort here, and in fact. The only thing I'm asking is that there are Russians, the word "accept" to replace "brothers" in two places, and the first point after the word "commission" is "terminologically given the commission." And I would like to vote, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u54	Honorary colleagues, at the suggestion of the People's Deputies, agree to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council Decision 1367 "On the fact that the District Electoral Commissions and the Courts have decided not to allow the People's Deputies to participate in the pre-election campaign. Please vote. [[11:18:21]] For-189 For 189. The decision is not taken. The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I address all factions. I ask you to raise your order 1367. It's balanced, there's no political emphasis. This is neither opposed nor spoken for the majority. Mr. Igor Sharov, please pick up 1367. It's normal. Please, let's support this decision, it protects the honor of the national MP. She doesn't have any loads. If you don't mind, I'll read it, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u56	It's given away. We've all been handed out. It's on her hands. Let's vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u57	Well, they need to read. Decision "On the fact that the District Electoral Commissions and the Courts have decided not to allow the Ukrainian People's Deputies to participate in the pre-election campaign." In connection with the adoption by the District Electoral Commissions and the Courts of Appeal of the Cherkaske and Dnipropetrov regions of decisions prohibiting the popular deputies of Ukraine from participating in the electoral campaign in 85 and 201 constituencies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. Recommend to the Central Electoral Commission that the District Election Commission should be given an urgent hearing on the right of the Ukrainian People’s Deputies to participate in the pre-election campaign in favour of candidates for the Ukrainian People’s Deputies. The other one. Recommend that the Supreme Council of Justice review the actions of judges in the application of laws in the decision-making process of the Cherkaski, Dnipropetrovsk Courts of Appeal, by which the Ukrainian national deputies are recognized by the officials of the public authorities as having no right to participate in the pre-election campaign in favour of the candidates of the Ukrainian national deputy. I ask all MPs to support this project, which allows us to determine who we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 1367 on the facts. I'm asking you to calm down, dear colleagues. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on the fact that the District Electoral Commissions and the courts have decided not to allow the Ukrainian National Deputies to participate in the pre-election campaign. This is document number 1367. Please make up your mind. [[11:21:25]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We just voted to put it into the agenda. Which one in general? I'm putting it to the vote so we can now vote for this document. And then we'll vote for our own document. I bet you'll decide to vote on this document now. Please vote. [[11:22:04]] For 293 Decision taken. If there's no objection, I'll put the document in general. Please vote. [[11:22:28]] For 288 Decision taken. Thank you. The co-report is delivered by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, please. Dear colleagues, after this I ask you not to break up, we still have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u59	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, appreciating the implementation by the Government of the Ukrainian State Budget 2002 in the first six months of the current year, would like to point out that the negative trends in the implementation of the 2001 budget, which we considered a few days ago, have been significantly preserved. The real increase in gross domestic product amounted to 4.3 percent versus 9 percent during the corresponding period last year. The increase in industrial production was 5.8 percent versus 19 percent during the corresponding period last year. I would like to report to Zarubinski College that this is not juggling numbers, and this is a constant economic trend that Ukraine is entering into a slowing pace of economic growth. And today, of course, we cannot ignore these figures. First of the year, there was a negative trend in the growth of non-payments in the economy. So over the period indicated, the receivable increased by 3.8 percent, the debt payable by 3.3. Percentage. In terms of income, it's important to note that, despite the increase in gross domestic product by more than 4 percent, the rate of growth in the revenue of the state budget is much lower. This indicates a failure in tax administration. In total, in six months of the current year, the budget reached 28.6 billion dollars, accounting for 45 dollars. 3 percent of the planned for the year. The income part of the budget is disproportionate. These are the same trends we had in 2001. The general budget fund was implemented at about 90 percent of the planned, while the special fund was executed at 118.5 percent. As we can see, the trend of overturning the income of the special fund has moved from 2001 to the current year. So our decision, which we made in the budget resolution, honourable colleagues, to give up the actual existence of the special fund, is absolutely justified because the planning of the special fund is very insufficient. The plan for coming to the local budget special fund has been greatly revised. Imagine, colleagues, it's now overworked and it's 162 percent. So again, the sources, the tools, the scales that allow local administrations to push on the operators and to pump extra money out of them, we have a vivid confirmation. Special concern is the pace of filling the general fund of the state budget. Unfortunately, we don't have any figures in the information that the government gave us, but these figures account for 80 percent. Since the beginning of the year, tax poverty has grown by more than 3 billion dollars and today it has reached 9 billion. The situation is even more worrisome, given the availability of 6 billion unreparable taxes on added value, with more than 2 billion of which are time-consuming. We can't get objective information about advanced VAT from the Ministry of Finance, and I understand this position, because today the source of this information in the Kabmin structure itself is imperfect. The budget was filled disproportionately and according to sources of revenue. For example, license fees are collected in the amount of 244 percent of planned fees, over-consuming revenue is 288 percent of planned. At the same time, the return on equity dividends, i.e. the efficiency of the use of government property, is only 9.36 percent of the planned. That's how we use our state property, colleagues. No income plan has been implemented and the following types of tax payments have been paid. Income tax - no revenue of 534 million, value added tax of 274 million, import excise duty of 44 million. And also for non-taxable payments, gas transit fees, own dividends, and so forth. Expenses. Regrettably, the general budget of the State budget is currently only running at 79 percent of the current plan. The special fund is 30 98 percent of the annual plan. So we can talk about a certain level of hidden current budget deficit, although if we go to the dry statistical figures given by the government, we're going to meet the phenomenon of an artificial surplus. I mean, even the costs that come in don't seem right. The Council's objectivity can be agreed with the position of the Ministry of Finance that this is really just the current year and the Ministry of Finance and the government have the opportunity to improve the budget implementation situation by 2 halves a year and we have an improvement today because in January and February the budget was much worse. The issue continues to stand sharply in the gap between the financing of expenditure and the functional sign. Above the average level I make up, 80 percent are funded by higher government authorities, local authorities, and local governments. Defense. Public order, security. Coal sector. Less than the average level of funding is financed by health care, physical culture and sports, culture, art, housing and utilities. So I don't think this level of funding is going to be the case with health workers, and there's a serious danger of social unrest and strikes by doctors, teachers, cultural workers, or anything else. Today we discussed what assessment to give the government's budget performance, and some national MPs claim that the decisions of some members of the budget committee are said to be politicized. First, I want to inform you that this decision of the Budget Committee has been taken by consensus, i.e. no one has voted against it, and secondly, if someone satisfies a similar level of funding, I propose that I step out and explain it to those doctors who are now taking care of the Supreme Council and the government, and discuss whether our electorate and our population have the current level of funding. I think that's where they'll hear the truth, not the word equilibrist. Regrettably, at present, there is a practice where at least 30 percent of the Fund’s funds are used for financing expenses that should be declared untargeted or that could be planned for the 2002 budget. There are other disturbing facts. So the Cabinet of Ministers is showing an allocation from the Reserve Fund of 474,000 for the elimination of extraordinary situations in Brodas and Borislav, this question raised by a colleague of the Tragniboks at the Budget Committee meeting, and they're arguing, but they're no longer funded for the next month. Of course, the issue of the use of the funds of the Cabinet of Ministers’ Reserve Fund requires as much attention as possible from the legislators and should be regulated by the adoption of the law on the Cabinet of Ministers Reserve Fund. Imagine, dear fellows, today the order of use of the Reserve Fund is approved by the government itself, and the same government is using these funds. I planned it myself, I spent it myself. The Supreme Council is completely removed by the budgetary code from this process. And the Budget Committee will initiate the second session of the adoption of the relevant law and amending the budget code. I would also like to stop at other phenomena that made it more difficult to prepare for this hearing. Thus, the materials that the government had adopted after the implementation of the 2002 budget in six months were never available to the Budget Committee. Today they were distributed in the hall, and the budget committee was forced to work on the state treasury's operational data. That's why there may be some discrepancy between the figures that we have on our part with the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, honourable colleagues, a six - month government meeting was held on Wednesday. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In all three speakers, the idea was that the main culprit of the budget failure was you, your esteemed colleagues, the Supreme Council, the adoption of laws that reduce the income portion of the budget. [[Who do you think?]] As evidence, there was only one law: the continuation of the mining experiment. Dear colleagues, I've given an order to the committee secretariat. We've brought up the drafters. And I'd like to let you know. There were three bills on the extension of the mining experiment: Konovaluka, Gurova, and I'm calling your attention, my fellow dignitaries, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Konovaluk and Gurov's drafts were rejected, the Economic Committee's recommendations, the budget committee's recommendations were not adopted by passing this law through the Industrial Policy Committee, the very government law that was passed in November. He was accepted in February at the initiative of the government. Moreover, the government had the opportunity to ask the President about vetoing, and he did not take advantage of that possibility because he was the author of this law. So the honourable colleagues, the attempt to accuse the Supreme Council, the people's deputies, of the fact that we, as it were, have reduced the income portion consciously, are invalid because it was a government faction at the initiative of the government. That is why, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal, based on the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee that adopted the decision at its meeting: recommending that the Supreme Council recognize the work of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the State Budget in January - June 2002 that does not correspond to the indicators approved by the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002. In the explanatory note, we made clear the shortcomings that the government had unfortunately failed to avoid during the implementation of the 2002 budget. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is invited to take urgent measures to remedy these shortcomings and report to the Supreme Council on the state of implementation of the State Budget for 8 months of the current year, together with the 2003 State Budget Project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, please sign up for questions to the head of the Committee on Budgets. Please point it on the board. People's MP Melniczuk, PPE faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u61	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, the question was not, I was asking questions about the responsibility of the heads of the district administrations. And I think the committee made the right decision. But I gave it to the finance minister, who said he had no influence. So I have the following idea, and what does the minister of finance have to control, how does the budget go, and where does the money go? For that matter, I have a question for you. Since such matters do not have a minister, do you have such weights, and will you be consistent in carrying out the decision that we will take today because we will support the committee’s decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u62	Thank you. First of all, I thank you for supporting the committee's ruling. It's different. Such authority is vested in the Supreme Council today. She has the opportunity to contact the Attorney General's Office on the basis of the information that we will consider with you in the Budget Implementation Report, based on the records of the Court of Auditors, which are systematically not taken by the Attorney General's Office, the law enforcement authorities to respond. And we are confident that, today, both the budget committee and the Supreme Council as a whole have the opportunity to contact the law enforcement authorities to bring to justice the responsibility of the officials responsible for the report and for the records of the Court of Auditors. Regrettably, at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets yesterday, only one national MP specifically asked us not to hold anyone responsible for numerous budget violations. The Committee on Budgets rejected this view and insisted on the principle of these shameful phenomena that we have today in the implementation of the budget. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u63	National Deputy Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u64	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear Peter Alexiovich, I have such a question for you. The Minister, speaking here, may have spoken, or may have said by accident that our people behind the ban were obliged to thank the Government for thinking that the Government was only thinking of the good in order to raise wages each year or hour. Yesterday I had to take part in an action around Kiev, where there are a lot of people, and I want to say that these people don't want to listen to the organizers of the action anymore, but to say that the time is coming, and that time will soon come, that they won't save the fat doors of the Supreme Council and others from angry people about their situation. I have a question. You will see, and what your point of view, how soon will you substantially increase the wages of the people of Ukraine, since it is 140 bracelets, 180 bracelets, not more.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u65	I thank you for asking. The question was asked in Russian. Let me answer that. Thank you. With your permission, I'll be Ukrainian. Dear colleagues! I support your concern about the state of funding and the state of rise in minimum wage levels, but the Council's objectivity should be said that when the State Budget Act was adopted for the current year, precisely following the insistence of the Supreme Council, the minimum wage was increased from 118 dollars, as you remember, which was in 2001, to 141 dollars in the first half and, if I am not mistaken, to 165 for the second half of the government under the State Budget Act. So those social pay increases that are to be made in the current year, they claim that we have a real opportunity to increase the total payout, a total wage fund of between 20 and 25 percent. If the government has done this since July 1st, I think it's going to be a major support, but it's a cause for concern else, that in the government's draft budget resolution, which today was so fiercely defended by some national MPs, it has been clearly stated that no additional funds to raise wages in 2003 are foreseen. And the increase in real income will only take place by reducing taxes on the income of individuals, which, frankly, is also extremely dangerous to social peace and stability and the state. That's why, at the suggestion of the budget committee, we rejected this rule and included in the budget resolution a proposal, a recommendation and a commission on the social orientation of the budget and the priority of raising wages, primarily for budgeters and the least protected groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u66	National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of Ukrainian Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, you remember that in the last year’s budget call for the year 2002, there were quite a number of disputes that would divide who would agree to the financing of the capital investment. Finally, it was concluded that the Cabinet of Ministers would take the appropriate decision. Such a decree, No. 551 of April 19, was adopted, but unfortunately, the financing of the major social areas today, first and foremost in the country, is not going. So who controls, why doesn't the budget run in this part? Does the committee control whether the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers is being implemented? Please, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. This question really, really is extremely acute in all areas. Because it seems that capital investment is some source of income instead of being, first of all, a position for the development of the country and, secondly, an extremely important thing to solve the social problems of individual regions. In fact, public investment is almost unfunded today, and the order that has been proposed for two years now is that the government itself decides which funding objects that the Supreme Council has not, I think, are being eliminated. And in the budget, when the State Budget Act was adopted for 2002, I personally voted against the faction that I was leading at the time. Sadly, it was carried out. And for today, you've heard the figures that state capital investment is almost unfunded. We affirm and draw the attention of the session room, you people's deputies, to the fact that this is a disproportionate principle of budget financing is unacceptable, and that's why we recommend that we consider the government report today, even though we are having a serious discussion with the minister of finance about what seems illegal. I strongly disagree with this because the Budget Code does not explicitly prohibit or declare that the issue is being considered, it is written: not later than 35 days, and the rule of the Rules expressly states that we should consider the implementation of the budget this year in July, and it is in order for them to be able to draw certain conclusions from our hearings and correct positions. That's why we've drawn attention to the budget committee, to the inadmissibility of not financing government spending, because the local budgets in this article have frozen the funds. This leads to the inefficient use of local budgets, and the government budget costs are not coming, and we crawl into the longevity, the theft of what was built, and so on. This is also an inefficient use of budget funds. I support this question, and I want to prove to you that the next time the budget committee will insist on the priority of financing rural capital and the preservation of the 30 per cent standard of sending 30 per cent of capital to the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u69	National Deputy Kaletnik, faction of the European Choice. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that when the session is closed, the Prime Minister of Ukraine will be present and there will be a broadcast. He's on UT-1 now, he'll be on TV. I'd like to take that into account. People's Deputy Collegiate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u70	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for your word. I'd like to say first. That for 4 years I was the head of the district council, and I was on guard for the purpose of using the budget, and I know very well how much punishment those people who are using the power given to them are using it in reverse: more for business than for financing the social and budgetary sphere as a whole. So I support, Peter Alexiyovich, today’s flaming talk from this rostrum in favor of financing the social sphere of our medical, educational, and so forth. But I think that by making such important decisions and claiming such serious conclusions and decisions, we should get to know and learn these documents. To this day, I want to say that the budget committee was going to be in a hurry. The papers weren't processed, the vote was only held, thank God that we have the miss quorum of our Katya, and otherwise we might not vote. So really, I was also on the committee today on that side that as information today you can take to mind what we've said here on previous operational data. But for serious reasons, we have not worked hard enough on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u71	Thank you. I didn't hear, frankly, the question from the respectable Gregory Mikolaiovich, but the thief and the hat are on fire because it's our honorary colleague Kaletnik who voted. has made a proposal to delete. I didn't call him during the performance, but he turned to it himself. So that we don't attract. I'm sorry, I saw. ..were not called to account, but I'm surprised to hear this talk because you, your honorary colleague, voted in favour of the Committee of Budgets. Ah, you're held up. That a truly absolute majority, apart from a colleague of Kaletnik, supported this decision. We have worked very closely to this day, and the position of the budget committee is clearly defined in terms of social orientation. To date, we must uphold the budget code. Gregory Mikolayovich, you asked a question. Aren't you interested in the answer? We had to set clear priorities for the government's work for the third quarter and give priority to drafting the State Budget Act for 2003. And the Committee on Budgets may not have had the opportunity, and the Committee on Budgets has worked very carefully on those figures that were given to the Treasury, and is responsible for every conclusion that is proposed to you today in the draft decree. The draft decision was fully supported, and more than that, he was in agreement with the Ministry of Finance representative, taking into account their proposals, and that's why we think that this project can be adopted in general, a draft budget execution order for six months. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u72	Yavorowski’s national deputy, and time is running out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u73	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Peter Alexiovich, I can't help feeling like we're in an absurd theater. Now it's clear that our budget estimates for a year are going to be even sharper than they were before. And I'm absolutely convinced that it won't have any effect either in the first case or in the second. I used to beat Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko’s budgetable sum for his district. He wrote angry resolutions about the money being allocated to the treasury, for about a year I walked with those resolutions, and then it became clear that these resolutions on the human eye actually had to be taken note of by Paul Ivanovich. And that was the first time that our policy was introduced into our government the notion of manual governance. Today we are in exactly the same situation. In Novoyavorysk, in my district, practically, there was a trans-European environmental disaster, there was no money to prevent it, there was no money, there were only letters, letters, and letters. I have a specific question: how can we help our family colleagues in the government, it's such a hard job: it's all done by hand, by hand, by hand, by hand, by hand, by hand. How do you help them mechanize it, heal it, maybe it's their hands that hurt people?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u74	I thank you for asking. I think the help should be that the budget should be adopted in a balanced way. It should be that the approach to budget adoption and budget implementation should be professional. That's why when we either accept unrealistic budgets or the government doesn't execute budgets, we're actually creating an interest in transferring them into manual controls: so I want to, for example, give them to law enforcement agencies, so I don't want to give them culture, for example. And that's why when we're asked, when asked, why does the government, why disproportionate funding is going on, we're trying to give social figures, we're trying to give social figures, we're looking at another priority argument. My position is: The Budget Act has been passed, it has to be implemented. If the budget is not being implemented, please exit with a proposal for a sequencer. Do not remove the Supreme Council from the budgetary process. And make the prioritization process public. The only way to do so is by involving the national deputies of the Supreme Council. If someone doesn't like it, if anyone sees another way, it's a non-democratic path. Democracy is said to be a bad thing, but nothing like history has ever come up with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u75	Thank you. The presentation was made by the national deputy Voysh, the faction of the SDPU. He will be followed by a national MP, Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, summarizing the implementation of Ukraine’s State Budget in the first half of this year, should be noted that this has taken place under conditions of overall economic growth. In particular, between January and June 2002, there was an increase of 4 percent of gross domestic product against the corresponding period last year. Deflation is 11.8 percent relative to December 2001. On the other hand, in the first half of the government budget, it is 43.4 percent of the annual plan. So you can talk about not doing the planned performance over the reporting period. The government’s general budget’s shortfall in income is over 1.2 billion dollars, mainly due to the failure to implement the income tax plan for enterprises and the excise collection from imported goods into Ukraine. In addition, there is a failure to implement the plan against payment for natural gas transit through the territories of Ukraine, dividends on shares of state-owned households. While the government has not yet made a decision, regardless of the corresponding commission, to pay off the debt owed to the Shrimp before the budget for the recalculation of dividends on the shares of this Society. And that's almost 150 million dollars. Overall, income performance has been found to be more successful at the local level and the highest performance rates are based on income sources that are included in local budgets. A rather tense situation is the implementation of the state budget general fund, which is controlled by the State Tax Administration, as tax debt has increased by 3.8 billion dollars since the beginning of the year. This, in turn, resulted in only 85.6 percent of the income mentioned above. The adoption of a number of laws contrary to article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code following the adoption by the Supreme Council of the State Budget Act 2002 resulted in a budget loss of over 450 million dollars. Now, regarding the spending portion of the State Budget. In January-June of this year, the expenditure of the State Budget General Fund is funded at 16 billion 277 million dollars, 21.6 per cent more than in the corresponding period of last year. However, the figure indicated a 12 - percent failure to implement the planned expenditure during the reporting period. I'd like to draw your attention, Your Honor, to the protected articles set out in article 21 of the State Budget Act. As a result of the approval of these articles, we have today’s funded social benefits, representing 99.8 percent of the plan for the first half of this year. That is why it is important to provide for protected articles in the State Budget Act 2003 that will primarily cost salaries, pensions, scholarships, and other social benefits. Regarding subsidies for expenditure, benefits and subsidies to the population for electricity, natural gas, heat, water, and communications services, it should be noted that the expenditure is not fully funded by the planned expenditure for the first half of the year. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the increase in accounts payable by the general budget fund of the State Budget, which at the beginning of the year is accompanied by an increase of about 2 billion dollars and today amounts to about 2 billion dollars. There is also a tendency to increase debt from local budgets. In view of the situation surrounding the implementation of the revenue portion of the State Budget General Fund, it is quite clear that if the cash indemnity is not available soon, the need for amendments to the State Budget Act 2002 regarding the review of the expenditure portion of the budget will be urgently needed for the purpose of balancing the budget. But I think there's still enough reserve in the implementation of this year's budget that the government hasn't used or used in full. This includes the execution of individual assignments and tasks defined directly in the State Budget Act 2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u77	Thank you. The word is given by Nikolaynko Stanislav Mikolaiovich. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u78	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that the Committee on Education and Science is following up on the situation that has arisen with the implementation of the State budget of Ukraine in the first half of the year. And first of all, let me start by saying that we want to point out a few contradictions that we think we need to take down today with the budget committee and the Ministry of Finance. We have contradictions today, which are set up in the Code of Budgets, which is primarily about financing district education institutions: stations of young technicians, stations of naturalists, children's sports schools. They use them, these services, these facilities are now used by all the children in the area, for example, and they are financed from a specific local budget that raises the question of why this is the case today. Next. And today this issue will be discussed, and I would like the support of Vladimir Mikhailovich. Our academics, they're not the money managers today, it's completely contrary to article 15 of the Science and Technology Act, because they're self-governance. And today we have this diagram: money is allocated, let's say, to the Treasury, then passed on to some ministry, and then the ministry passes on to the academy, and then to the university. Why a chain that sometimes ends when the recipient does not receive it at all or a significant period of time? We have a lot of claims today, on our committee, to the budget at large. In the first half of the year, only 94 percent of the planned allocations under the general education fund were made. We want to say that aside from wages, scholarships, we don't actually get the basic amount of money. I would like to ask Igor Olegovich to point out that we have almost 3 million underfunding, first of all, for food payments. We don't have enough clothes for orphans -- that's another three and a half million. Acquisition of textbooks, Igor Olegovich, 22 million I would like to say that the provisions of the law of article 57 are not being implemented with regard to the supplementary payments to teaching representatives, as well as the payment of utilities to rural workers. I would also like to say that in the first half of the year, only 83 percent of the planned allocations in the general science fund are made. The main cost here is the payroll, and virtually all the needs associated with scientific activity are not financed. Debt paid only by the municipal services of science institutions amounts to 21 percent. To finish what I'd like to ask. If you'll excuse me for a moment. Igor Olegovich, please, and Vasil Vasilovich. An urgent request from the professions and all the educated. September 1st. There's an agreement between the Minosvets, Minfin and the Supreme Council, especially our committee, that the 460 million that we've increased during the budget vote was initially the April 1 agreement, then from May 1st, and we ask, let's at least increase the salary of the pedagogical workers from September 1st to September 1st, because the university can't get 170 G's, by 5 G's more than a technician who hasn't studied anywhere. And utility services to peasants, rural teachers. These are the issues plus the funding of science we are. And the maintenance of orphans. We didn't add 4 million orphans to the summer. Well, an orphan can't eat in a school or a high school without money. I'd like to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u79	National Deputy Carmazin. He will be followed by a national MP, Mokchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I am pleased with the fiery performances that were made today, including Peter Prashenko, including the minister of justice. I'm very unhappy with the draft decision. We are a political body, and where you see the solution that is proposed by political subtext. It says here: Consider it not to match the figures approved by the Supreme Council. It can be said that it pleases us or does not satisfy us. I'm not satisfied with what's going on, and I'm going to add a determination and write "unsatisfactory," and then one that fits the decision. It's up to the budget committee. Now, as for the speech of my previous speaking colleague Nikolayn, he has a heartache. Mr. Nikolayenko, I understand that orphan children's clothing is unfunded, medicine for the sick, including tuberculosis, AIDS, hepatitis, unfunded, the need for scientific activity is not funded. However, on June 20, 2002, the President’s decree to increase the social protection of state tax officials is being issued, which is intended to increase the allowance for special conditions of employment, qualifications, and the intensity of 100 percent of the salary, taking into account the special duty allowance, and so on, twice the salary. Dear friends, what's going on? Two times today, doctors are less funded than the industry’s average wage. It's just that the law is being violated. The same thing under the Education Act, and we're talking about that we can allow some category of officials to double with one decree to raise wages. Does Minfin have one at all? How could this be signed? How was it possible to report here today and not say anything about it, to give an assessment?Oh, my God! Now let's move on. Today, you and I are at risk of the general existence of the State of Ukraine because of failure to comply with article 124 of the Constitution, according to which judicial decisions are approved by courts in the name of Ukraine and are required to be implemented throughout Ukraine. In spite of the obligations imposed by the Constitution on Kabmin, the government, disregarding the possibility of executing judicial decisions at the expense of the special and reserve funds of the budget, has created a shameful and irresponsible attitude toward the solution of this problem and has created a public debt to citizens for damages to the material and moral damage caused by the actions of the public authorities. Think about it, the U.S. Treasury says and says that more than 2,000 decisions have been taken since 1999 and 2000, and 2001 and 2002 have not been implemented by the courts. Thus, we can come under sanctions that fall under Article 6 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which, according to the case law of the Court, is automatically followed by the failure of the State to execute the decision of the national court. Is that a problem for the government? This should be expressed there in a decision of the Committee on Budgets or not. Because they're undermining the state system and bankrupting the state of Ukraine in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u81	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u82	That's why I'm finishing up, Vladimir Mikhailovich. If only my speech had ended, these displeasures that are being done in the state would have ended! So I would ask the Budget Committee not to stand outside and not to say that you're not being given where the Reserve is going, but to demand this and to demand responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u83	Thank you. People's MP Mokchan. He will be followed by a national MP, Migovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u84	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the government! Undoubtedly, the sad picture that we see in this year's figures goes against those daily reminders of GDP growth, well-being, and fairy tales about the progress of our state in the economic realm. If we're looking at it, I'm representing the Committee on Culture here, the saddest painting that's actually reflected in the cultural sphere, where the prescribed limits were this year in such a way that all the main highlights are placed on the fourth quarter. At the beginning of the year, 5 to 7 percent of cultural finance. Given that the average wage of a culture worker is 149 dollars, you can see for yourself what a misery this extremely important area is in our country. I will not make a comparison with the post-Radians states, or Azerbaijan, even with the beggars proved by Georgia during the Civil War, where percentages are much higher than budgeted and appropriate funding is actually happening. I'm not talking about that state that actually occupied the information and cultural space of Ukraine today, I mean Russia. Ukraine has turned into an offshore zone for cultural goods, and for sale, Russian, I mean. Why those principles are now in force, as they were yesterday. If we close our eyes, I don't know how we can talk about the perspective of Ukraine and the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian state. After all, spiritual health provides the only guarantee that we may not succumb to these erosion processes that are taking place throughout the world. Protecting culture is an immune system. And that's why, Igor Olegovich, I'm addressing you. I ask you once, and twice, and a third time to have, and after holding a committee meeting, we have asked that we move from fourth quarter to third quarter at least any baby to fund. This is essential, because today people leave culture, leave their jobs, they seek a place for themselves to survive, but this is how the most important is being destroyed -- the foundation of our spiritual state. And I would ask you to do all of these shifts anyway. Because we understand that the Sequester will be indispensable. And the fourth quarter is the neighborhood where everything about culture will be cut off. And they mentioned here the language issue and the financing, which is described here, which is, again, still falling under the cut, under the scissors. Do whatever it takes to initiate this process of shifting the emphasis in the humanitarian sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u85	National MP Mihovich, Communist faction. And the list of those who want is exhausted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u86	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, national deputies, guests. As you know, the natural disasters of a few years ago caused only material damage to our region by nearly one and a half billion dollars. In recent times, however, flood management and preventive work have virtually ceased. Thousands of people are waiting for help, constructions are being destroyed, and buildings are being built, and predestination forests are being destroyed, Tissa and Already again polluting not only Ukraine but also Hungary, Slovakia, and other neighbouring countries. The real environmental security situation in the Tissi area is critical. This was recalled once again by the days when it was contaminated with heavy metals from the neighboring Romanian province of Cluj. This year, according to the plan, 24 billion dollars were planned to do flood control work at the expense of the funds from the State budget. In fact, about 300,000 of the anticipated limits came in January-April, and they went to part-time debt payments for last year's work. The question of financing anti-environmental measures at transitional sites remains uncertain. which were previously carried out by the environmental protection fund. Moreover, the government has a project to shut down the government commission and headquarters from the destruction of the Zakartat disaster, which has been translated into local authorities. So we asked the MPs, a group of Deputies from the Carpathians, once and for all, were personal appeals, but the question is said to not be solved. Not much is needed: to restore systematic financing of flood management, a government order of 24 million dollars, and 5 million to complete work on 11 transitional sites. We ask the government to take matters under control because it is not only about environmental security in the Tissia region but also about our image, our commitment to our neighbors in central Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the issue of the government's report on the state of implementation of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's 2002 budget and the use of the funds of the Cabinet of Ministers' reserve fund in the current year. Obviously, we will not be able to make decisions today, but we will consider that when we make decisions in the next budget hearings. There are no others.? Do you have an offer? Pavlovsky’s national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to propose this as a whole decision on all issues. Since we cannot vote and make decisions on today’s issues except one, and when we do not make them, they will not automatically go to the next session. And we were given a list of where there are no such questions. So they're hanging out. So I suggest that you assign a protocol secretariat, a machine, to these issues that are being considered today, and that we may not be able to reach what are included today in the agenda of the plenary meetings, so that they can be included in the general list for the next session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u89	Thank you. I think that's what we're going to do, and that's the right thing to do. Dear colleagues! I'd like to consult you in this way. We agreed that at 12:30 a.m. the Prime Minister would be present. We have 20 minutes to close the session in an orderly fashion. I propose to consider one more question, to discuss a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. The committee's offering to move it, isn't it? Then the next question. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity. Vladimir Vasilovich Stecenko, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, will be the spokesman for the government. How much time do you need to report? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity is being introduced. The proposed bill deals with the legislative regulation of the implementation of the decisions of the United Nations. To date, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not have the appropriate authority to enforce the United Nations Security Council resolution. So, for example, what you're talking about. The definition of domestic external economic entities by which the State provides assistance in the registration of the UN Security Council 661 as national buyers of Iraqi oil under the UN oil exchange programme. The adoption of the bill improves the legal framework for ensuring implementation of the UN Security Council resolution on the application of economic sanctions. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Is there a question for the reporter? None. Thank you, sit down, please. From the committee of National Deputy MacKeenko, he is the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Agriculture, Property and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and members of the government! The idea set in your proposed bill is already It's been a long time. Ukraine had its representation with the United Nations since the Soviet Union. Since gaining independence, Ukraine has greatly increased its status in the eyes of the world society as a nation with appropriate opportunities for international security. The UN Security Council, in accordance with the Statute, has broad powers, including the right to determine the existence of any threat to peace, any violation of peace or act of aggression and to make recommendations or to decide what measures should be taken to support or restore international peace and security. In addition, the UN Security Council is authorized to decide what measures that are not related to the use of the Armed Forces should be taken to implement its decisions. It means a complete or partial cessation of economic relations, such as Iraq. Under the UN Statute, members of the United Nations agree to comply with the decisions of the Security Council and to implement them. Since, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the organization and the provision of external economic activities by Ukraine is placed on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the legislative cycle of such powers is not definitively defined, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not actually have the authority to enforce the decisions of the UN Security Council. The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments has analysed the current status of implementation of UN Security Council decisions on the application of economic sanctions and believes that the bill should be adopted as a basis for first reading and further developed for second reading, with a view to preventing possible errors and inconsistencies between domestic and international legislation and terminology. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council also supports this bill. The committee proposes, taking into account this problem, to adopt a bill as a basis and to work on possible proposals and observations by the legislators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u93	Thank you. Is there a question? National MP Martinyuk, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please tell me you support the committee. And let the first reporter hear it because, unfortunately, I don't have a draft law on my hands, but there's a chicken that we haven't actually met. What is it? The draft law, which the prime minister has instituted, speaks of one thing. The comparative table, which is set up by the Minister of Economics, adds quite another, which is not in the prime minister's form. I repeat, we meet for the first time in practice. So please tell me that you support: what did the Prime Minister put in the draft law in the amendment to article 9 or what the Ministry of Economics said in the comparative table? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u95	The committee supports its decision. I'll read it. "Change the law. amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activities" It's an old table. "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is taking steps to ensure the rational use of the funds of Ukraine's State Monetary Fund." We're complementing. "Ensures the implementation of the Resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations and other international organizations."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u96	Do you still have a question, Adam Ivanovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u97	I did not find out, but once again I stress that the committee supports what the Ministry of Economics wrote. The Ministry of Economics had no right to interfere with what the Cabinet of Ministers was offering. Because the Ministry of Economics is not the subject of a legislative initiative. The Cabinet of Ministers is the subject of the legislative initiative. The Cabinet of Ministers may represent only the Prime Minister or, in the absence of him, the one who performs his duties. So once again, the Ministry of Economics had no right to add to what the Cabinet of Ministers had accepted. The Cabinet of Ministers in the draft amendments to the law, article 9, recorded a different edition and, accordingly, the Committee of Ministers does not have the right to confirm what the Ministry of Economics did not have the right to make. So please take a closer look, for otherwise we will not support such amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u98	Okay. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your consideration. And I want to remind you that the committee is headed by Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, a member of the faction. Very good, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u99	Thank you. Is there anyone who would like to speak on this matter? Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk is right in the sense that the Ministry of Economics has expanded the formulations that the Cabinet of Ministers has introduced and then there are two variations. We don't know which one to go to. This is what I would like to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers and also of the Committee, which should be clear about standards and rules. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, the decision will take place at the second session. We have a few more minutes to consider the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of payment of taxpayers' obligations to budgets and government trust funds? Circled by Mikola Petrovich, please. Dear colleagues, we agreed. It's convenient for the Prime Minister to take part in our work at 12.30 p.m. in closing the job, and he'll be right there, and then we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, you have been brought to your attention by the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on how to pay taxpayers' obligations to budgets and government trust funds. I'd like to say one thing right away, saving time. This bill does not provide any new taxes or new conditions of write-off, virtually nothing, except that it provides the only mechanism by which those taxes can be written down, those debts that were due in 1999 and the schedule were due in 2000, but were not made in connection with the fact that there was no mechanism to write down the gods in the first place when the wages were paid, not in the form of money, or in the form of a commercial loan, or in the form of loans. The special feature was that, on the one hand, there would be a creditor's debt on the payroll, on the accounting basis, accounted for purely in the accounts, and neither the taxpayer nor the pension fund, nor anyone else, and on the other hand there was a receivable on unreturned so-called loans or commercial loans that the Ministry granted to pay off the wages. At the same time, there is a tax debt. This mechanism was laid down in our law, so many businesses and organizations today have artificially incurred debts due to the fact that they were forced to pay off this debt on wages, to carry out accounting, in connection with the fact that in May 2001 the President’s decree on additional measures was issued, to the prosecutor’s office regarding managers of enterprises and organizations for non-payment of wages. This bill provides an opportunity and provides a mechanism to write off the debt that was accrued in 1999. And if the enterprises did, some did -- there was a mechanism, others didn't do it -- there was no mechanism. So this is a project that restores justice in cancelling this debt in the year 99 and in the year 2000.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u101	Thank you. Questions, please. No questions? From the committee. The committee supports, Your Honor. Is there any question of discussing this? No, it's not. So the discussion and the consideration of the issue is over, and with this document we're going to be determined at the second session. Let us further consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on Liability for Electricity Violations. Reporter: Undersecretary of State of the Department of Fuel and Energy, Adriychuk Yuri Andriyovich. How long do you need? Please come to the rostrum. How much time do you need? Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u102	Your Honor, gentlemen of the people's deputies. The draft law, which is proposed to you for consideration, is designed to amend the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine. This project is designed in accordance with the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. The draft law is proposed to supplement the Criminal Code of Ukraine with article 188."Stolen by willful use of electrical or thermal energy," and in article 194, "Energy damage". The establishment of criminal responsibility for these activities calls for their social danger. The arbitrary use of electricity or heat, as well as damage to electricity objects, not only harm electricity companies and energy consumers, but ultimately adversely affect the economy and energy security of the State. According to article 1 of the Energy, Electric or Heat Act, goods are for sale. Energy has physical, economic, and legal characteristics, i.e. it has a unit of measure, a price, is supplied on the basis of a contract. The theft of electrical and thermal energy is suggested as a separate type of crime due to the fact that electricity and heat are special, different from other types of goods. There are also ways to kidnap her: to use her self - willedly without instruments of accounting, or as a result of her deliberate harm. The project that you are invited to consider is designed to establish criminal responsibility when large - size or particularly large - scale property damage is caused as a result of the theft of electricity. In addition, an explanation of these sizes is added. The analysis of electrical theft in recent years has shown a steady trend toward an increase. Yes, if 190 thefts were detected in 1998, 223 in 2000 and 306,000 in 2001 were stolen. And the analysis of unsanctioned, unaccounted for electricity consumption can be concluded that the annual amount of electricity theft, you just listen to this figure, the respectable, industrial and domestic consumers, is over 7.2 billion kilowatt-hours for almost 800 million dollars. So that's the amount of electricity that's not paid off, and that's not the fuel that it's made of. In order to produce this amount of electricity, nearly 3 million tons of coal are needed. At least. A dangerous offense is damage to electrical objects. It is therefore proposed that the Criminal Code be supplemented by article 194. The need to assign responsibility for damage to electrical objects to an article rather than to apply the existing one is that article 194 provides responsibility for the deliberate destruction or damage of other people’s property. The article provides for responsibility for deliberate damage or destruction of electrical energy objects if these actions lead to a disruption of the normal operation of these objects. Thus, in just five months 2002, more than 50 million dollars have been lost as a result of the theft of electrical objects, but that is not even the case. It is a terrible fact that during the last three years, nearly 80 children have been killed each year in attempts to steal energy assets. Since the beginning of this year, 76 people have died, eight of them children. In connection with the addition of the Criminal Code, the new articles suggest appropriate changes to the Criminal Procedure Code. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Please support the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u103	Questions, please. People's MP Melniczuk. After that, the national MP of Vernigor and Carmazin, please. National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u104	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I understand that the responsibility of those who steal electricity is needed. But please tell me, Yuri Andriyovich, who will be responsible for the fact that in the last few years citizens have been receiving VAT for paying for electricity?Oh, my God! It's not a legal draw from the citizens. Who's it gonna be? Whether we should make changes to the Criminal Code here or rather, those people who rob our citizens to come and say, "It's my fault." That's the question. Is it legal today to withdraw from VAT citizens for paying for electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u105	Thank you for asking. Answer. Today, when it comes to paying citizens for electricity, it's actually paying for VAT. This payment is provided for by the relevant decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and by the valid legislation of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u106	National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u107	Dear reporter! Vernigore, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Tell me, from whose permission or advice it is, or it's your duty to the service, that whole brigades in the villages, the hordes are breaking into the houses, and they're starting to look for different ones, whether there's any other counters or not, they're stealing energy from the basements, attics. The grandmothers are already getting baptized so that they can break through, because they make them put new counters each year, and they pay for it. Grandma doesn't even know what she's getting paid for. And whoever lets you break into this house, I don't know what else to call them, just to be careful. Please provide an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u108	Please. I'm reporting. You asked a few questions. That's why we'll be fine. I'll tell you what. As far as replacing or installing new counters is concerned, it does not take place at the expense of the consumer, the population. I'm talking about the population at the expense of an energy-efficient company. So if you have such facts, I would ask for the facts. We'll sort it out and put it in proper order.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u109	Thank you. National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u110	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine," the Party Protectors of the Motherland. Dear reporter, please tell me what has interfered and what prevents you from qualifying the actions you are talking about to complete the 188 prim. Article 192 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that property damage is done by deception or abuse of trust. I can't figure out how to use the term for energy, the word "kidnapping." I can't understand it as one of the authors of the Criminal Code. And I can't understand how we can put this today without profiling committees, legal committees to address this issue, because today it's being proposed with the Fuel and Energy Committees and nuclear policy and security?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u112	Thank you for asking. I'm talking about, Your Honor Yuri Anatoliyevich, that electricity is, in fact, a product that can't be associated with other types of goods. But this is a product that has a price to pay for accounting devices. Therefore, we consider it appropriate and ask you to support the adoption of appropriate amendments to the 188 and 194 articles of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u113	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, Ukrainian agrarians
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u114	Katerina Vaschuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. I want to ask you that. Don't you think it's necessary to make another change that would make the mutual responsibility of those who have stolen electricity, you who don't pay, but also the energy industry, if they violate the terms of the contract for no good reason, shut down electricity when they come up, without warning or shutting down the whole village, despite the fact that more than half of the people pay neatly for electricity. Farms are excluded in peak times when cows are fed, when the bread and its land are gathered in streams, and so on. How, then, can such mutual responsibility for wrongdoing be foreseen in the Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u115	Thank you for asking. What you're talking about really didn't have much room. Today, all these issues are dealt with and legalized by a 475th decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which prohibits doing what you've been talking about. Today, both administrative and criminal responsibility will be vested in such activities. If for failure to implement the 475th decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was adopted literally two months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u116	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you, sit down, please. People's MP Panasovski from the committee and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u117	Given the lack of time, I will be extremely brief to induce the MPs to vote in favour of this law immediately. Over the last three and a half years, I'm going to bring in the figures, and I'm going to open up, and more than 84,000 kilometers of cable and cable products have been stolen. 960 power transformers were assembled, more than 1,100 tons of transformer oil were stolen, and more than 270 tons of colourful metal was stolen. In the last year alone, our total losses amounted to 36 million bracelets. In 3.5 years, 50,000 cases of theft. In the past year alone, 192 people were killed in kidnapping, 18 of them children. This year, 78 people, including 11 children, were killed by operational data. Thus, a critical situation, and this law is also intended to establish responsibility, criminal responsibility for the theft and destruction of the industry, which is a potential for stability in the Power. The Committee has considered in detail all the proposals proposed and requests you to support this law and adopt the bill. We have built on the need to improve and systematize the existing legal field in order to create conditions for the normal, civilized functioning of the energy industry. I ask the Supreme Council to support the decision of the Committee and to adopt the bill on first reading. Our annual losses are estimated at a generation, at the loss of a generation of total capacity of 4,000 megawatts, are four atomic blockers. Rate such losses. This must be stopped, these actions must be stopped. They can only be intercepted by this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u118	Did you have a question, National Deputy Drogunzov? Thank you, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u120	Thank you. National Deputy Drogunzov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u121	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! Friends of my national deputies! I think that this law, regardless of the terrible numbers that have been cited here, cannot be adopted. If we adopt this law, we're turning the Ministry of Energy into another force force. There is already a customs service, there is already a tax service, there are traditional power ministries. Now it's going to be the Ministry of Energy. You'll remember, the following changes will provide for the Ministry of Energy to grant operational search rights. Have you seen this law? He envisions stealing electricity from prison by 10 more years. Did you hear that or not? That's the first one. Second, half of Ukrainian society under this law will be in prison! [[B in m in s a l in]] He's going to be in jail because everyone else is stealing electricity. Third, should we fight this evil? Should I? Yes, we do, but not by such methods. Another mechanism needs to be found, and economic means must be used to carry out this fight. I think this bill should be rejected. In the absence of time, I will no longer talk about my intentions and thoughts here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to conclude this consideration. National MP Carmazin insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. I insist on the presentation, which is the motive. I've been working on the Criminal Code for three years, and I want to remind you that the author of article 188 of the Hennady Vasiliev Criminal Code is sitting in front of you. And it says "kidnapping by dismantling and other means of power grids, cable lines and their equipment." First, second, and third parts of the article. It's completely engrossed in what we've been told, agitating that how many miles have been stolen. This is provided by a valid Criminal Code. As for the other suggestions that have been made, it is a matter of two articles: 188 prm. and 194 pm. In case of reception. That the social danger of stealing thermal power is no question of what the question is. But what is kidnapping? This is the removal of someone else’s property by theft, robbery, or robbery. Can this term be used for energy? Well, it's not always possible. It's going to be self-use, whatever it is, but it's not kidnapping. And when the law is adopted conceptually in the first reading at the level of concept, we're with you, what can we agree with this ignorance? We can't agree with that. Next. According to the classic terminology of the criminal right of abduction, it's a deliberate illegal, free removal of property from foreign possession. As a result, this property benefits others. With regard to the other article he proposes, 194. I was asking if it could be formulated differently. We believe that the proposed proposal to supplement the Criminal Code with article 194 is intended to be a special norm, since article 194 covers all cases of deliberate destruction or damage to property of all forms of property, including electrical objects. The proposal is to supplement the Criminal Code of 194. is the result of a narrow - minded approach to the protection of property. And according to the logic of this approach, it will have to be supplemented by articles that provide responsibility for the destruction or damage of chemical, rail, communications, military, hydrotechnical, and so on. I want everyone to do their job. The Committee on Legal Policy questioned the inadmissibility of these changes and pointed out that such a law could not be enacted. In the first reading, it is not possible to adopt such a law from a professional point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. As for the decision we're going to make in the second session. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of May 14, this year, "The organization of the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" today, we are holding the last plenary session. The prime minister of Ukraine asked me to address you. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u125	Honorable National MPs, colleagues, distinguished invitees! None of the deep socio-economic problems of our state can be solved without the effective cooperation of the branches of government: legislative and executive. I am sure that such cooperation does not have to depend on a narrow political environment, but, above all, it must be based on national priorities, systemic, professional, and constructive actions. The government invites people's deputies to cooperate on the legislative settlement of many of the most important issues of state, economic and social development. This is certainly the adoption of the tax code, the pension reform, the reform of the judicial system, the improvement of the budgetary process. I am absolutely sure that we need to deepen the mechanisms of interaction that should also be the basis for improving the governance system in Ukraine. To that end, we supported the proposals of factions, national deputies for joint work and the involvement of national MPs in the preparation, the adoption of government decisions. We propose to participate more actively in the sessions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, especially when it comes to systemic public issues, we plan and continue to involve the National Deputies widely on the basis of their proposals for the work of the College of Ministers and Authorities, the Supervisory Boards of Supervisory Boards, the Government Committees. We propose that the next session begin with a relaunch of the Coordination Council in order to improve the cooperation of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we have a pretty positive view of this. We think the best steps we've taken to complete the current session are to set up a joint working group to prepare the Tax Code project, to set up a joint analysis group on the development of the 2003 coal budget. This is a question that we are now working towards the development of an agro-industry complex, a humanitarian sphere, so that we can have the maximum number of issues discussed at a high level of expertise and put in the Supreme Council Hall quality, professional documents that are primarily in the interests of society and the state. We are working with you to consolidate the positive effects of the economy and all spheres of life of Ukraine. I am absolutely sure that in order to add to these processes the irreversible character, we absolutely need to work together with you both on the system of interaction, and on the consolidation of intelligence, the experience of all the national MPs that are in the Supreme Council. The issue of the formation of a stable parliamentary majority capable of ensuring effective and legislative action in interaction with the executive branch is of great importance. Dear national MPs, colleagues! Allow me to thank you for your cooperation, our desire for productive work, and in the future for the achievement of a decent standard of living for Ukrainian citizens, the growth of the welfare of society, the respect and authority of our state in the world’s fellow workers. I wish everyone the best and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u126	The statement is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-12-m0.u127	Dear National Deputies! Dear guests! Journalists! The first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ends on the 4th call. The hardest thing in every case is getting started. For Parliament, this fundamental truth is fair or not double. As he gathers the winners of the pre-election battalions, he accumulates a tremendous amount of energy that is ready to give a tangible impetus to the development of society and the country, or to decompose or explode. This is the atmosphere where our organizational, human and other issues were resolved, which laid the foundation for the four-year work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In summation of the 2 months, we can conclude that the difficult starting point we've overcome in general without significant losses. It is known that the Supreme Council of the New Company began its work on May 14, and on June 11, it had its organizational framework. We were able to relatively quickly form the organs of the Supreme Council, agree on the number of functions and the personal composition of the committees. Let me remind you that our predecessors were only able to handle this task on July 15th. Despite the high political temperature of the sessions, we managed to get around the deaf. This was helped by the high sense of responsibility of deputies to the Ukrainian people, openness to dialogue, understanding the need for compromises, and the creation of harmonized positions. In all of this, testimony to the high political maturity of the MP Corps. The important conclusions of the stage that has passed must also be taken to the conclusion of the main political structure of Parliament. On the basis of the 6 political parties and the blocs that joined the election, 14 MP factions and groups were formed. That's fine, I think. As a result, the interests of the political forces represented in the Supreme Council became more clear. The deeper structure decides on the role of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups, transforming it into the main parliamentary institution for the search for compromises and the definition of the equivalency of all existing vectors. This, in turn, will allow better use of time for the sessions of the Supreme Council. The quality of Parliament refers to the main factors that give rise to a breakthrough in Ukraine into a new quality, that it will eventually find its proper and worthy place in the new world -- a world that is constantly changing and complicated. This is confirmed by the high qualifications of the deputy corps. I remind you, among us 49 doctors and 88 candidates for science, 124 deputies have the necessary basic education for parliament: economists and lawyers, in this room experienced parliamentarians, whose work experience consists of the national acquisition of Ukraine -- this is without exaggeration -- as well as those policies that have broken through to the Supreme Council for the first time, having experience in their assets in practical work under new conditions and circumstances. Such a combination, such symbiosis, creates additional and conducive conditions for effective action by the country’s higher legislative body. The growing potential of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is also confirmed by the fact that all, without exception, newly formed committees, and they are the first and main focus of the preliminary drafting of drafts, have been incorporated into the legislative work. Within a month, they were processed and proposed for plenary consideration of about a hundred draft legislative acts. To date, the Supreme Council has already considered 75 bills, of which 36 have been adopted as a whole. I would like to remind you that only 11 laws were passed during the first session of the last vocation. Among them is the Customs Codex, over which the Supreme Council has fought in recent years. The Supreme Council has agreed to appoint the Attorney General of Ukraine. Addressed issues related to the work of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. People's Deputies Assistants have been organized. The government days, the hearing of information, the reports of the Cabinet of Ministers, the discussion of the budget report, the budget resolution shows Parliament's willingness to carry out its monitoring function more consistently. And that's good, and that's the right thing to do, although, of course, it's going to cause and cause some complaints, or even misunderstandings. In this regard, I would like to look at a historical parallel. In 1848 an antimonarchic, or democratic revolution, took place in France. As in any revolution, there were many crimes, including bloody ones, because it was done by the most uneducated people, it was a common people, it was common citizens. Once upon a time, Hercen was under their hot hand. He was captured as a foreigner, suddenly a spy, and dragged to a station where they could just, as he writes, shoot. In addition to the famous Tokville, then a member of the Assembly, a representative of the people, Hercen writes, with a stupid lyca, or deputy badge, in the heel. In 1838, Toquiville visited the United States and, upon his return, wrote a huge book called Democracy in America. This is the best book of democracy in the world to date. Hercen asked him for a replacement. To what does Toqville, as Hercen writes, very nicely bowed down and let go of such banality: "The legislature has no right to enter the executive's office." If Herceen wasn't the injured party, he might have said something else about it, for example, that, in fact, the failure of the legislative and executive authorities to intervene in matters can sometimes result in a tragic outcome. So when it is dictated by necessity, it is necessary and necessary to intervene. I hope that more attention will be given to this matter by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Practically every second law passed by the Supreme Council is the law passed by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, and that is also good. I am sure that the legislative process can be made effective, and only by combining the efforts of Parliament, the President and the Government of Ukraine. However, the very list of bills that have been considered by the Supreme Council makes it necessary to focus on such a matter. Absolutely, I would stress that the vast majority of the bills passed by the government have no systemic, or more specifically, systemic, nature. Usually, they are expected to continue, and at times some modifications to manual control, which in all market rhetoric only takes root in us. It seems that we are living one day. I think it's derived from the fact that there's a strong sense of temporaryity in the authorities, and from this there's a lack of systems in the work, a lack of desire and a desire to work for perspective, to grow up, to create new rules of behavior. Then we all need to realize that the task of today’s day, let alone the prospect, cannot be solved by means of instruments from yesterday. Regrettably, rhetoric is often followed by the unwillingness to work on laws of a permeable nature. I'm not talking about the quality of the raw material that comes into the session hall. This, in addition to everything else, suggests that when we find that there is understanding in the Supreme Council, the President and the Government, that we need to build an effective system of governance, that we are doing virtually nothing in this direction. And to consolidate the Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian elite, which I repeat, accumulated in Parliament, can only be consolidated in meaningful work. I pay particular attention to this aspect of the matter, since Ukraine today needs a cooperation strategy that is crucial for stability, foresight, dynamic progress in society and the state. At the same time, to my conviction, the proposed changes to the Basic Law should be surgically accurate, balanced, and reasonable. They should not be based solely on party sightings, but they should be given more signs of rematch. We need anything to demonstrate civil courage, to rise above political preferences and to act from the interests of the people and the state. The fact that we often have several bills from MPs, the government, the President, who often exclude each other today, shows that all cooperation plans and all co-agreements tend not to go beyond ritual. A specific, I stress, concrete, mutually agreed work is needed to reconcile all positions at the drafting stage. Ideally, we need to focus on a bill that meets all the requirements and standards. We need to ask questions about analysis, the definition of all existing legislative fields, and on this basis we need to define a system of legislative work that takes into account the internal and external political tasks that lie ahead of the country. The adoption of the law on the basic principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies should be a sign. We must, we must, define the vectors of our development on the basis of awareness of our national interests and strategic goals, clearly delineating them. Only then will we become ourselves and stop applying our economy, our external political line, finally our people to someone and to something. Once again, I would like to stress the main and decisive point: Ukraine must find, Ukraine must determine its place in today's world, especially in Europe. At the same time, our policy should be exclusively pro-Ukrainian, forward-looking, egoistic, hard-line Ukrainian interests both inside and outside. In this, the Supreme Council is called upon to play a leading, decisive role. Living in an era of extremely rapid change that requires us not to be distracted from the world, we must seek ways of effective integration. At the same time, all our legislative work should take into account, as I do, such an important postulate, on which the Pavlovsky National MP has repeatedly stressed: it is not possible to pay everything back to the market economy, even though the market provides solutions to many problems. We need to be oriented, we need to act in such a way that we can strike a balance between the state and the economy, otherwise, under our circumstances, we will always be in expectation of an explosion, whether it's a social one or a political one. So far we can see the economic crisis, in other words, the economic policy crisis. And one more thing, we stubbornly continue to appreciate human capital while it has always been and remains a key factor in economic development. Then a valuable, humanitarian ingredient should be constantly present when considering and adopting any law, I would like to emphasize -- any law. More activity, in our view, should be played by appropriate committees and not limited to appeals. You need meaningful suggestions, bills, and so forth. We go to parliamentary vacations, honorary colleagues, to be precise, we take a break in the joint work, with a considerable share. Given the 118 legislative acts that came to us last time, there are nearly 400 bills on the committee today. They keep coming. You are given an indicative list of the bills proposed by the legislators for inclusion in the agenda of the day - to - day second session, which will begin its work on September 3. Of the more than 300 bills included in the list, the vast majority relate to economic and social policies of the sector. In the autumn session, we have to consider and approve the 2003 National Budget of Ukraine. This is especially the case in the financial document for life and for the state, and for every Ukrainian citizen. Special attention is needed by the Tax Code, which today will be started by a working group that will conduct its first session at 1300 hours. Finally, I would consider it necessary to emphasize again. The first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its fourth vocation concludes its work in a normal state, moving forward throughout the legal front. This can be viewed as a major share. Thank you all, dear colleagues, for your cooperation and understanding. It's the Hymn of Ukraine.
