ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:36]] Registered -410 There were 410 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. The Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic participates in our work. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Petrova Viktor Borisovich, who was 55 years old. Let's welcome him, wish him all kinds of good and good. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on November 23rd of this year, at 7:30 local time in the Iranian city of Ardestan, in the province of Sfan, experienced the crash of AN-140 by the Ukrainian airline Aeromist. [[Kharkiv]] Chest, I'm sorry. He was heading from Kharkiv through Trabzon to the city of Isphahan. [[Turkey]] According to the Embassy of Ukraine in the Turkish Republic, 42 Ukrainian citizens and 6 citizens of the Russian Federation were on board the aircraft, according to a passenger manifest received from Trabzon Airport. All passengers from Ukrainian and Russian airlines heading to the city of Isfahan to participate in the second aircraft release of the joint Ukrainian-Iran production and the meeting of the companies involved in the supply of the aircraft. In total, 42 passengers and 6 crew members were on board the aircraft, according to the passenger manifest and the general customs declaration. According to previous information, all those on board the plane were killed. According to previous reports, the pilots did not cope with poor visibility, and the plane crashed into a mountain range. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence of the dead compatriots. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we are now having the last meeting of factions and MPs to discuss the situation that has taken place in the morning. And we agreed, by opening the session, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to take a break from the meeting of the National Deputies so that the leaders of factions and groups would express their views and their suggestions on how to overcome the parliamentary crisis. I'd like to have a conversation, not with the prosecutions and accusations of each other, but with the exit position of that deaf corner where we found ourselves, based on our own vision, in our own positions, so that Parliament could start its main mission to get us out of those positions during those congregations. We have arranged to have representatives or leaders of factions and groups present in turn. Spend, if necessary, two hours, three hours, that is, all the time taken to the morning meeting. Is there no objection? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-24-m0.u2	Let's get to work. I am Gennady Josephovich the Widow, please. He wants to make a statement. It's out of line. I ask with understanding to deal with this. Please turn on the microphone of Widow Gennady Josephovich. Will you be from the rostrum, Hennaday Josephovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-24-m0.u3	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for giving me your word. Honorable National Deputies, today, December 24, are 65 years old from the date of the birth of our colleague on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the hero of Ukraine, the founder and head of the People’s Movement of Ukraine, Vijeslav Crnovola, a well - known talented politician, civil and public figures, a lawyer, a publicist and journalist, a prominent fighter for the statehood of Ukraine, the establishment of a democratic system and the development of civil society. Viacheslav Cranovil was one of the 60s, a young generation of Ukrainian intelligence, who, from love for their own people, came up with the idea of resistance, seemed to be an all - powerful machine of the totalitarian state, adopting the estephet of the struggle for the will of Ukraine from a generation of fortieth to 50th years. For this undying love, Viacheslav Cnerwell, as his brothers, paid 15 years in prison and exile, lost in health, and it would seem that there was no possibility to realize itself in the real service of the nation. However, it was the unbreakable tenacity of the Jewish General Chernobyl and his courageous companions that marked the national rise of the 1980 ’ s, which broke the back of the totalitarian empire and brought about an age - old dream of Ukraine’s state independence. Chernobyl in the 1990 ’ s became an example of a state actor in a new democratic style. Leading the Lviv district council, Viacheslav Cnerovil initiated economic, land, and social reforms. As a statesman, he played a prominent role during the 1991 August riot, events that led to the proclamation of the Ukrainian State Independence Act. As a permanent member of the Supreme Council, Viacheslav Cnerovil is directly involved in the establishment of the legal foundations of the young state, and his role in the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine in 1996 is undeniable. As the political leader of the nation, Viacheslav Crnovil, led by the National Movement of Ukraine, turned it into a unified and purposeful political force of a stable statehood, a national democracy, a market reform of the economy, a Ukrainian national idea. But Viacheslav Cnerwell was tragically killed in circumstances that have not yet been identified. We believe the truth about this murder will be known. The central leadership of the People's Movement of Ukraine thinks, I quote, that "we celebrate the anniversary of a man who has devoted her entire life to the protection of the Ukrainian people, and for us, as motorists, he remains a model of political leadership and uncompromising advocacy of national democratic ideas even at the cost of his own life," the end of the quote. In all cases, Viacheslav Cranovil was seriously interfering with the situation in Ukraine. I really appreciated the processes that were taking place in the state. That is how we view the parliamentary crisis as part of the national crisis with all the consequences. There's a departure from what Ukraine achieved in the mid-1990s. I'm going to illustrate it with one thing, but it's a very eloquent fact. The Prosecutor’s Office of the Butchi district of Ternopil district protested the decision of the fifth session of the Butchik City Council on the fourth call of October 24, this year to name one of the streets of Butchacha, in Butchacha, on the street of Viacheslav Crnovola. And the district attorney is protesting against it. He was killed by Chernobyl. Until then, the D.A.'s investigation didn't complete it. Now they want to kill the memory of Chernobyl. Neither the Attorney General’s Office nor the district attorney’s office will get it, let’s not! I am very grateful to the members of the Supreme Council for the determination you have made almost unanimously to mark at the national level a hero. Thank you. And thank you for the support you gave in opening the monument to Chernobyl in the city of Zlatoví Lviv district, where he spent the last weeks in prison. For in Lviv he was feared to be held in prison, so he was transferred to Złoczów. Thank you for your support. And to you for giving your word. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I had a lot to ask for that word. Remember, you are here because of Ukraine’s National Movement, Ukraine’s United People’s Movement, which has led Ukraine to independence! Don't forget that, goodies!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-24-m0.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce a recess in the morning session to hold meetings of the national deputies.
