ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system, please. There were 333 national deputies registered in the hall. Someone may not have been able to register, so there is a request for a room: Please prepare carefully for registration again. There's almost a faction of Yulia Timoshenko, I can't see it in the hall. [[The meeting may still be held]] May I have your attention, people's deputies? Let's get ready and register again. Please turn on the "Race" system. Thank you. There were 375 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to carry out a pleasant assignment. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Mike Vitali Ivanovich. Allow me to welcome him to his birthday, to his health, and to his fruitful work. Yesterday at the meeting, we made decisions about the formation of MP factions. And according to Rules 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the fourth call was formed, and on May 14, 2002, such MP factions were registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The faction's multiple is 22 Ukrainian national deputies. The authorized factions are: Moroz Alexander Aleksandrovich, Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, Viennese Joseph Vicentiovich, Boki Ivan Sidorovich, Grzezhev Anatoly Dmitrovich, Seminouk Valentina Petrovna The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. [[political parties "Universal Union of the Fatherland", Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor", Ukrainian Social Democratic Party]] The faction's multiple is the 23 national deputies of Ukraine. The authorized factions are: Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, Matvienko Anatoly Sergijovich, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, Turkinov Alexander Valentinovich. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The faction's multiple is 63 Ukrainian national deputies. The authorized factions are: Simonenko Petr Mikolaiovich, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovitch, Ponomarenko Georgiy Grigorovich, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. The faction of our Ukraine. The number of factions is 119 people's deputies in Ukraine. The authorized representative of the faction is Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich. [[Applause]] The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The number of factions is 31 people's deputies in Ukraine. The authorized factions are: Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich, Zinchenko Alexander Alexiyovich It's the only Ukrainian faction. The faction's multiple is 175 national deputies in Ukraine. The authorized factions are: Litwin Vladimir Mihajlovich, Bandurka Alexander Markovich, Vasiliev Hennaday Andriyovich, Glady Mikhalo Vasilovich, Guriev Vasil Mikolaiovich, Kalinčuk Vasil Antonovich, Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich, Klavov Andri Petrovich, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, Pustowovetenko Valeriy Pavlovich, Rahansky Anatoly Varfolomiyovich, Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich, Tihipko Sergei Leonidovich, Sharov Igor Fedorovich. Six MP factions have been registered, so we can assume that yesterday's decision of the Supreme Council has been implemented. And there was a parliamentary structure that would allow us to work productively and move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, from yesterday's approved agenda, I'm sorry, I'd like to ask the members of the Temporary Committee and invite them on the third floor to a meeting at the Bureau Hall. We confirmed the number and personal composition of this committee yesterday. Is there a need to announce the Personal Composition of the Counting Commission? Yes. By decree of the Supreme Council on the interim Counting Commission, we have chosen to be part of this commission from the "Victor Yuschenka Block "Our Ukraine" - Asadchev, Karmazina, Kostinuk, Manchulenka, Sobolev and Crnovola; from the Communist Party of Ukraine - Hinzburg, Mishur, Chichanov; from the election bloc of political parties "For the One Ukraine!" The "One Ukraine" factions - Ivanova, Kalichenka, Kafarsky, Mike, Mirimsky, Ryabikina, Fomenko, Shevchuk, and at the request of the deputies of the "One Ukraine" faction instead of the Borgia Alexander Ivanovich were also accepted; the Socialist Party of Ukraine - Grojacheva; the election bloc of the "Electoral bloc of Yulia Timoshenko" - Sitnika; and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - Ryabik. [[united]] Members of the Temporary Committee of the Counting Committee are requested to meet on the third floor of the Bureau Hall. Thank you. I'm asking the apparatus to provide us with some information on the number of non-fractional warehouses, and I'm going to give this message in the next question. Please turn on the keynote microphone of Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u2	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Mr. Chairman, as soon as you announced the number of factions registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you listed the members of the Counting Commission with the appointment of a representative. However, there was no link. From the faction of "One Ukraine" to the provisional Counting Commission, nine people entered. However, the number of members of this 175 - member faction does not provide a basis for nine representatives. So you have to decide to remove one of the representatives of the "One Ukraine" factions from the Counting Commission according to the faction number.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u3	Yuri Bogdanovich, we approved this decision yesterday, but I hope that the quantitative composition of the "One Ukraine" faction allows for delegation to the temporary 9 MPs Committee. Why? Because we have approved this standard of representation: one of the 20 national deputies. They have eight representatives of 160 deputies, with 15 remaining, giving them the right to have another representative. If it were 9, 10, you would certainly be right, and we would ask that question for consideration by the Supreme Council. So once again, I would like to emphasize that the number of the factions of "The One Ukraine" allows us to have nine people's deputies in the Counting Commission. Thank you. There has been a report that, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, non-factional deputies 11. And at the evening session, which will begin at 4:00 p.m., the factions will be handed over to the National Deputies. Dear National Deputies! From yesterday's agenda, we are asked to consider this question -- the list and functional orientation of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On this issue, you will be given the projects prepared by the Preparatory MP and the draft decision made yesterday by the four national deputies, the leaders of the four MP factions. A member of Karpov’s Preparatory Deputy Group, Alexander Mikolayovich, has the floor to explain the matter. To do this, it is proposed to take up to 10 minutes. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u4	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! The issue that we have to resolve, in accordance with the Rules and the Committees Act, includes the approval not only of the census but also of the functional orientation of the activities of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know that there have been and are going on around this issue, including the media, the debates, the different arguments, the different approaches to what someone wants, the proposals to increase the number of committees, take them under you. There's a discussion about it, more or less, better or worse. I was reminded of an episode in the life of an earlier man. Rosa Luxembourg once, wanting to be independent, had a discussion with one of the magazines on any "yes" of this magazine, she definitely said "no" and she definitely said "no" to any "no". So instead of independence, it was the worst form of addiction. We have to come from, not who proposed this document, where 27 committees plus one commission, but from what should be the meaningful work of these committees and what should we be guided by, determining both their number and their meaningful activities. [[a in this case proposed a preparatory parliamentary group, where there were representatives of all without exception of the political forces]] In the course of the discussion at the meetings of the subgroup, the Preparatory Group, I am firmly convinced that the arguments that will be made today have actually sounded. And we talked about how many committees have been loaded, which are larger, which are smaller. The point was that we have a practice where there are 23 committees plus one commission, there are no premises in the Supreme Council, there are unstaffed secretariats. Believe me, there are arguments, I think, from the wicked one. We have to get out of the other, we have to get out of the fact that before the Supreme Council -- the great array of legislative work that it has to do. And I didn't accidentally point out that we're approving not just the list, but the functional orientation of the committees. We came out of this, and also from the fact that, if you look at it, the completion of the list of functional positions of each committee is a position -- parliamentary control within the limits of the powers that are attached to the committee. So, from the point of view that we need to enhance the role of the legislative body as such and as its representative, as well as its control function, for the activities of all committees there is a large legislative field. From the point of view of technology. Believe me, I have the appropriate documents in my folder, the problem of the 27 committees did not arise at the meeting of the Preparatory MP. There has been a generalized experience of the work of the previous Supreme Council, which has periodically raised the issue of the need for a committee to deal with constitutional, tax matters. We had a serious problem when the legal committee failed to resolve the issue of the approval of judges. [[And by the day, by the night, and by the hour, there stood a line near this committee.]] And the possibilities for a serious, partial to the end to solve the problem of each of those who were approved were not present in this committee at the time. That's when, in that call, the people's deputies, by generalizing the experience of work, came to a conclusion, and this generalization was made in that assembly of parliament, that we need to form a committee to deal with constitutional and legislative matters. And I'm asking you to pay attention to the functions that he's going to perform. The arguments that will be addressed by the State Building Committee show that in four years this committee has not been able to deal seriously with these issues. And if we don't divide these functional powers, then we have to be convinced that these issues, which are extremely important for the state-building, for the distribution of functional powers between branches of government, will continue to be such that they constantly undermine the situation around the effectiveness of government structures. When we talk about the legal committees, I ask you again: look carefully at the distribution of powers between the Committee on Justice and the judiciary and the Committee on Law Enforcement. The array of necessary documents is such that one committee, regardless of the number of its members, is, unfortunately, unable to prepare professionally at all times during our office. [[And we're supposed to get out of our planned work, not just what daily life brings up on the surface.]] I'm drawing your attention to one point where the talk is that the faction of "The One Ukraine" is building 27 committees plus one commission. [[This, by the way, was my proposal on the basis of a generalization of experience.]] My suggestion was to bring the Industrial Policy Committee together with another committee and to create an Industrial Policy, Transport and Communications Committee. [[She was not supported at the meeting and the subgroups, and the working group]] In response, there were some arguments that made it clear to me as the author that my proposal was wrong. There have been these approaches that clearly show that we are at a transitional stage today, and based on the fact that we have not yet raised the legislative and codification array to the level to scale up the structures that are to be dealt with, we have to build a list of committees on both functional and sectoral principles. I repeat, and I want to finish what I'm talking about. I'd like us not to look at the problem of a large number of committees, because we have to decide on the list and the functional orientation of the committees, that's the first. Secondly, in order for us to come out of the substantive part of the planned legislative array to be adopted by the Supreme Council in this convening, so that we can understand that, without creating an appropriate organizational instrument in the form of a committee to decide on matters of legislative enforcement in one direction or another, we will once again have the result of the one that had the previous Supreme Council when, in substantiating the conclusion, the Head of the Supreme Council of the previous vocation stated that the entire legislative array, in a direction, unfortunately, was not only accepted and not even considered. The option that is proposed is, in our opinion, close to the optimal for both political and essentially legal, and essentially organizational tasks that stand before the Fourth Council. And given the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council, what we have to determine after the Constitutional Court’s decision, what it is about competence and how the Supreme Council is to act here, the adoption of such a document with appropriate functional powers corresponds to today’s development of the legislative base and the tasks before the Supreme Council. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u5	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Any questions to the reporter? People's deputies please sign up for questions. It takes five minutes to ask questions. Light up, please. There were 41 national deputies. The word is given to the deputy Gabrieluk. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u6	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Electoral District 147, Poltava Region]] I would like to give the floor to Alexander Markovich Bandurke.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u7	Turn on Bandurka's microphone, Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u8	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 176, Kharkiv Region]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Alexandre Mikolaiovich, 108 drafts adopted in the first reading, have not been considered and passed on for the work of the Supreme Council on the fourth call. In addition, 56 laws returned by the President with observations. You think there's a share of the committee's guilt because there wasn't enough detail, professionalism in their work and legal orientation? That's how I got you?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u9	No, it's not. I'm getting out of the other one. The power of any chain is in the weakest chain. From the point of view of time and space in the committees behind these issues, there is so much that, even if they work as collective management bodies, they will discuss and make decisions 24 hours a day, physically, and not because there is no desire, there is no need for the number of documents to consider professionally. They refer to what there are subcommittees. Yes, but the subcommittees are no more than the preparatory structures for solving the matter at a committee meeting. They're just preparing the problem, and at the same time, the matter has to be dealt with by the committee. Both the working committees and the national MPs who were in their ranks know that, in connection with the deficit of time, many of the issues that were dealt with did not find legislative or procedural confirmation during the consideration. We have to understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u10	Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u11	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Alexander Mikolaiovich, even without Rose Luxembourg, you know that Ukraine's higher strategic goal is to re-integration into Europe and build Europe here at home in Ukraine. To that end, we, as in other parliaments of the world, in the Ukrainian Parliament, need to create a Committee on European Integration. This proposal was also made by factions, I presented it, and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Without this, all our laws will be hurlous, and hundreds and thousands of laws will have to be converted into a European standard. Why is the Committee on European Integration not listed again?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u12	Thank you so much for asking. I know that even without Rose Luxembourg, but after you've said what you said, now I know with you that we have to integrate into Europe. Such an offer, indeed, was made, it was considered. As you recall, I did not object to having such a committee. But in both the working group and the subgroups, the question was spread across a number of committees. If the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko actively supports this position, I think we can add to the 27 committees that are to add the Committee on European Integration and vote in friendly favour of the 28 committees plus the control commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, and with the SND countries, including, people say absolutely fair. The Communist faction joins this logic, but it adds, "and with the SND countries." We already have an arithmetic majority so we have 28 committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u13	Deputy Steckov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u14	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 118, Lviv region]] Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! Dear National Deputies! I listened very carefully to you, and I didn't understand which criteria were laid down as the basis for an increase in the number of committees from 23 to 27. If this is a political criterion, when a person or a faction needs to be given specific additional positions to resolve a matter, so should we. If this is an expert criterion, please explain the logic and the scope of legislation involved, such as the Committee on Antimonopoly Policy, and how does the Committee’s knowledge differ from that of the Economic Policy Committee? And why would it be necessary to divide the Legal Reform Committee into two committees, from constitutional and judicial reform issues, if, in the past Parliament, a committee divided into a committee of law and a committee of state-building issues produced a lot of collegiates and intersections when there were two committees for one law?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u15	Dear Taras Stepanovich! You remember one of our colleagues who, speaking to John Stepanovich, said, "You explain to me so much that even I can understand it." I'm explaining that even you understand. I had argued before, and you in the working group were sometimes present when the issue was considered. All these arguments regarding the political orientation of the increase in the number of committees are challenged by an argument regarding the functional orientation of their activities. As far as the legal committees are concerned, it's not my position, it's the position of those who worked on the Legal Policy Committee. And they explained, and I witnessed with you on the second floor, through the road, the huge queues of judges that were being ironed, sorry about that word, for months, without considering the issue of approval. There are physical and legal points that dictate the possibility of solving matters. Even if you want to speed up, you know the speed of light, and it won't be bigger. This means one thing: We need to get out of reality. Why did such a division take place? I want to stress one thing. In the Supreme Council of the past and of the past, we acted on the principle that life required only the response. The problem of legislation should be built on a different basis. I mean life, not in a broad context, but in a specific context. People's deputies' initiative, a bill of lading. Today, some 20, 15 of the 168 constitutional bills have been considered, and others have not been considered or introduced. [[and how many articles end with the words "to be determined by law"]] We have to plan the legislative work. As a result of legislative planning, we built this system with functional orientation and necessity. This is not a system offered by the bloc "For the One Ukraine!".. This system is offered by a subgroup and a working group that you had the privilege of being part of and sometimes appeared there.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u16	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Question time's up. Dear National Deputies! I would like to advise you that you have signed up for the address of 36 national deputies, and two national deputies have signed up for the presentation. It's a very important question. We'll take some time to do that. And I want to remind you that we still have an alternative draft decision that was made by the leaders of the four MP factions. I understand that Alexander Alexander Moroz will represent this project. That's okay with faction leaders, right? So let's take about 15 minutes to discuss this. A little bit, isn't it? Then let's take half an hour, because there's an alternative draft decision that the four MP factions are offering. So I'm stressing that we're going to take 30 minutes to discuss this. [[B in m in s a l in]] With motive? Please sign up for the reasons for the vote. Thirty - five national deputies were enrolled in the procedure. Deputy Weretennikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u17	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 28, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] The city of Dnipropetrovsk. Dear National Deputies! The reporter told us today that many of the issues that mattered to Ukraine were not resolved because they were not purposeful. I'm going to say today, as the former head of big production, as an entrepreneur that can't be removed from the knees of our production, it's not going to be possible to solve the business issue in Ukraine if we don't create a committee to deal with tax and customs policy issues. This tax scale is the main lever that can lift our production from our knees, change our system, and the main thing is that all of our voters will be satisfied, because we can increase our wages. I want to say that we must create a committee on customs and tax policy. This is central to Ukraine’s economy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u18	Thank you. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna. Prepare Kravchenka Mikoli Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u19	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Chairman! I'd like to address you with such a request. In accordance with the Rules, a basic draft regulation is first considered by the working group and then by an alternative. So I think I need to give the word of Alexander Alexandrovich right now, let him report an alternative project of four factions, and then we will discuss together, as provided for in the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u20	Valentino Petrovy, that's definitely true, but we're going to finish the speech on the basis of the vote, and I'm going to give the word of Alexander Alexandrovich of a group of factions. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich. Prepare Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u21	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Valery Ilic, there's a request. We're just wasting time to prove to each other whether this committee is needed or not. There is an opinion of the working group, expressed by the People's Deputy Karpov. There's an alternative project. There is now a proposal to terminate the statements on the list, to give the floor to the one who will announce the alternative draft, to discuss it and to vote in favour of one of the drafts.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u22	Thank you, Mikolo Vasilovich, for the right offer. Then we'll finish the speech and give the word out. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next? Okay. Three more minutes. Deputy Matthew. Please. Prepare Deputy Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u23	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Please pass the word to the national deputy of the Humir.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u24	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u25	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. I have a question for the Bureau. Tell me, please, what's going on with the Rada system? Karpov's questions were asked by four people from the "One Ukraine" faction. In recent years, the work of the Supreme Council of the past convening has been explained to us that there is one person from each faction at the beginning, and then the most numerous factions are recorded at the end of the sequence. Now someone has apparently replaced, without the knowledge of the Supreme Council, the algorithm that is embedded in the Council system. I would be very curious to know how this happened and who is responsible for this unauthorized change in the algorithm.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u26	Thank you. I want to remind you that we've only just started our work and there are, of course, a few technical issues. And yesterday, you know, we announced a break for this. Now, I understand that not only the procedure, but the motivations will be for those who signed up, but the record of the factions has been made as defined by the "Council" system when pressing the button to write questions. I'd like to remind the National Deputies that you can sign up for a statement on this or that subject right now at the Secretariat. The word is given to Deputy Chubarov. Prepare for Deputy Rudzkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u27	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you very much. "Victor Yuschenka's Block of Ukraine." Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u28	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u29	The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Chairman! I would very much hate to use the reasoning applied by the distinguished Alexander Mikolaiovich Karpov and explain it in such a way that even someone understands it. However, it seems to me that it is clear to all that in the early days of the meeting a certain school for all deputies. Therefore, the strict letter of compliance with the Rules is the absolute requirement of the presiding officer. I very much ask that you comply strictly with the requirements of the Rules and, when an alternative project is available, not during the discussion, but during the co-report, you give the floor and do not question it. And so that, when the procedure is under discussion, there is no substantive discussion, because that is why you are causing chaos and not allowing the newly elected deputies to become accustomed to the procedures of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u30	I accept the remark, but I would like to remind you that the MPs are now speaking out of motive. The report by Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz will take place after a speech based on Rudzkowski Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u31	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! We're wasting our time today. I think we need to move on to an alternative project and move on. This is the first time. And secondly, I'm addressing the governors here. We can have the spikeriad for a long time. You have to do your job on the spot. We are grateful that you were present yesterday, but if we sit here and choose Head for two months, the regions will be undirected. Go and work. We'll work hard too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u32	Thank you. The word for the report on the subject is given to Mr. Aleksandr Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u33	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues! I'm not actually claiming an alternative project report because I'm just expressing the opinion of those authors, the factions who signed this project. Anyone can make up for what I've said. Moreover, in the form of six faction leaders we discussed this issue, and the vast majority of the participants in these discussions agreed that we should keep the existing structure of the Supreme Council in the form of today's committees that existed in the Supreme Council of the past. Alexander Mikolaiovich Karpov was very persuasive in his position. It's so convincing that I immediately wanted to create 447 committees so that there were clearly defined functions for each MP and everything was fine. But practice shows that this is not the case. We've chosen the function principle of the Supreme Council. All managers fully understand that if the function becomes smaller, there are contradictions between these functions. And to manage this process, and the legislative process is extremely serious, there are additional challenges. Both you and the leaders of Parliament, the Head and the deputies, have repeatedly convinced themselves that it is necessary to write a bill for consideration on various committees. And that's why there's contradictions -- what kind of profile committee is there to report on what terms are being considered by some document or other. This needs to be avoided because it blocks the work of the Supreme Council. Examples from the work of the Supreme Council of the past vocation. Remember: The Roadway and Yooffe, issues related to the organization of state life, local self - government, election laws, and so forth. A constant discussion at the meeting in Head, a constant delay in accepting the necessary documents. Remember the Parliament of the past call: there was a constant discussion between Azarov and Suslov on the priorities of a committee on draft laws relating to fiscal policy, tax legislation, and so on. So the exclusion in the project proposed by the working group, the tax and customs committees, antitrust policy issues, and so on, is everything, again, using Alexander Karpov's words, from the evil one. How can antitrust policies be separated from economic policies? It's just not serious. And I would like to support the proposal of four factions to save 23 committees and one privatization committee. This is quite enough to ensure the effective work of Parliament. After all, the subject of the law of the legislative initiative is not a committee, but a specific MP. And whatever committee he's on, it depends on how active he's going to be, and the progress of this bill in all of the procedures that our legislative system provides for. And one more thing. I would like the working group to look closely at the statistics and see how many committees have worked on the bill. Because we have one covering over the bill, and the other looking for something to say to him from the Supreme Council's rostrum, so that everyone can see that the committee is working, and it's needed. And finally, the last is about material security. Five additional committees are not just cabinets, machines, and so forth. It's also 50 people in the state that need to be planted somewhere, it's another 25 to 30 extra seats in Parliament, which can't be provided either. If we're talking about the cost of legislative work in general and the rational organization of the legislative process, I strongly ask you to support this project that we're introducing -- 23 committees plus one commission. Unless you can make an amendment by introducing the following text: "The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy and the Court of Justice" to emphasize this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u34	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Do you have a question for Alexander Alexandrovich? No questions asked. I would like to remind you once again that the recording for the speeches on this subject is being held at the Supreme Council Secretariat. Let us turn to this question. Please explain who signed up for the discussion. Rudzikowski is given the floor to discuss the matter. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies! I suggest that we not delay our time and move on to making a decision. People are waiting for us to make a decision on a more important issue -- the leadership of the Supreme Council and the committees. Of course, if we leave the logic of the preparatory group, we need to create a tax committee, a transport committee, and a liaison committee to create an antitrust committee. [[I understand it's the "For Ukraine's One" block. stretches the idea of increasing the number of committees]] If we go this way, we have to consider that there are football players and coals and gasses and metallurgies in the Supreme Council who would like to have their own committees. This way we can't go. I propose to stop at the number of committees before that. It's functionally justified. There's no need to breed new committees. We need to put this question right now, maybe for a rating vote, make a decision and move on. And one more thing. I'm addressing the deputies from the faction of Ukraine. If you count, your faction and the faction of SDPU(o) have fewer votes at the moment than the other four factions, and so your vote for increasing the number of committees will give us an opportunity to divide them probably, and that will not benefit you or the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u36	Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich. Next up is Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u37	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! We are now discussing a matter that is no less important than the election of the Chief of the Supreme Council and its intercessors. I would even say that this is more important because the main work of Parliament should be done on committees. The quality of the legislative acts depends on how the committees work, and the main task of the committees is to prepare a bill at such a level that it can pass through the session room without denying it, and if it does, it's ideological or something else. The main thing is that there are no professional claims in terms of training qualifications, from the point of view of legal engineering. My experience in the Supreme Council gives me reason to think that committees work -- I don't mean to say bad -- they don't work enough. And now this is the pain point in the work of the Supreme Council. If we do not improve the quality and efficiency of committee work, we will not achieve the goal we want in the legislative work. I offer to work in the session room silently, that is to say, to vote, and to settle all questions on the committees. Of course, you realize it's a joke, but you still have to shift the focus as much as you can on committee work. It's not about the number of committees, it's about the quality and how the entire committee system is built. Again, in my opinion, the Supreme Council committee system has been badly built. I could speak for an hour, but I have one minute left, even less. I believe that the structure of the committees that have been in the Parliament of the past assembly is imperfect. But that committee structure that is now being proposed is even more imperfect. I tend to feel that I am less imperfect than I am more imperfect. And to avoid being loud, I'll just give you one example. Here we are proposing to create a committee on economic policy, ownership and entrepreneurship. In the past, I worked at the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. And that's better, by the way, because the issue of investment is crucial. Next is the Antimonopoly Policy Committee. What's that? This is also an economic policy! Next is the Committee on Industrial Policy. It is also an economic policy! Agrarian Policy Committee. It is also an economic policy! Should such committee names be kept? If I had been assigned, I would have prepared for you in one night the perfect structure of the Supreme Council committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u38	Alexander Markovich, I'm sorry. The Communist faction is given by Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich. The last is Bandurka Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u39	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! The Communist faction will support a draft decree that clearly determines that the committees will be 23 and will be one special commission. Where did we come from? We came from the fact that our overall function, our common function, is to protect national, national and national interests and protect the interests of our voters. Remember, please, some of the figures that Ivy gave yesterday, standing here on this stand. He said that 43 percent of those bills that were considered and adopted in the Supreme Council were then vetoed by the President's decision. [[digit is very interesting]] We're with you, and I'm addressing those of our colleagues who are first elected by the People's MP, and you're going to feel that later, you're going to have to take into account: 99 percent of the draft laws are being submitted to the Supreme Council by the executive branch. So the main question here is how these draft laws correspond to national interests and how professionally they are prepared by the executive. This is where the root of evil is, and this should be taken into account in the organization of further work. And all the things they're trying to do today, including the faction of the block, "For Jedu!", is clear to us. In fact, names can be placed under the names of the committees they have proposed. We also have to ask whether increasing the number of committees will contribute to improving organizational work or not? We don't think we can answer that right away. Because it's going to make the relationship between the committees more difficult. We've felt this way over and over again here in the Supreme Council, which is what my colleagues were talking about, speaking out of this rostrum. One committee pulls in one direction because there are representatives of one financial group and, let's say, some interests, the other committee pulls in the other and stands in a completely different position and suffers from national, state interests. Therefore, we urge: Let us not turn from the first steps our Supreme Council into a clan body that will defend only its own interests. With regard to technical security and understanding of what is wicked. I'd like to remind Alexander Mikolayovich that we don't have enough jobs for the National MPs, there are no tables on the Committees where the National MP can work. [[And you first-chosen, reverend colleagues will feel it on you.]] I'm not talking about what's behind this, how it affects the quality of the job. And with respect to the queue. It's from the wicked one. I would like to say to the distinguished national MPs who were elected for the first time: when the committee heads were Communists, all draft laws in accordance with the Constitution were submitted at the proper time, there was no turn, the laws were prepared professionally, qualityly, adopted by the Supreme Council in general composition, mostly by the majority. [[Believe me, I'm saying this with pride, because this fact will also be confirmed by the Supreme Council of the previous regiment.]] The question is, who will lead the committee, what purpose does it come for, what task does it pose, whether it is a national person, or whether it represents the interests of the clan. That's where the differences are in terms of how we're going to keep working. I'm asking you to support a project that's been implemented by four factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u40	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. The word is given to Bandur to Alexander Markovich by the faction "The One Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u41	Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! My special appeal is to those MPs who haven't been here for the first time, some of them have been here since 1990. We had 12 committees, then we had 15, then we had 18, 22, 23. We added a committee on the fight against organized crime when the Supreme Council of the Third Council began to work. [[24th]] The Privatisation Control Commission was the 25th. It was. Were we forced from a good life to increase the number of committees? Just to improve the MP's work, allowing MPs to work better on committees on drafts. It's not about the number of committees. Some say that an increase in the number of committees will lead to that. The number of deputies doesn't change - 447 deputies today are. And the budget of the Supreme Council doesn't change. There's only going to be a redistribution of funds inside. Who will deny the need for a Liaison, Telecommunications and Information Committee today? It's a requirement of the day. After all, the number of committees, their functions need to be clarified. This will provide an opportunity to strengthen parliamentary control over the direction of legislative work. This will allow for greater detail of the legal regulation of the economic, political, and spiritual life of society and the state, for everything must be regulated by law. I agree with Peter Mikolaiovich that MPs are supposed to draft the bills themselves, not to use what we're offered from departments and ministries. But why aren't you developing them, distinguished national MPs? It's already a question of our profession, of our ability to use the potential of every MP who's a professional in one field or another. If you have the opportunity to work on the committee you choose, you can express yourself better. And finally, everyone who spoke here agrees that the structure of the committees that was just didn't prove their effectiveness. Tens and hundreds of bills have not been considered in four years, including those relating to the tax system, the pension system, and health insurance. I'm going to refer to the experience of the Committee on Law Enforcement, which I've been working on for 12 years. In four years we have considered 2,800 questions, 84 bills, hundreds of complaints. If our committee were to be divided, we would be glad. I propose this order: first consider the proposal of the Preparatory MP group, then the proposal of four factions. If neither and no are accepted, then each committee shall vote separately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u42	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. And finally, to go to the vote on these draft regulations, the final word is given to Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! After our discussion, I would like to pay attention for three moments. When I talk about political subtext or the subtext of increasing committees, I'm going to send it to the numbers that Alexander Markovich just quoted. The increase in the number of commissions and committees took place at the time of the chairmanship of Mr. Aleksandra Alexandrovich, Tweakman Alexander Mikolaiovich, Ivy Ivan Stepanovich. And then no one saw it in this political context. Please, Your Honor, don't let us look at it in that context. This is one moment. Wait a second. The seats are not enough for national MPs to sit. Well, believe me, that's not an argument as to how we should solve legislative problems. This is embarrassing for the Supreme Council! We should have solved that question long ago! With the number of organizations, the structures, the committees that are in the state, the increase in the number of committees in the Supreme Council by two or three, and their material security is actually a penny! The failure to resolve this issue is followed by huge calculations in legislation. There's no condition, there's no reason, there's no technical security, and then we lose millions. And the third moment. Dear colleagues, if we've already begun to use the words "from the wicked," let me go back to them again. Well, we don't understand that if we build this system on a functional principle, there should be committees on state-building and constitutional governance, legal policy, economic policy, social policy, humanitarian policy, regulation -- that's all! Everything else, given the transition state and the economy and the state divided. We have to move in functional mode, but there's no other way. Therefore, the argument that the committees should be 23 is as subjective as the subjective argument that I am trying to raise from the working group. We need to understand that on different chains or on different parts of the spectrum of our legislation there has been a completely uneven provision of this process. And so when we get to full codification, I think we're going to have what we have in Europe, in the direction that I'm referring to, we're going to have committees. Today there are different vectors, different depths in the legislative process, and it dictated what was proposed. [[You'll believe me if you read the functional orientation carefully.]] And nothing else, there was no political one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u44	Thank you. Alexander Alexandrovich, do you insist on closing? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u45	This is where Alexander Mikolaiovich touched history. I have been an MP since 1990, and I remember how committees and parliament structures were formed. There were 22 committees in the Supreme Council on the twelfth call. Then, in 1998, an additional committee was set up to combat organized crime and the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. [[He's referring to 1994-1998, my term of headship.]] [[Not at my suggestion, but at the insistence of MPs]] And this number of committees was preserved during Parliament's leadership by Alexander Tuckenk. By the way, when the majority of them were specifically appointed as the Head of John the Plush, you could accept anything at that time. Still, you agreed that there would be 23 committees and one commission. So if there's any personal risk in this relationship, there are options for how to solve the question, I'll talk about it later. But this is about the efficiency of Parliament and committees, and it depends not on the structure, but on the MPs themselves, on how they feel about their affairs. So let's focus on that. And to avoid the threat of an increase in the number of committees, Alexander Mikolayovich proposed a very nice formula: let's do this in this configuration -- Frost, Tuckenko and Plush -- let's solve the issue of the leadership of the Supreme Council and get rid of all the problems. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u46	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Joseph asks for a reply. Please. Then, on the basis of the vote, Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u47	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 112, Lugansk Region]] Dear colleagues! In his speech, arguing with the number of committees, a colleague of Frost mentioned the past vocation and work in the Conciliation Council and called my name. Knowing Alexander Frost long ago, knowing his approach, I wouldn't take the floor for a replica, but there are MPs here who don't know him very much. So here's what I want to point out. For the honorable Alexander Frost, everything that does not match his understanding of political relevance is wrong. So the logic, as Cat Matroskin used to say: "Joint work for my benefit unites." [[speak the original language]] Everything that is not in his favor is divisive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u48	It's a motive. Turn on the microphone of Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u49	Ukrainian national deputy (mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Thank you. The faction of the Social Democratic Party. Dear Chairman! Your Honor! First of all, our faction will support the proposal and decision of the preparatory group and the draft decision that proclaims the establishment of 27 committees in accordance with article 89 of the Constitution and the Special Committee on Privatisation. But I took the floor on the grounds of the vote to draw the attention of the people's deputies and, above all, the Bureau to the fact that we are allowing for legal invalidity in relation to the approval of both draft rulings, because one of the draft rulings will still take place as a result of the vote. The point is that article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the establishment of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council at one of the first sessions of the first session approves a list of committees. And this has nothing to do with the approval of the Special Privatisation Supervisory Commission, which is provided for in article 7 of the Law on Privatization of State Property. This error is made both in the draft regulation proposed by the Preparatory MP and in the draft regulation here called "the draft regulation of four": a commission is also proposed among the committees. [[1009-1]] In my opinion, in order to comply with both the Rules and the Constitution, it is necessary to separate: the establishment of a Special Committee on Privatization, which should be paragraph 2, and paragraph 1 should be a list of committees, regardless of whether they will be 24 or 27. It would be absolutely right for the decision that we will make in the first or second version to be in line with the rules of existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u50	Thank you, Victor Vladimirovich. This question was considered yesterday, and the findings of the General Legal Office were. And we should, in considering this issue and voting it, certainly put a separate point in the Special Monitoring Commission on Privatization. Time's up. Let's go to the vote. The draft Decree on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is based on the vote on the fourth call and commission of the Preparatory Delegation Group to finalize the list according to the comments made. Please vote on the basis of the draft decision made by the members of the Preparatory Group. Please vote. "For" - 202. Please, by the factions. "The One Ukraine" - 164, "Our Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 0, SDPU - 28, Block Timoshenko - 1, Socialist Party of Ukraine - 2, Non-Faction - 5. Dear National Deputies! The Bureau received two petitions from the presiding officer in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u51	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, a draft decree is made by the Ukrainian people's deputies of the factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Our Ukraine, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please vote. "For" - 219. The factions, please. "The One Ukraine" - 1, "Our Ukraine" - 113, Communists - 62, SDPU - 0, Yulia Timoshenko - 19, Ukrainian Socialist Party -19, non-fractional - 5. The decision is not taken. Is there a desire to speak out of the procedure? Please sign in. Please explain the recording of the proceedings. The word is given to Soboljev. Get ready for Francesuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u52	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine." My proposal is in line with what was previously said in the discussion. It consists of putting to the vote a project that won 219 votes without the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u53	Thank you. Francis Igor Anatolyovich. Please. Prepare Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u54	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 7, Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Please pass the word to Karpov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u55	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u56	It's the only Ukrainian faction. Dear colleagues! I am convinced that in this convening of the 10- and 20-fold votes on the issues raised, we will not have and we will act in accordance with the Rules. We have to do this, and that is normal technology and organization of our work. In this regard, according to the Rules, in the situation that has arisen, we need to consider the draft working group proposed on behalf of the national deputies separately in the voting regime of each committee. We consider whether or not we make decisions as a result of that list of committees that we will have in the Supreme Council. Technologically and from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, no other procedure is envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u57	Manchulenko. The next one is Tsushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u58	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 203, Cherniewec region]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The fact that we need to confirm the list of committees is as true as the fact that we are sitting with you in this room, and we are not given another. It is obvious that the draft of the Preparatory MP group has acquired an absolute minority of votes and that the project that has gained few votes, even in the consideration of each individual committee, is irrelevant and inappropriate. It is obvious that in order for us to continue constructive work, we need to go back to voting on a project that was introduced by representatives of four factions: Our Ukraine, the Companies, the Socialists and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Moreover, not all deputies have adopted voting procedures, even today when voting people have not been able to vote properly. Once again, I propose to go back to voting on the draft decree of four factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u59	Thank you. Chush. The next one is Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u60	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u61	Turn on the Frost microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that not everyone has become accustomed to voting, I think it is important to vote on both. And I also support Sergey Soboljev's proposal as an additional option: only a committee proposal can be voted on in order to make a more productive decision. As for the commission, vote separately. And here, I don't think there's any resistance, it's just technical questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u63	Kirilenko. The next one is Rudzkowski. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u64	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Victor Yuschenka's Block of Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I think we're here not to count the number of votes, but to make effective decisions. Of course, there is virtually a decision on 23 committees plus one commission on the surface. Only the technical flaws in the organizational capabilities of the factions prevented this decision from being made for the first time. So I'm asking you to ask a question for a vote, but in two parts. The first part will apply to 23 committees and the second part to one Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. In this way we will avoid formally for someone to vote dangerously on the same issue the second time. This will be a new vote that will allow us to make a decision now and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u65	Thank you. Rudzkowski. And insists on Matthew from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. If you don't agree, we'll end up at Rudzkowski's.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u66	A socialist party. Dear National Deputies! We propose to vote because we have two men from the faction who voted in favour, but the cards didn't work. The Fatherland also voted in favour, and the cards didn't work either. We propose to vote both projects again and to view this vote as a rating vote for projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u67	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko insists on speaking. And the Communists insist. Okay. You haven't expressed your position. Matthew, then Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u68	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Julia Timoshenko's block. The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. I am addressing the honourable Presidency, which we have chosen temporarily, and I ask you for the Rules, Adam Ivanovich, to give an order, according to the Council system, to introduce such a program that gives every faction the right to sign up for a statement of procedure, because there is a program that all of us here do not exist the same and the factions do not yet. We had this program, and I'm asking you to go back to it, because this morning you declared factions present. That's the first one. And the second. Regarding the last vote. We really have a lot of deputies who are voting for the first time. They pressed the button, and without waiting for the column on the screen to disappear, the button was released. Four such deputies, so we ask that we take into account this situation and ask the question of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u69	Thank you. Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u70	The Communist faction. First of all, I'd like to state on behalf of the faction that we didn't have a card working with a national MP, although he voted in favour. And secondly, so that there will not be any further collisions involving what we have to vote on in accordance with the Rules. No, this is really from the wicked one. I want to tell College Karpov that in article 4.4.2 of the Rules, part four, it is written, "The creation of permanent commissions of the Supreme Council is carried out after the formation and registration of parliamentary groups." [[we're talking about committees.]] [[fractions]] And an appropriate ruling is made on the list of committees, not each committee separately. So we ask you to put to the vote a draft ruling that has gained more votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u71	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich Karpov insists on replication. Please turn on the Karpov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Indeed, there can be as many approaches as possible to the treatment of the Rules. It provides that we approve the list, but if neither the proposed general list is approved, there is no other way to obtain a final list than to go from committee to committee. So I did not offer anything from the wicked one. That's the first one. The other one. We're not going to be able to get our credit cards working all the time. The experience of the former Supreme Council shows that when someone is dissatisfied with something, the card does not work. We didn’t have a credit card in nine of us either. Let's make a deal: cards work normally, they work politically abnormally. And the Rules don't have to be violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Please calm down, because this is a very difficult question, and we have come back twice to consider this issue at the Preparatory MP's meeting. There were really very serious arguments in favour of increasing the number of committees. And from yesterday's report by the Head of the Supreme Council of the previous convening, we know about the findings of the legislative activity that the workload on the committees of the various and the effectiveness of the work of the Supreme Council depends on what structure we create for the committees of the Supreme Council. Most of the proposals made by the people’s deputies involved a re-voting of both draft decrees. I give my word on the Bespalam procedure, and we vote again, define ourselves. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u74	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you. "Victor Yuschenka's Block of Ukraine." Ukrainian People’s Movement, the city of Kiev I think we should organize the work of the Supreme Council, starting with the organization of the work of the Presidency of the first session of the Supreme Council. And if we've already decided that we're putting the word in order of writing, there can be no special requirement for special people who then take the word as much as they want and when they want. It's about order of conduct. If so, yes. Now it is essentially a matter that is not only political but also procedural. There was a proposal, clearly and clearly formulated by Victor Medvedchuk, who did not vote, which does not match either the first or the second sentence, this is the third sentence, to vote on the draft decision from two paragraphs, namely: a separate list of committees submitted by the Preparatory MP group, and the second paragraph on the control committee. Perhaps one of the deputies, who is particularly attentive to procedural matters, did not support any of the projects because it was not implemented. That's why we have the only normal way to vote on two unvoted projects: the Preparatory Deputies Group, but divided into items where the first item is a list of committees, the second is a Special Privatization Monitoring Commission, and introduced by representatives of four factions, also divided into two. After this vote, we can move on to the next issue of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u75	Thank you. I want us to be clear about this and not waste our time. The order of the vote for which the vote is based is defined by the Rules of the Supreme Council. So if the factions who failed to express their position on a particular issue insist on speaking, we will give them the floor. Thank you. The distinguished national deputies came up with a number of suggestions during their discussions and presentations. The first proposal made by Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich is to vote on a list of committees without the Special Committee on Privatization. This certainly involves representatives of those political factions who made an alternative draft decision. It's a motive. Turn on the microphone of Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u76	Ukraine's Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Dear colleagues, the Honourable Presidency! First of all, I would ask you not to twist what I said. I didn't have a third proposal, and I started by saying that the faction of the Social Democratic Party would support the project proposed by the Preparatory MP group, which was reported by Alexander Karpov: the creation of 27 committees and the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. [[united]] I recall that the privatization control commission should be within the structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 7 of the Law on Privatization of State Property. Next. I suggested that the draft decision on the number of committees should be legally adjusted. This applies to both the draft decision prepared by the Preparatory MP and the "draft decision four" because both in the case and in the case of the draft, there is legal inadequacy. These draft decrees need to be formulated from two points: the first is a list of committees. [[24 or 27, I'm 27 and our faction too]] And the second point is to create a Special Monitoring Commission on Privatization. This is not a third proposal, this proposal provides for legal adjustments to the form of the draft decision to be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u77	Thank you, Victor Volodymyrovich, for this explanation, so that it is understood not only by the temporary Presidency but also by all the national deputies. With Medvedchuk's addition, we will put to the vote once again a draft decision that has been tabled by the MPs and an alternative draft decision. Immortal. For reasons of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u78	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Valery of Illijah! I remind you that you are obliged to give your word for the faction’s motives. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Valery of Illijah! Both in one and in the other draft decisions, as the colleague rightly pointed out, there are these editorial moments. This is true of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime. This committee is also provided for by valid legislation. Because both the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and the Supervisory Commission may not vote in the list of committees at all, for they are provided for by valid legislation. But once this is formally accepted, we can vote them, as it was said, in a two-point project. We propose to put to the vote now our draft decree, from four factions: a list of committees without the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! There were also proposals for us to re-vote these two draft regulations. Therefore, as chairman, I am putting to the vote the draft decree that was made by the members of the Preparatory MP group, with the addition that Victor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk made. Please prepare for the vote. The bill is based on the Supreme Council Committees and the mandate of the Preparatory Delegation Group to finalize the list according to the comments made. Please vote. We are voting on the draft of the Preparatory Deputy Group. "For" - 203. The factions, please. Thank you. The vote is based on a draft decree made by the people's deputies from four MP factions, with the exception of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. Vote. The factions, please. "The One Ukraine" - 0, "Our Ukraine" - 116, Communists - 63, SDPU - 0, Yulia Timoshenko - 23, Ukrainian Socialist Party - 21, non-fractional - 7. There is a proposal to vote in general. Yeah? No one insists on either additions or comments? No, it's not. This draft decree shall be voted on as a whole. Vote. "For" - 231. The factions. "The One Ukraine" - 0, "Our Ukraine" - 116, Communists - 63, Ukraine's Social Democratic Party - 0, Yulia Timoshenko - 23, Ukraine's Socialist Party - 22, non-fractional - 7. [[united]] Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I have pointed out that the Presidency has been approached by the leaders of two factions in accordance with an article of the Supreme Council Rules asking to announce a recess for consultations. These are factions of Ukraine and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Another announcement: A preparatory parliamentary group is now meeting in the conference room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our morning session. According to the approved order of day of the first session of the Supreme Council, we need to consider the question of the numerical composition of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. On behalf of the National Deputies of the Preparatory Deputies Group, Alexander Karpov is given the floor. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please to the rostrum. Attention, we're working. The request to the National Deputies to open page 19 of those materials that you were given, there is this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! A draft Supreme Council regulation on the number of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call is being submitted by the Preparatory Group. You have a draft decision, I'm just going to give a brief comment on this document. There are two aspects of this problem: legal and organizational and appropriate. From a legal point of view, the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy does not restrict the National MP’s desire to work on a committee or other committee. And this is the original document, the primary norm on which we have to act. At the same time, some committees were small and others large. Therefore, the Rules provide for a proportionate representation of the national deputies in the bodies of the Supreme Council, and the Committee is just like that of parliamentary delegations. From a constitutional point of view, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy is primary, and I repeat, no other document can limit the National MP's desire to work on a committee. From the same point of view, the regulatory rule on proportional representation does not conflict with the law, since the Rules are not the law, so it is a sub-legal act, but from an organizational point of view it interprets this logic in a different way. On the basis of this, a draft regulation is proposed, which provides that the minimum number of national deputies on the committee should be at least 10 and a maximum of 25. And MPs and factions, thus supporting or not supporting this draft decision, assume an organizational and ethical obligation to delegate to the committees of their national deputies to make such a proportional representation. From the point of view of organization of work and purpose, there is a serious point of view, and generally, although exceptions were in all the Supreme Council’s warehouses, the problem was usually solved. When it comes to the 10 people's deputies in the committee plus the recommendation that there should be at least two subcommittees, then we'll count the head of the committee, the first deputy, the two heads of the subcommittees, the secretary. So basically on a committee of 10 people, one leadership. But if there are less than 10 people, it is very difficult to organize the committee’s work. When it comes to 25 persons, the exception was the committee on international activities, where half a hundred national deputies were usually enrolled. As a result of the long-standing and fruitful discussion that called them in, I think, 35 remained there. The norm that was adopted by the previous Supreme Council was not fulfilled. So once again, this rule, from a legal point of view, is only a recommendation. But at the same time, we cannot take such a decision because it is necessary to determine the minimum and maximum limits on which the Supreme Council should be directed. In a previous call to the Supreme Council, a standard was adopted that recommended the maximum number of national deputies in the 30 - person committee. As a result of the discussion at the meeting of the subgroups and groups, 25 were proposed, and I'll let you know. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, the report is complete. Any questions for Alexander Mikolaiovich? Yes. I'd like to tell the people's deputies about one thing. We have two modes of writing: one is normal when it's recorded independently of factional property, and the other is when it's recorded with factions. What regime will we use — normal or fractional? Taking into account factions. It's a deal. Please sign up for the question. Put five minutes of questions on the monitor. The question is given to the national MP, Taran. The next one is Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u83	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Alexander Mikolaiovich, you rightly said, by the way, that working at the Committee on Foreign Affairs was very and very desirable. But there are committees they don't want to go to. For example, the Committee on Social Policy and Work is not very busy. But this committee is needed. So let's think about this hypothetical situation: whether this committee or another committee has eight or nine people. What's left to do is eliminate the committee? But it's necessary. I mean, how can we be practical here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u84	This basically means that if we use the Law on the Status of People's Deputies of the Supreme Council Rules, that the parliamentary groups and factions should decide on the recommendation in proportion to the composition of this committee of their representatives. If they do not make such a decision and make up a committee of less than 10 people, that means that we either have to change the minimum limit of the number of members of the committee in a particular case, or decide to eliminate such a committee. You understand perfectly, we can't decide to eliminate such a committee. [[It's about a specific committee, and there's really little room for that -- about the Committee on Social Policy and Work.]] This will mean that then the parliamentary groups and factions, according to our decisions, have to be proportionately recommended and insist on their deputies to implement such a recommendation, to go to work on this committee. I don't see another option yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u85	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. The question is given by Alexia Baburin of the Communist Party faction. The next one is Sandler.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u86	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Same question. In the experience of the previous convening of the Supreme Council, we have also interpreted the Rules of the Supreme Council, but none of them have. You remember that in such committees as defence, foreign affairs, it was often, collectively, that they were overcrowded. The Committee on Pensioners and Veterans was composed of only representatives of the Communist factions. If factions don't form committees in proportion, what will be the situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u87	I think it's about the way it was in the previous warehouse, because there's no way out of the experience of another problem-solving scheme except how to agree on this and do this deal. From a legislative point of view, we have to adopt the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, where this issue is to be regulated and harmonized with the People's Deputy Status Act. [[But it won't be the end of the conflict either.]] When we write this clearly, then these problems will disappear. Today there is a contradiction between normative, legal, organizational documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u88	Thank you. The question is given to the national deputy Sandler. The next is Vernigora, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u89	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] I'm asking you to pass the word to Stoyan from the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u90	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you, Sandler. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, dear colleagues! What's written here isn't bad, but it's not good. We will not be able to force fewer or more candidates. And that doesn't solve the question. Moreover, as evidenced by the experience of some committees, such as the Committee on Retirement Affairs, the Committee on Social Policy, which has been the most advocate of draft laws, no one wants to go because there is really much work to do, and dividends are not enough. And so many of these draft laws fell in the Supreme Council. How do you view the proposal that I made in writing, and what kind of work is going to normalize it? The essence of the proposal is to complement paragraph 1 with the words: "The deputate faction, which has overcome more than 10 percent of the barrier, delegates to each committee no less than two deputies, the other factions to at least one MP." [[Underlining]] This will require each deputy faction to send at least one or two deputies to each committee and then all those who wish. And this will be the full representation of MP factions on all committees. Alexander Mikolaiovich, your opinion on my offer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u91	Alexander Mikolaiovich, from a legal point of view, neither the first nor your proposal are normative, imperative. Both and other suggestions will be of a recommendational nature. And depending on the goodwill of MPs and factions, as well as MPs, the question will either be resolved or not resolved. I have to repeat once again that we have to adopt the Law on the Rules, bring this problem into line with the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and then we will not have to accept such a decree in general. Today, what we accept is both in your version and in each other has the nature of the recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u92	Thank you. The word is given to Vernigori Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u93	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear reporter! I'd like to share that thought. In Parliament's second vocation, we started working with the Committee on Social Policy and Work of the Seven Deputies. And we barely got her to 11. I think if we don't set all these standards today and so forth, we just have to agree on a committee that there will be at least 15 deputies, and, for a short time, this is a matter of stretching or delaying, voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u94	Let me tell you after you've given me your thoughts. If you've been on the committee for 7 to 11 months, we're going to be going from 7 to 15 for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u95	Thank you. The time taken to ask questions has come to an end. No one from among the factions insists on questions? No, it's not. Alexander Mikolaiovich, thank you. Let's go to the vote. You all have a draft Order 1008 on the quantification of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. There is a proposal that Karpov made on behalf of the working group to accept as a basis. Then vote on the proposal made by Deputy Stoyan. Is there no objection? Who's in favour of taking the draft decree 1008, please vote. "To" - 400. Decision taken. Four hundred national deputies were voted in. The draft decision was adopted as a basis. People's deputies are asked to show the results of the faction vote on the monitor. Please. The offer was made by the national deputy, Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, who handed it here in writing. The point is to complete paragraph 1 with the words: "The deputate faction that has overcome more than 10 percent of the barrier is delegated to each committee at least two deputies, the other factions to at least one MP." [[Carefully Observed]] That's the offer. Karpov and other colleagues ask for words. Let's give the word Karpov to the task force.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! We can make any decision, but this decision, I repeat, does not have an imperative character, it will be declarative. [[That phrase was quite common in the Supreme Council.]] And then there will be problems when one faction, if you'll excuse me, points to another. I don't think it's necessary to create even around this colony that we're going to be hostages of quite a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u97	There is a proposal for a vote. Who would like to make Alexander Stoyan's proposal as a supplement to the draft decision under discussion, please vote. "To" - 87. The decision is not taken. Please show the results of the factions vote on the monitor. Thank you, of course. Dear National Deputies! Thus, the draft regulation 1008, proposed by the National Deputies - members of the Preparatory Deputies Group, was adopted as a basis. There is a proposal for a draft decision as a whole. I'm asking a question for a vote. Who is in favour of a draft Decision 1008 on the quantification of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fourth call to accept as a whole, we vote. "For" - 398. Decision taken. They voted in favour of 398 deputies. Please show by factions. Please. I see. Thus, the decree is adopted. We move on to the next question of the agenda: how to vote on the nominations for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A member of Karpov’s Preparatory Deputy Group, Nikolaiovich, is given the floor for this report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! A preparatory parliamentary group, working on materials before the Supreme Council meeting, proposed a draft ruling. Briefly, why this decision was needed. There are three rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that determine how to vote. The first of these provides that the Supreme Council shall take a decision by roll-calling the ballots and the subsequent printing, as stated in the Rules, of all the issues it decides, except those that are regulated by valid legislation. This includes the National Bank’s Supervisory Board, for which the law itself defines how to vote. The second part of this article is worded as follows: there is a roll call on the articles and these articles are listed. That is, the vote must take place in all cases, except those defined by law. But in preparing the document as an official edition of the Rules of Procedure, where it refers to voting on the Supreme Council Head by way of newsletters. has not been edited. This led to a conflict between the articles. The working group and the subgroup in connection with the situation were forced to offer another subgroup of lawyers to consider and give consideration to how the issue would have been resolved or not resolved. As an alternative to a solution to the situation, before the adoption of the new Supreme Council Rules as a law, lawyers proposed the formula on page 29 as a draft for your consideration of the decision. In the first part, it's a batch vote, and in the Rules, it's not an mandatory rule, it's one that can be used. You and I have already decided that voting on the Supreme Council and its deputies will take place in a package. In fact, two problems now remain: voting and the procedure for dealing with the issue. With regard to the voting method in the draft regulation, it is proposed that this vote be conducted by open-ended fixed-voting by means of an electronic voting system. [[alias]] At the same time, you have received a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the procedure for considering the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head and the Deputy Head, which regulates not only how the vote is voted on but also the general procedure for dealing with the matter. Under this draft regulation, it is proposed to hold a secret ballot by submitting ballots to which candidatures are proposed in the relevant packets. [[Well, it's clear to everyone that it's going to be as secret as today's bright day.]] All packets are voted on, and then the decision is taken or not taken. So far, I'm only going to report on the first part that doesn't apply to the general procedure. The latter should be determined, since the Rules provide for a large number of time for the interview of candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council, as well as for the reports of candidates for the posts of First Deputy and Deputy, and for their answers to questions. [[Who's been watching these rules, knows]] And taking into account the number of people who have already appeared in the packets, the process itself can even technically take a few days to discuss the matter. So, no doubt we have to decide how procedurally this issue will be considered, but right now, on the basis of the working group's proposals, we have to determine how to vote: this is going to open up a roll-call vote or a secret ballot vote. Within the working group and the subgroup, except for representatives, if I am not betrayed by the memory of the Communist faction, everyone unanimously and unanimously offered to decide on the roll call.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u99	Alexander Mikolaiovich, are you finished? Are there any questions for Karpov? Please sign up. We're taking five minutes to ask. Please show me on the monitor who signed up. The question is given to Bespalm Boris Jakovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u100	"Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Movement, Kiev. Please pass the word to Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u101	Assadchev Valeriy Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u102	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Thank you. The faction of our Ukraine. I have two questions. First. Now we're starting to get proposals for batch options, and I'd like to ask you some questions that I've come up with. What is the procedure for forming the package itself, i.e. should candidates agree to be in this package, or have they given such consent? The other one. When voting earlier on the staff, you know that they put out every person, the room had no right to do one or the other, it just got involved in the ballot, and everyone who was involved, then two who won the biggest vote. If no one won immediately, the second round of balloting was held. Do these packets now, if they are, say, formed two, three, four, have to compete with each other, do they have to vote separately on each individual package, let's say, as they come in or under another procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u103	As to the first question. The working group did not consider these procedural issues. Not because I didn't want to consider it, but because the representatives of the various political forces in the working group said they had to consider it and identify among themselves the leaders of the MP factions of the blocs and the parties that won. In this regard, neither the rules nor the procedural points that are set out there nor the moments that arise, and they actually arise today, within the framework of a project prepared by the working group, have been reviewed or proposed. I don't think the task force here has performed its functions because on behalf of the task force, there was a call to the leaders of the blocks and parties to identify and propose such a scheme. It's about how to vote. We have to work on this scheme. As I understand it, in those draft regulations that are proposed, it is proposed to vote not for each package but for the package. For example, the package contains the names Ivanenko, Petrenko and Sidorenko, and one count, where you either vote for a package in the composition of these people, or you don't vote for a package like that. Predicted according to those packets that are given, I understand that none of the packets will be voted on in secret by a ridiculous vote on the whole of Ukraine and the media. [[B in m in s a l in]] Here I have the same right as you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u104	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich. The word is given to Francis Igor. The next one is Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u105	The "Only Ukraine" faction. Please pass the word Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u106	Ludmila's wife. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u107	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. That's my question. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! During discussions on the procedure for the election of the Supreme Council leadership, it is practical for representatives of all political parties and blocs, including the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, the Yushchenka bloc, the "For the One Ukraine" bloc! "Soccords, have spoken for the fact that voting on such candidates should take place in an open, transparent manner, stressing that this procedure should be applied in order not to allow any vote manipulation through the ballots. Why is this position in the room changing now, do you think? And does this still fit 100 percent of the rules?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u108	You see, I have no reason or right to comment on the position of those whose position has changed. I'm just going to remind you of the wonderful words in one song: "Everyone wants to love - both a soldier and a sailor, Everyone wants to have both a bride and a friend."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u109	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich. The word is given to Yuri Lucenka. The next one is Head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u110	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Karpov! Would it be possible, from your point of view, given that the names in the packets are repeated, to discuss at the same time all the packages that we already have in our hands? [[And we already have four packets, of which, at least, it's at two that we're proposing to pick out the speaker of Lithuania.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u111	In accordance with the Rules, we do not simply have to discuss packages at the same time, but we are obliged to do so at the same time. Each representative is obliged to give his word, giving more or less time to do so, and he has to answer the questions, and a discussion is to take place. The alternative draft regulation proposes to amend all rules of the Rules, and as such this option cannot be accepted. If we vote not by the principle of "whoever wants to have," but by the normal open voting mode, then all problems related to the amount of time to discuss, to vote, to pack, will technically be solved ten times faster than another scheme.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u112	Thank you. The word is given to the people’s representative, Sergey Petrovich. The next is the deputy of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u113	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The MP's faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear reporter! You say "secretly funny" a few times. So, I'm sorry, was that when the people secretly elected you to Parliament? You understand very well that our faction and factions of "Our Ukraine," the Communists, the Socialists, are offering secret ballots not because they're afraid, we'll tell you who we voted for. But, excuse me, what about those seventeen non-fractional national MPs that Kuchma hasn't been able to hang for that "place for which," you say, "have," or what place did Salova judge say to hang for? So we know Kuchma's had you for a long time. But we want those seventeen non-fractionals to vote in secret to be free choice. So, excuse me, where is your conscience?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u114	I'd like to ask you calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u115	He has no responsibilities, no specific image. Sergey Petrovich, I'll just remind you that when you "had" Kuchma as the minister of justice, you behaved quite differently. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Lawyers are known to be divided into prominent, well - known and some lawyers in the Supreme Council. Sergey Petrovich! You're a great lawyer, and I don't put an ironic meaning in that word. You know very well that voting on the election of the representative bodies is a democratic world scheme that provides for secrecy. A secret vote within the collective organs in our regime means buying, selling. Let's set it here, and how many tickets are going to be sold. It was, it was, and I wouldn't want it to happen. As far as seventeen national deputies are concerned. If for the sake of seventeen national MPs we have to organize another spikeriad, let's make a separate decision, let's let them vote in secret.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u116	Thank you. The final question is given to the deputy of Matthew's Valentine Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u117	The Communist faction. Please pass the word to the national deputy of the Humir.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u118	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u119	Thank you. And yet, Alexander Nikolayevich, don't you think that the roll-call vote is anti-democratic? As far as I know, we have introduced a name vote in these elections in the elections in places of deprivation of liberty. I have 2,406 prisoners in the district, if my memory doesn't change, voted, and all 2406 voted in favour of one block - for the "For EDU!".. How does this happen, Alexander Nikolaevich? Here are the results of the roll-call vote when the vote is monitored by those interested in the results of the elections. Alexander Nikolayevich, perhaps when 190 deputies voted in the Ukrainian House and received 245 votes, this is a pattern of democracy? Well, as for such elections being transparent, I have no doubt. Those who have to control are in charge of the election of the one who wants to choose power. That's why I don't want the transparency of the election, and I want every MP to vote in the way his conscience tells him. What about you?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u120	I am for conscience and for every MP to vote according to her command. You've raised general questions, let me answer them. About the Ukrainian House, about the voting in the structures you're talking about. I lived at a time when 99.9 percent secretly in all structures, including the structures you're talking about, voted accordingly. [[And they weren't the worst. Life was what it was.]] That's the first one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear friends, I beg you, the principle is simple: "When Zin breaks up with rudeness," I have to answer. Please don't provoke me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u121	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u122	Now for the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u123	No, just a minute. You don't need "stop!" I'm sorry, are people asking questions about democratic secret elections or not? From the point of view of elections to representative authorities -- yes, from the point of view of collective bodies and the voting of national representatives -- it is an attempt to hide and not be responsible for voting accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, we have now taken the time taken to ask questions and answers for five minutes. Anatoly Matvienko insists, but since Turkinov is now going to do a co-report, the Bureau suggests that he say what you want to say, Anatoly Sergiyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, let's give Matthew a word. Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u125	Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor". Thank you. I have a right and I have to carry out the task of the faction, but before that, here's what I'm going to say. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I understand that Kuchma can be offended by anyone, but the guarantor is obviously not. And one day you said that about the Minister and the President I'd like to apologize to the President for insulting him so much on behalf of the Supreme Council. This would obviously be the right thing to do. We need to respect the President, even though he doesn't respect the Supreme Council and he shows it by his absence. Now for the questions. Alexander Mikolaiovich, really, we're for not buying or selling, but we're for everyone to have the right to free expression. And of course, I invite everyone to support the secret voting procedure. Since we now have a lot of packets, did the working group consider the possibility, before voting in secret mode, of holding a secret ballot in the hall on each package to allow factions to sit and consult and then shorten the process? [[And you have to vote on each package, obviously separately, because only then will this procedure be democratic.]] Do we have that possibility, and can we do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u126	Thank you. Anatoly Sergiyovich, I did not offend the President of Ukraine. "And who had whom," that's not what I was talking about. I sincerely beg you to excuse me. In his position, Sergey Petrovich -- "this way, this way," -- he was doing what you're saying. That's the first one. The other one. Can we vote in the mode you're talking about? No, it's not. This rating vote can't happen, because it's like playing football, to the first naked one. And if one of the 226 votes gets the packets, what is it? That's when you're actually making a decision. This is based on the Constitution, which states that the Supreme Council decides by 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u127	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich. We had an interesting duel. [[Applause]] Representatives of four factions introduced an alternative draft of Decree 1010-2. On behalf of these four factions, Alexander Turchinov is given the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u128	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! Your Honor! Those who took part in the previous spikeriad can confirm that one of the reasons for the delay was the ineffective procedure that led them. In order to improve the situation and enable the Supreme Council to consider quickly and objectively the question of the election of the Head and the deputies of the Head on behalf of the four factions, a draft decision proposing such a procedure for the consideration of the election of the Head, the First Deputy and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. First. The election of the Head, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council shall take place by simultaneous vote. [[batch]] The other one. Deputies and groups have a priority right to make proposals for the appointment of the Head, First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. An offer is offered for 15 minutes. The time for answering questions is limited to 10 minutes for the candidate to serve as Head of the Supreme Council. The dissemination of the materials provided for in part three of article 4.3.2 of the Supreme Council Rules does not take place because we all just went through the electoral campaign and all of our special cases were dealt with by both the Central Election Commission and the State Tax Administration. [[I'll remind those who don't remember the Rules, what it is about special cases, the income declaration and all that.]] There is a suggestion not to waste time on this consideration. To discuss the proposed options, each of the registered factions is offered up to three minutes by the Head, First Deputy, and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. At the conclusion of the discussion, there is a voting procedure, which is carried out separately in order for each package to be introduced. In case one of the proposed options has won the required number of votes, the other options are not considered. [[packets]] [[packages]] To establish that the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of the Fourth Assembly shall be carried out by secret balloting through the submission of ballot papers. [[That's the main thing.]] Provide the organization and vote to the Counting Commission. With regard to the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, appropriate decisions of the Supreme Council are drawn up. In the event that none of the proposed packages have obtained the required number of votes, there shall be repeated nominations for the Head, the First Deputy Head, and the Deputy Head. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u129	Is there a question for Turkinov? Please sign up. I'm reminding you that we have a fractional principle in writing, so there aren't two of them written by one faction. The word is given to the National Deputy of Seminouk of the Socialist Party. The next is Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u130	It's a faction of socialists. First of all, I want to say that the faction of the Socialist Party will vote in favour of this procedure for the election of the Head of the Supreme Council and the deputies. Alexander Valentinovich, you remember the past of the spikeriad. How do you see that we still have to work more productively and simplify this procedure in order to take this decision by 14 hours and immediately after 16 hours vote so that we don't delay time? Will it allow us to speed up our work, or will it not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u131	My dear colleague, this ruling certainly allows for a significant acceleration in the procedure for the consideration of candidates for the office of Head and Deputys. With regard to the decision when it comes to voting, the Supreme Council must make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u132	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Yuri Klukkowski. After him, Mikola Mikolaiovich Szvedko from the block, "For the One Ukraine!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u133	The "Victor Yuschenka Block" faction "Our Ukraine", the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear reporter! I am well aware that this draft decree fully resolves the contradiction that exists today between the different rules of the Rules and that it was not for the apparatus to edit the Rules, and it was for those who proposed amendments to the Rules that failed. But don't you think it would be wise to predict in this decision that it is adopted by ad hoc, or just for that case? That's the first one. And the second. Is it also necessary to provide for the consent of the proposed candidates to be included in the package, and that without the consent of the package, the package cannot be considered?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u134	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues! I ask you to read carefully the title of this draft regulation: "The procedure for considering the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth call." So the ad hoc procedure doesn't make sense because it's the fourth call. When the National Deputies elected to the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call gather, they will be able to propose an appropriate draft decision and make a decision accordingly. As far as agreement is concerned, I agree with my distinguished colleagues that consent is necessary, but this does not need to be regulated by a regulation. When a person takes a stand for himself, I think the Supreme Council will listen to this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u135	The word is given to the national deputy of Sweden. Following him is Deputy Doroguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u136	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 138, Odessa region]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Please pass the word to Zarubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u137	Zarubinsky's MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u138	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! I remember very well how during the 1998 spikeriad you were responsible in your faction for collecting ballots and then throwing them into the electoral urn. I remember just as well as the current member of your faction organized it, but being in another faction, I was doing it under the signature, by the way. So I'm not surprised by this position. I know how you'll do it. I know how the ballots are going to be gathered. You have experience. But I have a question: What has changed? For quite a long time, your faction was so active in favour of a nameless, open, transparent vote. What happened? I'm asking you to explain evolution to such a rapid fractional mood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u139	Dear colleague, evolution can be explained. When we saw the faction of "The One Ukraine" recruiting into its ranks, it became clear to us that during the vote we needed protection for those MPs who had not yet been able to enlist in your faction. That's why we're proposing a secret voting scheme. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u140	Droguncs Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u141	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear reporter! I completely share the position expressed in the draft rulings and your comments. And what I want to say is that the nominal vote in the election of the governing bodies of the Supreme Council is a completely anti-democratic norm, absolutely anti-democratic. But I have another question in mind. We know that the elections to the Supreme Council were secret, but nevertheless, those who formed the largest factions overcame this obstacle -- secret voting. [[You know who this is?]] And we know how many forgeries, how many violations of the law and the Constitution were allowed. What measures can be taken in the Supreme Council to prevent such violations from being allowed in secret?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! I think the Count Commission should be responsible for the summation and voting. And if the representatives of our factions in the Counting Commission find that there is a violation of the approved procedure during the vote, surely the Supreme Council may find the results of the vote invalid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u143	From Julia’s block, Timoshenko is given the word Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u144	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Obviously, there is a need for you to explain once again that our faction is actually the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko was in favour of a transparent, open vote. But what we see today is that there are such mechanisms and such a regime that it's just anti-democracy and counterproductive. Look, there's no one in the government's bed, and there's no judicial authority, and the court can't see us, but the governor's bed is full. Why do governors sit in the Supreme Council for two days? What do they do? Would it not be a time off? Explain that, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u145	Dear Oleg Grigorovich! I think that the question to the governors needs an explanation, and this explanation may be provided by representatives of the President's Administration who want to strengthen their positions and influence major MPs who have not yet joined a faction. But this is my guess, maybe there are other secret tasks that our colleagues governors are doing here. I think it's not just the four factions that made this draft decision who are interested in secret voting. And I think that the honourable deputies of the "One Ukraine" faction are also interested in secret voting, because you can't rule out that in the four factions there are willing to vote for your proposals, but maybe it's embarrassing to do so, and they also need a secret vote. So, your honors, let's not delay the time, but by voting, let's define the procedure and start choosing the leadership of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u146	Alexander Valentinovich, time is up, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u148	Time is up, so I'm going to go to everyone who's written down: are we going to talk about whether we're going to be determined by voting? To determine how to vote, right? It's a deal. You've been given two draft rulings. Please open the documents, page 29. This is the draft decree published by Alexander Karpov, 1010. And there's also a draft of Decree 1010-2 by representatives of several factions. In order of coming, we will vote on them. I'd like to prepare so that in one minute they don't say that they don't make it. The draft resolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 1010 is put to the vote. Please determine by vote. It is proposed that the project reported by Karpov be based. "For" - 202. The factions. Please get to know each other. 202 votes won, no decision taken. I'd like to ask the MPs to listen more carefully, and I'm clearly calling the draft decision number and its name, and then you're questioning. Next project. The draft regulation 1010-2, introduced by the factions of the Communists, "Our Ukraine", the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, which is proposed as a basis. I'm asking a question for a vote, please. "For" - 229. Decision taken. Please show by factions. A proposal is made to vote on the draft decree as a whole. Who's in favour, please vote in general. "For" - 231. Let's see the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I must say that the draft Order 1010-2 on the procedure for considering the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in general was adopted by 231 deputies in favour. [[I'm just announcing it.]] The question has been considered. Let's move on to the next question of our agenda: the election of the Head, the First Deputy, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. I remind you that we must act in accordance with a decision that has just been made. I'll remind you, don't you mind? I would like to remind you that this is the procedure for dealing with this issue. First. The election of the Head and his deputies shall take place by means of a multi-vote vote in favour of the respective posts. The other one. Factions are given priority to make proposals for candidates. It takes 15 minutes to submit and justify these proposals. Third. The time to answer questions is given only to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council, no questions are asked to candidates for other posts. [[up to 10 minutes]] Four. There is no proliferation of materials. Fifth. In order to discuss the proposed options for the positions that we will be voting today, each faction is given within 3 minutes. Please make sure the factions don't say they didn't know. Six. Once the discussion has been concluded, the voting procedure shall take place. In this regard, there must be a need for the Counting Commission to be prepared. I'm not going to read any further, but it's about further actions that I think will stretch over time for the next session. We now have, please note, four draft decrees for the election of the Head and his deputies. The first project, according to the bill registration sector, was introduced by National MP Simonenko, project 1014. Then Project 1014-1, introduced by the People's Deputies of Desertac, Sharov and others, Project 1014-2, introduced by Victor Yushchenk, and Project 1014-3, introduced by Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, Victor Medvedchuk and Plunznikov. Here are the four draft regulations. There is a proposal to give the initiators the same order to present their projects. Is there no objection? Since we have four projects, and we've decided on 15 minutes, let's figure out how many minutes. Three minutes, right? Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, I give you the first word to present my draft ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! In line with the agreements reached during the consultations of the six factions' leaders, we have brought to the attention both the factions' leaders and the entire Supreme Council, a project that, in our opinion, if found support in the Supreme Council, could provide normal leadership for the Supreme Council, organizational, technical and other committee plans and the entire composition of the Supreme Council. We came out first of what the experience of our previous work also shows. Once again, I would like to point out that we, the Communists, have every reason to say that our candidates in the positions of First Vice-President of the Supreme Council, the heads of the committees, worked honestly, in principle. In the previous call, six committees led our comrades, and the effectiveness of these committees was much higher than others. I don't want to offend anyone from the representatives and heads of the committees, but you and I, when we were looking at these projects in the Supreme Council, were witnessing, once again, that it was the heads of the Communist Party that were providing normal work. We also came out of the fact that we came to the Supreme Council on various motives and paths today. [[And that's really, I don't want to offend you, fellow national MPs.]] Regrettably, we still have good reason to say that some of our fellow national deputies will be pressured for four years by the fact that certain commitments have been made to those or other leaders, political structures, and authorities. We have set a goal today by introducing our draft package so that those who will lead the Supreme Council may add authority to the Supreme Council not only within the walls of the Supreme Council, but also outside it, so that they may not say in what state the Supreme Council, how it works, which clans find support, whose bills are primarily pushed or simply, so to speak, force the Supreme Council to consider. We came from the fact that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk already had the experience of organizing work in the Supreme Council, which he proved when he was the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. We also took into account that Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak was acting as deputy head of the Supreme Council in the 1994-1998 convening, and we saw that his professional level was high enough, he was tolerant and respected the opinion of every national deputy, he could also organize a job and present the Supreme Council with dignity. Peter Petrovich Toloczka, I hope there's no point in me representing you know this man. This is a man who respects all intelligence in Ukraine. He is vice president of the National Academy of Sciences, and his work is known not only in Ukraine but also outside Ukraine. And it seems to me that it is this composition that will ensure that Parliament works in an organizational, scientific, legal way and will also have respect for intelligence and for all voters. I think that's what we should be guided by today. I call upon all of you, fellow honourable Members: let us consider everything that has happened to us during our previous cadence, all that leads to coups, forces us under pressure, so to speak, against our own will to make a decision. All of this will surely lead to a crisis in the Supreme Council. We Communists want no crisis, but the whole process of further work is organized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u150	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Valerius Pavlovich, a desert woman, is given a word to justify her position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u151	We can't ask questions because the approved procedure for making a proposal has only 15 minutes, we don't invest.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u152	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Dear National Deputies! I have been instructed by the coordinating board of the authorized representatives of the "One Ukraine" faction to present our package, which proposes: to serve as the Head of the Supreme Council, Litvin Vladimir Mikhajlovich, as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, and to serve as the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Musiaka Viktor Lavrentiovich. Peter Mikolaiovich told us that Adam Ivanovich has great experience in Parliament’s work. I don't reject it, it really is, I treat Adam Ivanovich with great respect. But what I want to say is that I also have great respect for Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, who has experience in the executive branch of the President's Administration. Very many documents and bills were passed through his hands, including, as Peter Mikolaiovich said, on which the veto was imposed. And in view of the consolidation around this package, we could move away from all the issues that have not been resolved today between Parliament and the President's Administration. I also want to say that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin and our faction in general will work not only to create a majority in Parliament but also to consolidate the entire Parliament. Personally, I think, and this is the position of our faction that all MPs in our Parliament are equal, all of our factions have equal rights and authority, and we will only stand for the constructive work of the entire Parliament so that we can be equal. I'd like to ask the distinguished people's deputies to support Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin's candidacy. And on behalf of our faction, the largest faction in Parliament, I assure you that we are going to focus our efforts on the full consolidation of the entire Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u153	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. The word is given to Roman Petrovich Immortal for the submission of the next draft decree. Please, Roman Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u154	Dear National Deputies! By decision of the faction, I am asked to present the draft decree proposed by the faction "Our Ukraine", which provides for the election of the head of the Supreme Council of Ivy Ivan Stepanović, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Turkchinov, Mr. Alexander Valentinović. Briefly on our position, explanations of support for these candidates. Ivy Ivan Stepanovich is our story, this is our experience. And this story, and this experience, should be passed on to us and used not only in terms of yesterday, but also in terms of perspective. I refer to the members of that faction, once the most numerous, and I ask them to mention the words of the classic: "Whoever doesn't know his history, he doesn't deserve his future." That is why we will support John Stepanovich Plush’s candidacy. We propose this option to ensure that the results of the election are taken into account. And the results of the vote are that the second faction of size or second political power that received election support was Communists, so surely the Communists should have their own representative in the leadership of the Supreme Council. And that is what we consider to be Martiniuk Adam Ivanovich, knowing him and at work as the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, and the political contacts and negotiations that we conducted. With regard to the third candidate as deputy, we were out of two options. First. The deputy is entrusted with some of the functions that he has to perform in the Supreme Council, including the problems of the internal organization of Parliament. And Alexander Valentinovich proved, working as head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, that he would handle it. The other one. He represents the political power that held the electoral race with dignity. We propose to support his candidacy. Dear colleagues! We suggest that you support our package, which is made up of the figures above. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u155	Thank you, Roman Petrovich. Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk is given the floor to present the draft decision. I ask candidates for the presidency of the Supreme Council to prepare themselves for answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u156	National Deputy of Ukraine (Balgato-mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Dear National Deputies! When we formed this composition of the packet, this is what we came up with. The largest faction in Parliament, we believe, has the first right to have its own representative in office of the Supreme Council. And we joined this position both essentially and organizationally. Touching the candidate for the position of First Deputy of the Head of Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich. We have considered the work of the last call of the Supreme Council. When Adam Ivanovich held a meeting of the Supreme Council, he followed the Rules. [[The Sound in the Hall]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u157	Colleagues, pay attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u158	I'm glad it caused such emotional excitement in the hall, but I want it to be true. Since Adam Ivanovich held a meeting of the Supreme Council very rarely, this did not affect the outcome of the vote. And the next. As deputy head, we offer no candidate for Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich. This position is proposed by the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine by Zinchenko Alexander Alexiyovich. [[united]] So, what do we achieve? First. There's a timetable of corresponding forces in Parliament that's reflected in this package. The other one. We believe that this composition will provide a fairly high intellectual and cultural level of conduct of parliamentary meetings within the framework of spirituality and the Rules. And the third. This composition of the Supreme Council will ensure normal business cooperation with the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine. And that's the most important thing for us, or we'll turn the Supreme Council back into a centre of opposition to the executive and the President, and then the real work of the Supreme Council will be gone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u159	Thank you, Your Honor Leonid Macarovich. Dear National Deputies! I would ask you to look again at the Order on the procedure for considering the issue of head selection and to look at the point "in." You and I didn't provide statements for candidates for the positions of Vice-Presidents in general, and for candidates for the presidency, we only provided answers to questions. Other candidates, other proposals for the release of packages are or are they not? None. Then let us move on to the implementation of our decree. In accordance with the decision taken in turn, which was proposed, I give the floor to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposed in the first package, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. For answers, please state for 10 minutes. We'll have Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin next. Please register on the basis of a fractional principle. Please record the performance from the scene. The question is given to Vladimir MacKeenk, the faction of "Our Ukraine." Next up is Valentina Petrovna. Turn on the Volodymyr Makeenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u160	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Please pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u161	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u162	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] City hero Odessa, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity." Dear Adam Ivanovich! Of course, we know you as a well-known politician. Please tell me that. Here we sit in this room for more than one day. In addition to political will, what, in addition to understanding, might have hindered the direction to make even normal seats in this room? And what was the problem with you personally? And do you think that the MP should be at the heart of the legislative process, and the job of the speaker, the vice-speaker, is to help this process, not to make only the number of occupational diseases in the MPs increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u163	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you for asking. You're quite right to note that the responsibility of the head of any level, of any institution or enterprise, including the Supreme Council, is to worry about the collectives they lead. I fully agree with you, and I confirm that sitting in those seats where people's deputies are sitting now is not easy. But believe me, sitting in the lobby is even worse than in the session room. That's why I'm completely supportive of you and I need to change that. But seriously, each of you realizes that there is not enough room space to change one of us. Because we have 450 people's deputies, and they're better placed in this session room than they are now, it's very, very difficult, even though the options have to be looked for. And one more thing. You remember when I did my report on the work of the Preparatory MP group, I called specific figures about our funding with you, about our capabilities with you. This is also one of the problems related to the remodeling of the session hall. However, I support you, I need to think about this issue, and the next management of the Supreme Council should try to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u164	Dear Adam Ivanovich! The request to speak is more concise, for not all factions will ask questions. The word is given to Valentina Seminouk of the Socialist Party. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u165	It's a faction of socialists. Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u166	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u167	Adam Ivanovich, please tell me, do you know for today why you were released from your position as First Deputy? Because the wording "for violating the Rules" is completely invalid in the ruling, because I don't remember any cases of violation of the Rules by you. Maybe Kravczuk would have told you, since you used to talk to him. That's the first question. And the second. Imagine this situation: the faction "for rich Ukraine" is proposing its representative as Head, and the deputy is a representative of "poor Ukraine". And the representative of "poor Ukraine" knows that with this leadership, the poor will remain poor, and the rich will be rich, and he doesn't want to be there. Is it possible to consider such an option that others in the proposed package refuse such representation and then consider, perhaps only the question of the "for the rich Ukraine" faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u168	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich, for the interesting questions. I will not go too far into technology, and I think that Leonid Makarovich, representing his package, answered the question that Martinyuka had been released from office as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if not by chance, was mistaken because he said that I had not violated the Rules. It's been a while, let's take it back to that very time. In terms of the poor and the rich, you can probably say, sorry about that word, in this context: if we agreed on a package, it doesn't rule out the removal of a packet of one or the other candidates. But maybe we'll have to go back to talking, not party leaders anymore, but faction leaders, because it's you, party leaders -- then, and now faction leaders, who have agreed that everyone has the right to offer a package. Whatever your will is, it will be the will of those deputies whom you offer in the package.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u169	From the faction of Communists, Matthew’s word is given to Vladimir Josephovich. The next one is Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u170	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] I ask you to pass the word to Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u171	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u172	The Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich! As the national deputies of the previous Supreme Council call know, 47 percent of all the laws we have adopted have been vetoed by the President. [[And this was confirmed yesterday by Ivan Stepanovich Plush in his report]] This is probably really good for the Guinness Book of Records, because there is hardly any such example in the world practice of parliamentaryism. But Adam Ivanovich, perhaps the Parliament, the supreme legislative body of our nation, has great reserves to improve all our legislative work. In your opinion, will we be able to change the situation for the better in dealing with bills and other legal acts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u173	Thank you. Before answering that question specifically, because we, the Supreme Council, are often accused of not adopting the necessary laws or of not adopting them, I would like to say that. The laws are passed enough, the trouble is not done. With regard to improving legislation and the veto and so forth. I personally see one of the real ways of solving this problem is that we need to adopt the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act in every way and restore the regulatory standards of the period when we did not adopt 150 laws every Thursday and we did not remember what we voted on. [[It's probably because of that, and the veto.]] We need to work the way we are now working at the beginning of this session: we ask questions, we discuss, we make decisions -- and we move on. If we work in this mode, I'm sure that the productivity of our work is not going to be 47 percent, but 80 percent, maybe more.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u174	The word is given to Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u175	Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor". Adam Ivanovich, I have three questions for you. Judging from the proposed packages, you're the most popular MP for this call. Aren't you afraid that such popularity can cloud your head and can you handle the copper pipes? That's the first one. The other one. Please tell me, do you agree with the package delivered today by Mr. Kuchma? [[I didn't get your answer to Frost's question.]] If you disagree, will you withdraw your candidacy from this package? And the third question. I'm sorry, maybe it's not quite up to you. I wanted to introduce him to Mr. Simone, but that's not the procedure. I think you know what happens in factions. Tell me, please, about this package that you are defending or representing as a candidate for Headship, is your proposal consistent with the faction? If so, then tell us in what way and if not, do you not find it wrong to make names without agreeing with factions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u176	Thank you. I'll answer two questions with your permission, and as for the question to be addressed to the faction manager, I think if the chairman's will comes, he'll give the floor to answer. As far as popularity is concerned. This may be related to the fact that the preparatory group I had the privilege of taking the lead worked quite productively, as is evident from the beginning of our work. And in that case, whether it's dizzy or not, I'm going to say two words. You know, Anatoly Sergiyovich, that in my life I've held various positions. I was the first secretary of one of the party's largest city committees, and then I became unemployed and worked as a candidate for science, a night watchman. Then I became the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know what happened after that. So I've already had the period you're talking about, and I think I don't need to worry about it, and I'm ready for everything, and I'm more popular. As to whether I was accepted by those who applied for my candidacy. Except for one package, which is being submitted on behalf of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, in other packages offered by other political forces, my candidacy was not accepted. [[And this package was agreed upon at the highest level, by our highest political leadership with the participation of all party committee leaders, the entire composition of our party.]] So we're gonna get out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u177	The time for questions is exhausted. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The word for replication is given to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, briefly, only information. According to my initiative, the factions' leaders agreed with the suggestion that each leader would put three candidates to his own discretion as Head, First Deputy and Deputy. I was the first to initiate this proposal. And during the discussion of our package, which includes both Musiyak and Toloczko, the faction leaders were not spoken out against. [[meant - communication]] That's why we, given that we didn't have any comments, introduced this project for the consideration of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u179	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina is given a word for answers to questions. Let's talk about it. We have a few more minutes. We can give the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich, then a few minutes to the head of the Counting Commission and announce a recess. Do we agree? The chairman has the right to continue the session for 15 minutes, and we'll be in. I announced Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please sign up for the question. The word is given to Shevchuku Sergei, the representative of the bloc, "For the One Ukraine!".. The next one is Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u180	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You are a new figure in Parliament, to which interest is significant. You've been put on two factions as Head of the Supreme Council. How do you see the initiation of more constructive work in Parliament than was the previous cadence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u181	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] First of all, it's taking into account the interests of the MPs, the MPs and the people's deputies and the flooding, the transformation of these interests into the one, the whole Ukrainian policy that we have to pursue. I think that's what's important and specific. Plus working closely with the government and with the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u182	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Alexandria by the faction of the Communist Party. The next one is Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u183	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Please tell me, have you been familiar with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules or are you going to be guided here by the administrative resources to which you are accustomed, including during the electoral campaign?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u184	Thank you for asking. I don't think you have any reason to say that I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u185	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u186	I don't think you have any reason to say I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u187	Please don't bother!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u188	I want to say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u189	Deputies! Let's respect each other. The MP asked her own language, let her answer. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u190	Once again, I am told that I have been brought up to answer and speak to a person in the language in which I was addressed. I don't think you have any reason to accuse me of using administrative resources. I have come to work in Parliament to make Parliament's work productive, effective and useful in general for the State. I have been guided by the laws and I intend to be guided solely by the Rules, which must become effective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u191	The question is given to John Sidorovich Bokom, the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u192	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Please pass the word to Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u194	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. First of all, I would ask the governors to act out of decency and not applaud. You're not allowed to do that. If you've been summoned here by the President, talk to him with applause, not with us. Keep your hands where I can see them! I understand your chief is standing in the rostrum, but stay out of Ecstasy. Now, let's ask you a question, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we know about your plagiarism of foreign articles. Let that be on your conscience. We know that you've made a colossal contribution on the basis of so-called inventions in the gas field with Mr. Bakay. So far, it's for the preservation of your law enforcement agencies now. But the whole world knows that you were part of the President's criminal talks when he ordered the removal of journalist Gongadze. Do you imagine a Ukrainian speaker who is not accepted anywhere in the world who will not be given a decent hand?Oh, my God! Is such a parliament and such a speaker worthy of our 50 million-dollar country?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u195	Thank you for asking. I knew it would be. I have to say that on Alexander Alexander Moroz, I have prepared papers in court for the "non-visitable speaker," and we will show him enough stamps in the passport to see where I was. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been to the United States, where I've been admitted to a level where no socialist party has been received so far, which is very much sought. [[Applause]] The other one. I was accepted by the President of the Russian Federation. I don't think Alexander Alexander Frost and Lucenka will accept it. [[Applause]] Third. About plagiarism in English. I am very grateful to the national deputy Lucenka for his excellent English knowledge and for his ability to read the article. I know this development, and I know who it was planned for. Next moment on the Gongadze case. I must say, fellow officers, only that when Mr. Lucenko was in my office in the presence of witnesses, Mr. Lucenko spoke quite differently. [[We don't have a record yet, you know?]] And again, it still lies for a while, as you said, for preservation. And the last. I want to protect the representatives of the district administrations, the district councils and apologize to them for you because they were invited by the Supreme Council. You shouted that there was no President and others today, and again it was the decision of the Preparatory MP group to invite you after the election of leadership. And I'd like you not to act on the shuller principle. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u196	The word is given to Stephen Ilkovich of the Cloud from the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u197	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the well - known films of Major Melnick are found to be reliable and unmountable. You appear to be part of the criminal conspiracy to eliminate journalist George Gongadze. I would like to ask you whether you have a conscience problem, do you have the right to be a national MP in accordance with appropriate moral principles, and has anyone in your faction violated this question by recommending you to be the head of the sole legislative authority of our nation?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u198	Can I answer that? Thank you for asking. We have smart people in the faction, and they don't discuss stupid questions. [[Applause]] I want to tell you with the same success that I am a national MP as you are. If my conscience can trouble me, perhaps you have reason to be plagued by it, it is a conscience. I think if you're interested and you're asking these questions, you should pay attention to the latest American congressmen who said that in Ukraine they're using gossip. So I'd like the national MP not to be using gossip, all the more deserving than you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u199	The question is given to Jaroslav Kendzior by the faction "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u200	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine," the National Movement of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you can thank me in advance for saving you from a very scandalous situation here at this moment. I was asked to pass on the word Rephat Chubarov to ask you a question in Crimean Tatar, and we would all be waiting for the answer in that language because you said that you had been taught to answer in the language you were asked from an early age. That's right, by the way. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're a scientist, you're a doctor, you're a historian. Does it not work in the Presidential Administration or does it not have any political logic at all? Because the winner of the election was our Ukraine, it's common knowledge. And make such tremendous efforts that both the President and the Head of his Administration have made to bring the victory of the Ukrainian people to nothing. How, as it were, can we do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u201	Mr. Jaroslave, by the way, I can answer the honourable national deputy Chubarov: I would try if questions were put in such a plane, learn the necessary words, and prove them to him. That's the first one. The other one. Again, I would like to say, by the way, that in order to solve the Crimean Tatar problems, perhaps the President’s Administration has done much more than talk and inclusion in the faction of certain people. It's also a reality. Third. When you talk about logic, your logic seems absurd to me, because the results of the election victory are evidenced by the faction's number. And today you can't make up for the lack of achievement of your results by some kind of machination. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not afraid of anyone, I don't owe anyone anything, but I want to say that I'm more patriot than any of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u202	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, time is up. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u203	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been received from the People’s Deputies of the Frost. According to the Rules, he is entitled to a replica because his name was called. Please, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u205	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In fact, when the name is mentioned in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, there is nothing wrong with it, but when they try to offend it, it testifies to the essence of the person involved. I want to say that being both out of the ocean and in Moscow, I've met with those with whom the program was designed, and it doesn't matter who she's dating, what's going on here, what's going on, what's going on. A revision of that, I don't think, is a place in this session room, but it kind of shows that Vladimir Mikhailovich is informed, because he even knows that I don't know. And now for the defense of the honor of Deputy Yuri Lucenka, my colleague. He knows four other languages besides Ukrainian, so prepare for the next talk in different languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, the secretariat has received information that we have invited the heads of the districts with you, but only for the opening of the session. Ask for a word for Litwin's line. Just please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't call my last name so I won't have to give my word again. Please. And Chubarov insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u207	I would like to say about tolerance and resentment. I never went down to the image and kept my mouth shut for a very long time, but I think if anyone picks up and reads some newspapers, what they say. - in order not to name names, - some of the national authorities, it's a level that can't be lowered below the plentuse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u208	The word is given to Rephat Chubarov. I also ask you not to call your last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u209	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I would like to confirm that in recent years, the executive branch and the President's Administration and the government have done much to solve the problems of Crimean Tatars and other deporteds. But I'm talking about something else. When here, in the Supreme Council, there is a problem with the language that deputies should speak, and when some of my colleagues say that they can speak only Russian, then I want to ask, and why should others not speak their own language? I want to warn the MPs that insist that they have the right to speak only in Russian. Then I'm just asking the secretariat: prepare the translators, because I'm really going to switch to Crimean Tatar, and I have the same right to speak my own language as the MPs who speak Russian. But I appeal to another: Let’s not spend any of our money and learn the national language! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-15-m0.u210	Dear National Deputies! The time allocated for the morning session is exhausted. Let us consult: Shall we announce a break or continue? Call it a break. The morning session is closed. A break of 16 hours is announced. Thank you.
