ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. A total of 299 national deputies registered. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. A draft Cooperation Act is being introduced. He will report to the Minister of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine Schlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u2	Minister of Economy and European Integration of Ukraine. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Cooperation Act. The cooperative movement is driven by the need for citizens and businesses, primarily small ones, to combine efforts to meet their economic and social needs. Unfortunately, Ukraine’s cooperatives have not yet been widely developed, with an estimated number of more than 30,000 for today. At the same time, cooperative relations have become widely distributed abroad: there are 765 million people worldwide in cooperatives; the European Union, for example, 46 percent of the population are members of cooperatives; and the United States and Japan, more than 30 percent. One of the reasons for the lack of cooperation in Ukraine is the absence of a law that defines the basic principles of their functioning. In fact, the basic law for today is the USSR Cooperation Act, adopted in 1998. Regrettably, most of the rules of this law have lost their relevance today. There are also two laws that regulate relations in two areas of the agricultural and consumer cooperative. Of these, we believe, only the Ukrainian Agricultural Cooperation Act meets the requirements of today. The legislation on consumer co-operation is outdated, needs updating, and the relevant bill today will also be considered. The legislative arrangement in this area gives impetus to a cooperative movement. Let me give you an example. The adoption of the Law on Agricultural Cooperation contributed to the development of market relations in agriculture. Since the beginning of the law, namely, from the second half of 1997, 848 agricultural cooperatives, 387 multifunctional and 233 service providers, have been established in the village. In other areas of cooperation, there is virtually no, I repeat, legislative regulation. So today, during the resumption of cooperation, it is extremely urgent to adopt a basic Cooperation Law that defines basic principles and principles, systematizes types of cooperatives, regulates the formation and operation of cooperatives and their integration. The bill proposed for your consideration sets out such basic principles. The basic tasks and principles of cooperative organizations have been established and are in line with the principles of the International Cooperative Alliance. The definition of cooperatives, the establishment of cooperatives and cooperatives, the selection of their management and control bodies, the rights and responsibilities of members of cooperatives, the regulation of property and labour relations in the cooperative, international activity, and the relationship between cooperatives and the state. The draft law defines cooperation as "a system of cooperative organizations designed to satisfy the economic, social and other needs of their members." The cooperative is defined as “a legal person made up of natural and/or legal persons who have voluntarily joined themselves together on the basis of membership to conduct joint economic and other activities in order to satisfy their economic, social and other needs for self-government”. Industrial cooperatives operate in a similar way to enterprises, with a view to earning profits. Servants and consumer cooperatives are created to provide services to their participants and are not intended to generate profits. The adoption of the law will increase the number of cooperative organizations and their members, increase the well - being of the broad population, improve the economic performance of enterprises, including small business entities, and increase the employment rate of the population. The introduction of this law, we think, will also help to unlock the entrepreneurial potential of the nation, to further develop market relations and to strengthen democratic principles in society. Regarding the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. The main point of management is the inadequacy of the draft civil code bill. In fact, there is some inadequacy, but the draft Civil Code, I want to remind you, is today only a project, and this bill is fully in line with the Civil Code. We couldn't draft a bill based on the position of a project that had yet to be adopted. I would also like to point out that when this draft law was drafted, we used the Master Code to our fullest extent. Indeed, the drafts of the Code of Masters and Civil Codes are not yet agreed upon, especially in the Code of Lords, using the term "economic cooperative" and the draft Civil Code uses the term "production cooperative". So we cannot agree with the conclusion that it is necessary to postpone consideration of the bill until the final edition of the Civil Code is adopted. I think with the adoption of the Civil Code, we're going to have to make changes to not one hundred laws, but in the meantime, we're going to have to develop a cooperative movement. If we need to make changes to certain definitions, I'm sure we can bring them together. Taking into account what has been said, we propose to adopt the draft Ukrainian Cooperation Act in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u3	Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. The word is given to Kostinyuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u4	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter! You discussed it when you said that the USSR Cooperation Act was adopted in 1998, which was in 1988. I listened very carefully to your report, I had a few questions, and I want to understand why do we need this Cooperation Act? We have lived successfully, for the twelfth year without this law, for the time being, there are laws on businesses and businesses that completely regulate entrepreneurial activities. That's the first question. Next. Today we will also consider the draft Law on Consumer Cooperation, which you have also submitted. But when we're going to look at the bills, say, the service collaboration, the economic cooperation that you're re-defining in your bill? And the third, perhaps most important, is the most interesting question about consumer cooperation. How do you tell the economy minister, please, who owns the consumer co-operation today? In my mind, de jure is almost the entire population of Ukraine -- a totally rural population and a part of the urban population, which are mammals. It's actually a big farm. A limited group of people manages the property of consumer cooperatives. Who owns it? Confirm or disprove my claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u5	Thank you. First of all, I would like to emphasize once again: before the laws are passed by specialized, necessary basic law, where the general principles common to all cooperatives will be laid down. [[in this case, these are laws on service cooperatives, refinements on manufacturing cooperatives.]] This is the necessity of such a law. Indeed, the Business Act, which regulates the activities of small businesses, is in force today. But if you get to know the bill carefully, you'll see that a cooperative and a small enterprise is, as they say in Odessa, two big differences: both by the principle of creation and by the principle of distribution of participation and rations. [[He's pretty solid, and I'd like to take a look at him.]] The most important, indeed, is the principle of difference: a small enterprise creates the owner, and there are hired workers, and a manufacturing cooperative is created in equal pies for the physical use of the people who created it. But the most important thing about this law, as far as I'm concerned, is that it sets out the principles not even of manufacturing cooperatives, but of consumer cooperatives, which we're going to talk about, and of service cooperatives. [[Because, in fact, it's a field, really, a lot of things can be covered by small businesses.]] Note article 23, which says that these cooperatives do not have a goal of profit. I am convinced that it is because of the absence of such a standard that we do not have housing cooperatives or others who must be in a normal state and that all our neighbors are actively using such forms. As long as we don't do this, we're not going to do this, this movement is going to be closed to us. As far as consumer cooperatives are concerned, I've given you general principles, as it were. We can only refer to cooperatives that today actually have leftovers from consumer cooperatives, but not the agricultural enterprises that you're talking about. There's a big difference here again. Perhaps more details about what the Law on Consumer Cooperation will govern will be given by the head of the Ukrkkooppilka in his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u6	Onichuk Mikolo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u7	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's a faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine. Dear Mr. Minister! In reporting on the draft law, you said that the development of the cooperative movement was restrained by the lack of proper legal principles for the activities of cooperative organizations. It's true and it's true and it's true. You also cited examples of cooperative movement in countries with developed economies, where cooperative principles are an important factor in the formation of a market economy and employment in general. Along with that fact, in Ukraine, especially in recent years, including in the reform of agriculture, the transformation of former CCPs into new organizational forms, cooperative principles have not been properly applied. If you have such data, please tell us what part of GDP is currently being produced in cooperatives, what is the total number of cooperatives in Ukraine, and why do you think that Ukraine is developing so weakly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u8	Thank you for asking. So far, I can only give you this data: the share of 30,000 cooperatives in GDP is less than 1 percent. [[These are all cooperatives operating in Ukraine.]] I talked about the reasons in my report, the main reason is the absence of a normal legislative settlement. If we adopt laws on co-operation and consumer co-operation, there will still be legislation on separate cooperatives in the manufacturing and service industries, then, I'm sure, we'll create a legal field. I gave an example of when, over the last two years, we received almost a thousand cooperatives with a good basis for further development. [[I'm saying again, I'd like not to be confused with agricultural enterprises.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u9	Lechenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u10	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! Indeed, in Ukraine today, the USSR Cooperation Act is in force, and the Government's introduction of the bill is an attempt to form its own legislative framework. But please tell me, how does the bill introduced differ in principle from the law in force?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u11	Thank you. The principal differences for today are two. First of all, we introduce the concept more broadly than in the law of the Soviet Union. There are two main types of manufacturing and consumer cooperatives, and we want to include cooperatives. This is what I've been trying to explain to you in the example of residential cooperatives. They weren't predicted, and the base under them wasn't created. So we're introducing another special type of cooperative that needs a separate legislative arrangement. And the second principle of difference is that we set a special standard, according to which service consumer cooperatives are not created for profit. This will allow them to register in the tax administration as non-profit-paying entities and to work exclusively to meet their own needs -- directly for the maintenance of either the house or the garage. Taxpayers will not come to them every day with income, income, and so forth for tax purposes. These are two principles of difference, they're important, I think we should agree with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u12	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u13	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[electoral district 79, Zaporezki region]] It's all right. Alexandre Vitaliyovich, the need to adopt a basic Cooperation Act that would determine the legal, organizational, economic and social principles of cooperation in Ukraine does not call me, I think, no doubt in anyone. But please tell me, does this bill provide for changes to existing legislation, because you already have a conflict with the draft Civil Code?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u14	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, thank you. Your question helps me to answer another very important question. Of course, if we adopt a basic law, other legislation should be amended. Not the Civil Code, because it's just a project, it's not accepted yet, if we accept it, we'll fix it. There is another disagreement that has been rightly addressed by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. It's about what we do, for example, with consumer cooperation. Because they're mostly manufacturing cooperatives, they're making revenue that needs to be taxed. And according to our terminology, we're introducing the term "food cooperative" as one that's not going to make any profit. Traditionally, it has happened since the Soviet Union that the structures we call consumer cooperation in rural areas are not cooperatives, they are consumer societies. Here we have to distribute these things, we're going to do it neatly, quietly, and we're going to sort it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u15	Please sit, Alexander Vitaliovich. The word for the report is given to the deputy chairman of the committee of Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u16	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment considered the draft Ukrainian Cooperation Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers on 3 June 2002. The draft defines the general scope of cooperation in Ukraine as a single system of cooperative organizations established to meet the economic, social and other needs of members of cooperative societies. Such a project is necessary because in this area, apart from national legislation, the rules of the USSR Cooperation Act continue to apply. The purpose of the bill is to revive and develop the mass cooperative movement in Ukraine, to create a cooperative sector of the national economy, to expand the self-sustainment of the population through the generally recognized cooperative principles of the world community. The purpose of the bill is: to define the concepts of “cooperation”, “co-operative organization”, to ensure the operation in Ukraine of the principles of cooperation recognized by the world community, to define the main types and tasks of cooperative organizations, to establish the general order of establishment and operation of cooperative organizations, to define the special status of cooperative organizations and to conduct economic activities, to regulate State relations and to cooperate. There are now 29 000,892 cooperative organizations in Ukraine. Today, it is not possible to say how many of them are genuine cooperatives whose activities are consistent with cooperative principles. Membership and participation in the economic activities of cooperative organizations provides an opportunity to better meet their economic and consumer needs, increase well-being and avoid waste. Ukraine's Cooperation Act was needed primarily because cooperative forms of management would undoubtedly bring economic benefits to the State. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends the adoption of a bill after the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Code. In its decision, the members of the Committee considered that the absence of a law on the general basis of cooperation had led to contradictions with the generally accepted provisions governing cooperative movement in the world and had created some difficulties in dealing with the practical tasks of cooperation. The Committee therefore recommends the adoption of the draft Act on first-reading cooperation, taking into account the specific laws on selected types of cooperative organizations. It should be noted, however, that the adoption of the new Civil Code is likely to be problematic in the near future. The relevant draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Cooperation Act was prepared by the Committee and submitted for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u17	Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. The word is given by Matthew’s Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u18	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Dear Vladimir Yosifovich! Of course, this issue must be resolved by law; this is certainly not an issue or a question. But as a representative of the committee who should be interested in the development of this movement, please state your opinion on the problem that today arises with the cooperative movement. There's no secret to anyone that this structure actually shows, let's say, half, maybe a quarter of the people who actually work in it. We have no information on the real economic situation of this structure, nor on the actual tax returns to be levied, nor do we have a proper system of control over the activities of these enterprises. That, I think, is what's causing special anxiety and anxiety to this day. Indeed, there has been almost a push, and I should be concerned about the proper organization of accounting and monitoring, in particular the income tax, of the creation of new jobs. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u19	You're absolutely right. It was a law on the cooperation of a socialist State, which, let us say, is totally not applicable in the bourgeois state in which we live. We've changed our forms of property, our economic relations, and in general, our social protection has become completely different, based on other principles. Therefore, the proposed draft law must agree on all these new developments in our lives. To be frank, the Cooperation Act, adopted in 1988, did not reflect the need for those cooperatives to be organized at that time. For example, in regions where there was a shortage of labour, these cooperatives simply increased labour shortages, and in those regions where there was a surplus of labour, such as in Ivano-Frankovsky, Zakarpatsky, cooperatives had indeed created prerequisites for the creation of new jobs and the organization of work for people who could not be mainly employed. Social protection issues had been addressed, protection had been addressed in the event of trauma, in the event of retirement, many issues had been resolved by law. Conditions have changed now. And you're absolutely right that cooperatives, acting on the basis of the old law and not having their particularity reflected in the new taxation laws and others, have really gone out of control today. Putting them under State control is one of the tasks of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u20	Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u21	It's a faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine. Dear reporter! My question is similar to what just sounded like the minister's address. You were just talking about state control over the creation of cooperatives, their activity, and actually the cooperative movement. I think it's better not to talk about control, but to encourage the state to develop cooperative movement. At the same time, since you've been studying this issue, I'd probably like to express your point of view on this problem. Why did Ukraine have a proper cooperative movement as such, despite what you called the number of cooperatives, and it was not significant? The fact that there is no legislative basis is correct in part because there are certain regulations, by the way, and the law of the USSR, which is still valid today, because it is applied in a part that is not contrary to the laws of Ukraine. It's kind of the right explanation, but it's not complete. It seems to me that there was a lack of a conscious state policy to stimulate development, including taxation, pricing, aid, employment, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u22	I think you're right here, too, and there was no public policy in the development of the cooperative movement. Well, at least an example of this is that almost 14 years after the adoption of the law of a socialist State, the draft Cooperation Act is being introduced. You're absolutely right, there was no government policy, it's on the one hand. On the other hand, we switched to market relations and made a person feel like private property. And now to unite this personal, private property in no movement does it want without a certain incentive, with a clear incentive. I therefore believe that there have been three major shortcomings in the development of the cooperative movement: the lack of a legislative framework, the lack of public policy and the lack of a normal interest of owners in the development of the cooperative movement.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u23	Thank you, please sit down, Vladimir Josephovich. Are they willing to take part in the discussion? None. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Cooperation Act is being introduced. [[new editor]] Reported Ukoopspielica Babenko’s head of government, Stanislav Grigorovich. Please. It's been ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u24	Head of Government of the Central Union of Consumer Associations of Ukraine. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Consumer Cooperation Act is proposed. The draft of this legislative act, first of all, takes into account the changes that have taken place in the legislation of Ukraine within ten years of the adoption of the current Consumer Cooperation Act, and second of all, it is based on the provisions and requirements of the draft Cooperation Act that you have considered today. Considering that this bill contains a large number of changes and additions to the current Ukrainian Consumer Cooperation Act, it is presented in the form of a new edition. In the law in force, 18 articles, 36 articles, not 44 articles, were proposed in the bill, as was mistakenly stated in the Mineconomy Explanatory Note to the bill. The conceptual idea and the ultimate goal of the bill is to protect the interests of members of consumer societies, to better satisfy their economic, social and cultural needs, to ensure that the principles of social justice are respected, and to strengthen the role and impact of members of consumer societies on the activities of consumer cooperatives and businesses. Taking into account the current and practice of international cooperative movement, the draft law sets out the basic principles of consumer co-operation; specifies the order of creation, entry and termination of membership in consumer society, association; elaborates on the mandate of control and control authorities of consumer societies and communities; regulates the ownership of consumer associations and associations; establishes the principles of their economic and social activities; and defines the order of reorganization and liquidation. Among the proposed changes are the following. Identifying a list of issues relating to the exclusive competence of the general congregations of the consumer society. Section IV "The ownership of consumer co-operation" of the new regulation defines the sources of consumer society property formation, provides the right of consumer societies and associations to create statutory, pie, reserve, extra and other capitals. [[non-participating public]] [[foundations]] The section is supplemented by articles on rations and rations for members of consumer societies, the ownership of consumer associations, associations, and their members. Section V, Economic and Social Activities of Consumer Associations and Associations, has been amended, and has been presented in separate articles, with regard to the income of consumer associations and associations and their use, cooperative payments and payment of portions of income for pies; it has introduced a rule that does not divide assets between members when the consumer society or association is eliminated; it is passed on to other cooperative organizations with a specific definition of how to use them. The draft law is supplemented by an article on association in consumer association or association. It should be stressed that the implementation of the draft law does not require additional material and other expenses. The adoption of the law will make it possible to improve the efficiency of businesses and consumer cooperative organizations, to ensure that consumers’ needs and benefits are met and that their welfare is improved, to protect the social interests and property rights of consumer societies and communities. To conclude, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine has brought together scientists from the economic institutions of the National Academy of Sciences, leading legal practitioners and consumer cooperative practices. The draft law is agreed with Minfin, Minyust, the State Enterprise without notice. Regarding the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority on the bill under consideration. First of all, we appreciate the management's deep and comprehensive analysis of the draft law, the principle of assessing its position, and the proposals made. Secondly, we believe that in his report, the Minister of Economics and European Integration made it clear that the procedure for passing and seeing the implementation of this law. And last but not least, we believe that the vast majority of the comments and additions expressed by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office to the draft law can be taken into account in the revision to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u25	Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. Please, Nightmare.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u26	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 160, Sumska oblast]] Dear Stanislav Grigorovich! Each of those present in this room is to some extent part of the consumer cooperative system. In my opinion, it was closest to market relations, but unfortunately today we see it destroyed. For example, in my neighborhood in each of the second locations, your objects do not work. Moreover, you cannot do what you have on the farm. I have a question. Did your system, which is in force under the old law, mean a trading network, a processing industry, and public food? The other one. Will you be in this session room addressing the issue of benefits? You can guarantee that the benefits will be here. And the third question. Do you agree that Ukooppilka’s assets, created by the population, people, are not used for a long period of time, such as two years, to be recognized as ungoverned and passed on to the balance of the rural community for further use? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u27	The first question is about networking and processing. What I'm saying is that more than half of the businesses in the consumer cooperative are working today, and they're working normally. And where people work in the centers and work normally with authority in places, you can see the results. As far as the network is concerned. The network that was in operation until the adoption of the Law on Consumer Cooperation was built by a completely different founder. Unfortunately, there was such a situation that cooperation in the countryside was a monopoly. Now it's not there, but the network is, it's created and it's working. Property that is not used today is entitled to be managed by consumer associations, associations, or rations that make appropriate decisions on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u28	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u29	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear Stanislav Grigorovich! In this room ten years ago, even more, we voted in favour of a law that virtually took control of all property, not of the members of the food society, but of officials, starting with the head of Ukooppilka, the leaders of the district organizations and all the villages. [[I was also a national MP back then.]] Now there was a need to bring this law under today’s management style and to manage all this property further. So you're offering us this new law. I'll play, I'll tell you what I think of him. But I'm probably reading this line: "In case of termination of membership in consumer society, a person has the right to receive pie in kind, in cash or, at will, in securities" and so forth. [[pears]] I have a specific question for you: did any Ukrainian citizen who is listening to us now turn to you and say, "I'm leaving the company, here's my little book, give me back my pie?" Was there one such appeal, and how did you respond? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u30	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, that is, indeed, yes. You've been actively involved in the adoption of that law. I think you'll do it now. And this is what it all comes down to. Yes, indeed, ten years ago we adopted the Law on Consumer Cooperation. This law has made it possible to practically preserve and develop consumer cooperation. And the property of this cooperation is, it didn't go anywhere. That's the first one. And the second. As to whether spiders were turning or coming out and getting pies, I want to tell you this. Yes, there have been quite serious disturbances in the market economy of the consumer cooperative system. On January 1, 1991, there were about 13 million rations in consumer cooperatives. Now we have 1 million 200 thousand rations, and all those rations that came out of consumer co-operation, and we analyzed, we got our rations and our rations. It really is. If you need statistics, I can give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u31	Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u32	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[constituency 144, Odessa Region]] Thank you. It's a faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Dear Stanislav Grigorovich! Please tell me what will change with the adoption of this law? Are there a number of important social and economic issues, such as the provision of services, job growth and employment, and the promotion of a competitive market environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u33	I would like to say that the question of consumer co-operation as a self-governing organization depends largely on how the state is going to deal with all these issues. If the state seriously supports the development of the village, the development of consumer cooperation, or cooperation at all, there will, of course, be serious changes for the better as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u34	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u35	Thank you. The fraction of the SDPO(s). Stanislav Grigorovich, I have two questions. First. I don't understand, for example, why we're looking at this bill today if we don't have a base number 1141. No one ever does that. The other one. I share the view of the MPs who have already spoken here, particularly the Noshchenka colleagues, with the adoption of this bill, that the principles of democracy will be definitively eliminated in the Ukrainian consumer co-operation, because the law introduces rules that are not acceptable to such an organization. In particular, look at article 11, which has already been quoted here. So tell me, do you not find it appropriate to agree with the proposal to create a joint government-deputy commission to study the situation in Ukospice and then to write laws and think about how to get out of that position?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u36	People's deputies and the Supreme Council can make any decision to study the issue in any organization, including consumer co-operation, but it doesn't interfere with the adoption of the law. And as for democracy, I would like to say that. In 1992, we passed the Consumer Cooperation Act, and this year we became part of the International Cooperative Alliance, where the Consumer Cooperation Act examined democracy, principles and other requirements that exist in the International Cooperative Alliance. So the charges in this regard are not entirely justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u37	Droguncs Sergey Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u38	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Stanislav Grigorovich! I know that in the years of Soviet power, consumer co-operation was a powerful organization, a kind of state in the state, and it had a strong material technology base, developed industries -- cooking, manufacturing, trading and so on. That law that we passed, which I voted for at the time, helped prevent it from being finally destroyed by those deputies who today want a lot of democracy. It was stretched and continued to stretch. So I think that the new law will actually help achieve that goal. I will personally support him. Now, in a few words, what's left of a former consumer cooperative?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u39	You can take that question differently. But the answer is very short and appropriate. There's a material and technical base, it's 25,000 stores, it's a wholesale base, it's a public food business, it's a bread business, it's 170,000 people working today in a consumer cooperative system. We can take these numbers differently. But today we have other structures that are engaged in commercial services, manufacturing, and manufacturing in the countryside. So there's a collaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u40	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u41	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The Reform and Order Party, the faction of our Ukraine. Dear Stanislav Grigorovich! You and I have been working on these problems in that first warehouse of the Supreme Council. I regret to inform you that my constituency no longer has consumer facilities. And that's when I called you reasons. But that's not even the point. It would be good if you could give us a positive example of where she stayed and worked. Let's think about it. Consumer cooperation was created when people did not contribute to the total amount of the pie community, then built, and very powerfully built, commercial objects and so forth. Each spider had a profit. But now that there's competition, when, for example, in Lviv there's a South Market for 7,000 jobs, it's a whole city where almost the whole area is going, can you stand competition under those completely different, new rules if we continue to stand up for them? [[He was organized by a national MP who is currently sitting in this room.]] Or is it going to be something else?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u42	Mikhail Vasilovich, thank you. Yes, indeed, you and I wanted to stop the collapse of the area. And unfortunately, it didn't work out for me or you. That's the first one. The second is about competition. I'd like to say this to you. The state needs to have a level playing field for various owners. Level conditions! When these are equal conditions, there will be no questions. Now, unfortunately, there are no equal conditions. And that's a very serious and important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u43	Mishur Valery Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u44	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear reporter! I have a very short question. How will the new law form the governing bodies of consumer cooperatives, and will there be appointments to executive positions in general, and how does this order differ from that established by the law? Because I have the impression that in our cooperation, which is now in existence, it's a lifelong goal of self-determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u45	Before and today, election positions are chosen by the levels of those rations and their representatives that should be chosen. And I'd like to say, if people are prepared for this job, they're doing the right thing. But at all levels of our work, we must have positions of choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u46	All right, Stanislav Grigorovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u48	As reported by Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, deputy head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u49	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Economic Policy, Public Administration, Property and Investment considered the draft new version of the Consumer Cooperation Act submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on 23 May 2002 as an urgent one. The draft law was prepared pursuant to the Presidential Decree of 19 December 2000 on measures to develop the cooperative movement and strengthen its role in the reform of Ukraine's economy on a market-based basis and the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of 26 December 2000. Nearly two years have passed since the adoption of these documents, and the draft law has now emerged. The draft new version of the Ukrainian Consumer Cooperation Act aims to further improve the legal regulation of consumer cooperation activities, to facilitate and enhance its activities. The concept of the bill is to protect the interests of members of consumer societies, to ensure respect for the principles of social justice and to strengthen the role and impact of members of consumer societies on the activities of organizations and enterprises of consumer cooperation. The purpose of the bill is to enhance consumer co-operation, strengthen and expand its logistics base and improve and meet the economic, social and cultural needs of members of consumer cooperatives. The Chief Research and Expert Office of the Supreme Council recommends the adoption of a bill after the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Code. However, the Committee believes that the existence of an outdated legal framework in the area of consumer cooperation will have a negative impact on both the activities of consumer cooperation itself and the economy of the State. The Committee therefore recommends the adoption of the draft law on consumer cooperation on first reading. In doing so, it is proposed that the draft Ukrainian Cooperation Act, which we have reported several times before, be adopted and that, in preparing both projects for adoption by the Committee as a whole, the Committee should first recommend for adoption the draft Cooperation Act and the following for consumer cooperation in a new edition. The relevant draft regulation is submitted by the Committee. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. The word is given to Kostinjuk Bogdan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u51	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter! In your brief report, you still haven't convinced yourself that you haven't stopped to ask why a new bill is better than an active law. If you can do it in one minute, please explain the differences and advantages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u52	Well, it's impossible to do that in one minute, you have to put two laws next door and look. The point is: the old Consumer Cooperation Act worked in a socialist society. There was, as you recall, a monopoly of the State on external economic activities. Exclusion was made for demand operation. It was, and you're not going anywhere. At the time, there was a planned management system, where all the indicators were planned for demand operations as well. This is nothing today, so we need a completely new law on consumer cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u53	You don't have to argue. Rudzkowski Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u54	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] A socialist party. I want to ask you this question: Did you, as experts, become acquainted with the Ukooppilka Charter Committee? As a national MP, I have come to know and I want to say that this statute does not correspond to the legal field of Ukraine. So don't you think it's appropriate to set up a special commission of inquiry to analyse the situation of consumer co-operation in Ukraine and then follow the commission's recommendation to return to the adoption of the relevant law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u55	The fact that the statute of the operation does not correspond to the current time, questions and doubts is likely to be met by no one. Here is Chairman of the Ukrkopsyuza Babenko, responding to the question of the formation of the governing bodies of the demand operation, which is precisely what these vices have revealed. I believe that the adoption of the Consumer Cooperation Act will lead to the need to revise the law on procurement in Ukraine. As for the establishment of an investigative commission, I do not think that there is a need. This is not a question of today's agenda. If you have any suggestions for the establishment of such an investigative commission, please submit them. We have not considered this issue in the Committee, especially since no major law has yet been enacted on the basis of the work of the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u56	Thank you. Ivchenko Olexy Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u57	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. I wanted to ask the head of Ukoopspielka, but perhaps you, as a co-reporter, would answer it. And the first reporter, and you talked about protecting the interests of the farmers today. As I understand it, the biggest interest of the rations is to capitalize their property and pay dividends on their pies. Do you know, or if not, how many dividends has Ukooppilka paid to its farmers in the last ten years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u58	I think that since this is a separate number for each region, it will be necessary to request data from regions. When we consider the bill on second reading, we will certainly need such data to be submitted. That's the first one. Second. With regard to the protection of the interests of the owners of the pies or members of the cooperative, their main interest is, indeed, the profit from the property or from their rations they make. The purpose of the bill is to promote these interests, namely, the profit of dividends, any other accrual or material value.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Javorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich is invited to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! The question that we're looking at is this small, kind of rarities -- Ukooppilka, no one's being prevented from living, and we can blindly vote, clean up a little bit, redevelop the law. What is behind this, from my point of view? We then passed this law in chaos and perhaps in uncertainty. Indeed, there was a single type of trade -- so-called state trade with certain advantages, but also with certain disadvantages -- with these queues, the bases where the authorities went, and so on. All right, we've turned the page. But there was one very interesting postulate in that law: Ukooppilka's property is not privatized, because, he said, it's long ago privatized, it's already mine as a piehole that has this gray book, it's written to me in my village, and, well, it's completely not subject to any winds. What really happened? I studied the subject a little bit, and I even did my radio program, and I gave the numbers. I just have a lot less time right now. What's behind this, my dear? State trade has virtually fallen. It fell at a time when huge price breaks began, and from these bases everything that could be dug up was dug up at very cheap prices. A few days later, it appeared on the market at cosmic prices. Where that money went, none of the spiders can answer. With this money, Ukooppilka’s leadership was, of course, directed. I don't appeal to Babenko. This is happening at all levels, all over this vertical. You know, today it's property that you're going to use for our parents, our grandparents, who then paid these pathetic three or two rubles to bring this pie, almost everything's been stolen. It was really a monster, it was a state in the state. And I'll tell you, after every base last night, and this is a huge facility, behind yesterday's restaurants, behind the factories that produced the food, by each of these objects, believe me, it's more or less the sympathetic peak of some boss who's long since owned it all. [[Someone's been asking about them.]] Now there's only one amendment left in this law to allow them to privatize all of this. In one day, documents will be drawn up, and this property will be gone. When I finish my speech, I would like to say this. Here, in the hall, there was an idea that I really like: maybe you really need to create a commission, or what's left is worth selling today and giving these poor pensioners their pension. That's what people would have told us. And if we don't do that, then neither Babenko nor the heads of the county, or heaven, or even thank you for that. I am convinced that we should not vote in favour of this bill; we should postpone it. I deeply respect Stanislav Gurenko as a wise man. But I don't understand why he's supporting him. I'll try to talk to him. Once again, remember who voted in favour of this bill. Babenko is a very nice man, and don't let him take offense at me. But I'm worth more to the people than Babenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u61	The word is given to Rudekovsky Mikolaiovich. Behind him is Baranowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u62	A socialist party. Dear National Deputies! I've studied the bill carefully, and I want to tell you this. The adoption of this bill will lead to one: we will take away 1 million 200 Ukoopspills of real mechanisms that allow you to get either your dividends or some part of it when you leave Ukooppilka. In principle, the adoption of this law monopolizes the administration of all Ukooppilka and Ukraine’s property in general in Kiev. The basic idea of consumer co-operation, which was built in the creation of consumer cooperation, and the philosophy that exists around the world, is that the basis is the end of the chain -- in place, the people who created the consumer shop, or the circuit link. This bill proposes that all management owns monopolising in Kiev, depriving all regional structures of elemental influence. I am addressing all the deputies, all the factions: we cannot act against the interests of our constituents and only in the interests of the leadership of this company. Why did I ask questions during the presentations on the statute? I got acquainted with this charter. Such an economic structure in Ukraine, where the convention is given authority, is not clear why there is no such thing as the management of local governance by a number of government officials. I need to study the situation in Ukospice, and I will necessarily insist on this, to make a draft decision to create a temporary special commission or a temporary commission of inquiry to study the situation in Ukospice, so that the commission, by studying the matter in its entirety, can either make a bill or make proposals for order in this area. Because dividends don't get in place. We see that there's all kinds of market abuse going on in places and other commercial structures, and processing companies are falling apart, and no one's lifting them up. Finally, we need to put in place clear mechanisms: if it's a corporation, we're going to have the company's shares, so that the mammals have a real mechanism to influence the situation in Ukosci. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u63	Barani's Alexander Petrovich, Socialist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u64	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! To my deep conviction, it is necessary today not to pass a law on consumer cooperation, but to support previous speakers, but to create a temporary commission of inquiry into the activities of consumer cooperation management, and especially in the last five years. All of us are witnessing the gradual, gradual destruction of the entire consumer cooperative system. This uses the experience of industrial and agricultural acceptance when the company was first artificially destroyed and then privatized at no cost. The entire consumer cooperative system has been on its knees for the past five years. The looting of property that was created not one decade later is done with the blood of our parents and grandparents. The main development of consumer co-operation was initiated by peasants. For money, peasants in the cities were built from offices, shops, and resorts. Today, no one knows where the pies have been distributed or what part of the consumer cooperative’s property is owned by those founding it, or their heirs. It's going to be very smooth, and I'm stressing a very smooth reduction in the number of rations. It is to be expected that soon only individual executives of consumer cooperatives will be left with rations. Thus, all the property of the cooperative will fall into the hands of a small group of people. Why does consumer cooperation not work? Perhaps there are no suitable conditions? According to practice, there are conditions. This may be confirmed by the fact that shops or other things that are being bought out by people are usually close to the direction of a community at a certain level. The management of consumer cooperatives is convenient to work at a cost, for it is necessary to sell an object to people who need it at low prices. The higher management of consumer co-operation stimulates its subordinates to the lower chain to do so. An example is the work of the head of the Zitomir district consumer society, Mr. Grigoriev Stepan Maximovich. Under his leadership, in recent years 23 canning factories, which included cooperatives, looted parts of the farms, destroyed the system of horticulture, livestock, farm support, sold out to the right and to the left, shops, tables, cafes, and in the most prestigious places, are sold out, often to themselves. For this activity recently, Mr. Grigoryev, head of the Žitomir Food Company, received from the President the honorary title "Better Service Officer of Ukraine". The bill proposed by Mr. Babenko Stanislaw Grigorovich reinforces these processes. You'll read it. It clearly states that, first of all, it all becomes private, and second of all, there are clearly defined mechanisms to get rid of unnecessary members of the community. Thus, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine suggests that the bill should be rejected, a moratorium should be imposed on the sale of consumer cooperatives, an appropriate commission should be established to deal with the state of the business and to offer the Supreme Council a solution to save the consumer’s assets from stretching in order to make it impossible for individual businesses to accept the entire system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u65	Hellhound Alexander Mikolaiovich, "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u66	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[constituency 84, Zaporezki region]] Dear colleagues! And I'm saying the word "colleagues," not just you people's deputies. Since I was 48 years old, I have given up a better management system - consumer co-operation. In 15 years I have served as President of the Zaporozhye oblivion. I think everything you're talking about is right. But in answer to your question, what happened to consumer cooperation, I want to ask you a question: What happened to the kindergarten in the country, the club, the farm? Because demand is not the fortress of Brest, it cannot stand if everything in the country is destroyed. What's more, I'm sure if it wasn't for patriots in consumer co-operation like my friend, my friend, no sir, there wouldn't be anything left. The question is not about personnel, but about the following. Stanislav Grigoryevich allowed himself two things to speak. First. He said that no comment had been received from any of the actors who had studied the bill. And the second. He thanked for the principled assessment. How can you impose on each other? That must be the problem that we are discussing today. I want to say it again. What the workers of consumer cooperation, especially the rural seller, like the feat, did and did every day, not for fear, but for conscience. I think one day there'll be a man who'll put up a monument to a rural salesman. But that doesn't stop us from talking about the problems of consumer cooperation. I'm her patriot, so it's painful for me to say from this rostrum that since 1917 there has been no and no consumer cooperation in Ukraine, but there is an administrative cooperation. And if we accept these changes, it will never be. Dear Stanislav Grigoryevich! I spoke on your anniversary and now I repeat my words: you're a talented leader, you've done a lot for consumer cooperation, especially for the adoption of the law in 1992. But since 1993, you've been relying not on people who think market-driven, who could give second breath of consumer co-operation, but on those who don't work, but in consumer cooperation, who of you, instead of reformer Stolipin, are making the cemeteries of consumer cooperation. And I can't accept that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u67	Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u68	Thank you. It's a faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! In our Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, it's being considered carefully and interestingly, and I want to emphasize this, by the Cabinet of Ministers, a bill amending the Ukrainian Consumer Cooperation Act. We've studied and studied, analyzed and re-examined information from interested ministries and departments, as well as the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority on this bill. Considering that also the reporter Stanislav Grigorovich Babenko and the co-reporter from the committee have been convincing about the content of the new bill on consumer co-operation, purpose and maturity, I will not stop at this, much more so as the MPs who have spoken have completed their speeches. I'm just going to say that we fully share their concern and we think that the work of adopting this bill should take into account the thoughts and proposals of the deputies. Because in the village of consumer cooperatives there are and work, I support the previous speaker, and so they need a legislative field, even if the property that remains in the demand operation is not to be wasted, which is what we're talking about. So I'd like to propose to you, dear colleagues, a vision of the very order of adoption of this bill. Like all of us who have worked with the bill, we cannot deny that it generally needs certain but separate articles and substantive work. But at the same time, it can be processed in preparation for the second reading. Nor can we deny that the best way to adopt this bill would be the one proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific Research Office, which is to adopt the new Civil Code first, then the Basic Cooperation Act, and then the new version of the Consumer Cooperation Act. Yeah, that's the perfect scheme. But you have to take into account that such a scheme leaves the sector for an indefinite period without proper legal regulation, and I want to emphasize that again. Therefore, in view of the situation that has arisen, we propose to adopt in the first reading both the draft Cooperation Act and the draft Law amending the Law on Consumer Cooperation. And then, in our view, the way should be to first work on and adopt in the second reading, or perhaps to put into effect the Cooperation Act, and then, taking into account its provisions, prepare for the second reading the new edition of the Consumer Cooperation Act. In order to prevent any misunderstandings, this order could be discussed in a decision that we will take on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u69	Thank you. We're done here, let's move on to the next one. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the creation and functioning of special economic zones and the introduction of special investment regimes in priority areas is being considered. The reporter for this question is Economics Minister Šlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. It's been ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council, a bill developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine aims to create a level playing field for all economic operators in importing raw materials and materials into Ukraine. As a tool for resolving this issue, the bill provides for the abolition of import duty benefits on raw materials and materials imported for investment projects in free economic zones and areas of priority development. Why does the Cabinet of Ministers initiate the proposed changes? The main idea behind the creation of special economic zones and areas of priority development was the involvement of investment in priority manufacturing, the introduction of new technologies, the modernization of active production, the promotion of export potential development, the creation of new jobs, the development of areas that are particularly depressing. [[CERTIFICA]] [[TPR]] At the same time, the analysis of these areas shows a trend in the use of purely imported raw materials by operators, especially agricultural products, which does not contribute to the development of domestic production of similar products and in practice leads to the support of importing countries' producers. I want you to look at these figures: if the total imports into CEZ and TPR in 2000 amounted to $146 million, the amount of unpaid payments from import duties was 79 million dollars, the volume of imports of goods increased by only 14 percent in 2001, and the amount of unpaid import duties almost tripled. There is also a significant increase in the share of import duty benefits in the cumulative amount of aid granted to CEZ and TPR entities from 16.8 percent in 1999 to 60 percent in the first half of 2002. [[The rest is the benefits were on the profit, on the value added tax.]] So more than 60 percent of the benefits are car wash benefits. The left-hand portion of the import releases in the CEZ and TPR belong to the products of the group 1-24 UTZED, i.e. the goods of the food group. Let me give you another number. 2000 I've already called this figure 146 million. It's all imports of U.S. dollars. Twenty-five percent of all benefits are premiums for the 1-24, which is 20 million. 2001 - 167. Almost the same number in imports into Ukraine, the premium is 233 million, of which 71 million are premiums for goods in groups 1-24, or 73.3 percent. And finally, the first half of 2002. Nearly 74 million imported, the benefits already amounted to 263 million, of which 236 million are imports of cars imported by group 1-24. And 90 percent of all the benefits are for the 1-24 product. Providing these benefits does not justify expectations of investing in areas that need the most support. At the same time, the amount of tax benefits, especially from the payment of the import duty paid in the framework of the projects in question, is constantly increasing. It should be noted that the provision of tax benefits does not always indicate an improvement in the financial situation of CEZ and TPR entities. In particular, I could give many examples where even the granting of such benefits does not help businesses. In addition, the granting of benefits to enterprise entities from import duties under the laws on SEZ and TPR is contrary to the provisions of the Act on State regulation of imports of agricultural products in part with regard to the non-admission of these exemptions to group 1-24 goods. Taking into account the observed negative trends in imports of food products, the proposed bill provides for the abolition of the benefits, import of imported raw materials and materials for all groups of goods. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for the time being, according to current legislation, these benefits are not extended to such CEZs as Kortortopolis Truskavets, Maples, TPRs in the Zakartatsky region. This creates unequal conditions between the special territories themselves. As to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Scientific Research Administration regarding the selection criteria. We were accused of selectively choosing free economic zones and TPRs that reduce the benefits. It's not like that. The project proposes to amend up to eight laws. Because it is in these areas that there are benefits to pay for the raw materials of businesses. There's no use in free economic zones like Kurortopolis Truscavet, Maple and TPR in Zakartat, so there's no point in making changes to this law. With regard to free economic zones: Porto Franco, Renie, Donetsk, Azov, Carpathian, Interport Coval, Port Crimea, on which is a special customs zone, or so-called barbed wire. The territory is established according to the requirements of the State Customs Service, which excludes the possibility of untaxed imports from the territory into the customs territory of the country of goods without sufficient processing. Therefore, there is no point in making adjustments. The bill also does not provide for the abolition of taxes on imports of raw materials and materials from the Chernigiv region TPR, in the town of Six of Sumsk district, because they were created and are still working in accordance with the President's decrees. The laws on these areas are in the Supreme Council, and once they are finalized on the committee, we will remove these benefits from the law. What will give effect to the adoption of the law? First, it will place all the subjects of the enterprise at the level of conditions — both individual CEZs and TPRs, and generally throughout the country. Secondly, it will make it impossible for the negative trends that have arisen in other areas of production to be imported into the food group. Thirdly, the cancellation of the import aid will not affect the overall economic performance of SEZ and TPR and the investment attractiveness of the territory, with a significant reduction in budget losses. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u71	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u72	The Reform and Order Party, the faction of our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! As to the absolute value of the numbers you have given. You said that the budget lost 70 million dollars as a result of the benefits given to free economic zones. But what about the other wages paid by workers who work in those areas of free economic zones; the pension fund; the State’s denial of the need to pay subsidies if there is unemployment and so on? So if all of this goes to one denominator, don't you think it's going to be something different than the numbers you're given? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear Michael Vasilovich, I'd like to make it clear what benefits he's offering to cancel today's Cabinet of Ministers. We jointly prepared and passed a series of laws on areas of priority for the development of free economic zones. At the same time, we were counting on investment in the country in new technologies, new equipment. But we didn't expect meat from across the border to compete with our agriculture. And so the benefit we're offering to take off is not about equipment, it's only about stopping imported raw materials and materials from abroad. That doesn't mean these projects are going to close. Please buy Ukrainian, reprocessing, and sell in Ukraine. But today we have this situation. I'm saying again, let's say meat or meat production comes to a company where it's properly packaged in cellophane or sorted, and then without tax it comes to sell in territory in Ukraine. So I can ask you what will happen to those who get paid today in domestic meat markets, in enterprises that grow this, because these are enterprises that remain uncompetitive because they are now using imported raw materials. We're not against free economic zones, it's a normal tool especially in our current circumstances, but we're against this tool being used for purposes other than legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, please ask and answer in a more concise manner. Dear Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u75	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! We probably have more than two dozen CEZs and TPRs. Some have been working for many years. Is there a positive experience of such work, and what is it? And would it not be possible to make a generalized material today or at the end of 2002 to analyse the positive and negative effects of these special economic zones? That's the first question. And the second. Do you consider it necessary to take appropriate steps to improve and expand statistical data in these special economic zones? Because you find it difficult to analyze their activities by yourself because there is a lack of reliable statistics. Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u76	Thank you. The Ministry’s office is constantly carrying out an analysis of the effectiveness of special economic zones and areas of priority development. Once a year, the Cabinet of Ministers listens to a very serious analysis of what is being done in each area, in particular, and concludes in general. By the way, about 2001, this analysis has been done recently, and I'm willing to give everyone who wants to provide these materials with figures, conclusions, and a list of measures that we're planning to take as soon as possible. By the way, this bill is provided for in the list of measures that you might be familiar with. Free economic zones in Ukraine today have given a lot of positive results: this is an increase in investment, an increase in wages more than twice as much as in normal businesses, and so forth. All of this and much more is in these analytic materials that I've been talking about. But there are also problems that we need to resolve in order to make it a truly transparent, good tool. I will hand over the analytical materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u77	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u78	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. I'm asking you to pass the word to Clive Andrew Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u79	Please turn on the Kluva microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u80	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[constituency 46, Donetsk Region]] I have two questions. First. How will the adoption of this law affect the investment attractiveness of priority development territories and special economic zones? And second. The list of products introduced in the territory of priority development and in special economic zones is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. What is the point of adopting this law and repealing everything when, in your prerogative as Minister of the Economy and in the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers, you regulate these processes: the import of cucumbers, sugar and all that affects the economy and what have you reflected? You could have done so by simple decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u81	Thank you. As to the first question. What are the consequences? Obviously, the consequences will be dismal for projects that are being implemented in the field of agricultural processing. Frankly, we weren't particularly counting on them, and I don't see any particular problem with us today, as investments, importing raw materials in a group of 1-24 products for further processing. It is a highly efficient activity, and it can take place in Ukraine without paying the benefits that the State is thus providing. That's why it seems to me that we will be able in these free economic zones, including at the expense of local administrations, to focus more on the tasks assigned to these areas. For example, when we were creating one of the last zones in the city of Kharkiv, we were talking about raising engineering potential, huge engineering experience and so on, and when it comes to zones, meatcombinate, breadcombs, coffee processing, and so forth. Let's do what these zones were created for. So I don't think there's going to be any negative consequences to the adoption of this law, which is what I said in the report. As to the second question. Unfortunately, Andrew Petrovich, far from all the laws of the Cabinet of Ministers, is entitled to direct intervention. The laws that we make changes and additions to are those that are approved directly by the administrations of these zones. That's why we think it's necessary to adopt a single standard for everyone, so that it doesn't happen that there's one tax regime in one area, there's another tax regime in another. The adoption of the law will make everyone equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u82	Alexandre Vitaliovich, try to answer with more force. Onichuk Mikolo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u83	Mr. Minister, first of all, we support the position of the government, which is to minimize, I don't want to say delete, because today obviously there is no political will at this level. This is the case with the granting of benefits to business entities, including areas of priority development. You can still understand the government and the Supreme Council when it comes to the social sphere, but when we talk about market conditions and competition, we have to take a clear position here, and we support you. At the same time, such a question. How could this happen? The current law specifically states that taxation benefits are applied to raw materials, materials that are an integral part of an innovative project. It is quite clear that a normal interpretation of the law is primarily about the raw material of the industrial purpose used in the manufacturing process. And you said today that the main part is the raw materials and materials that make up the goods of the group 1-24, which is essentially food goods. Who is responsible for the lack of proper control by the State, what has happened that even the current legislation has not been implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u84	I think the responsibility is with you, because by adopting the law, we were unable to predict what had happened, and the customs service acted clearly in accordance with the law. She was the first to signal that, sadly, the idea that had been laid down in the law had not come into very good shape. So since we are responsible together, let us make changes and complements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u85	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u86	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to ask Alexandra Vitaliyovich this question: Did you compare the concept of creating special economic zones in Ukraine with world experience? If we analyze the world’s experience, in China, for example, the priorities are given to companies investing in high technology. We passed the law and thought it would be a good thing, but we did it this way, so that those district officials, the Ukrainian oligarchs that have an impact on the administrative resource in one economic zone or another, would just bypass our customs. And is it not advisable to go back to looking at the concept of creating special economic zones as part of the priority development of high-tech projects and to cancel the benefits provided to enterprises that do not improve technology but simply avoid taxation?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u87	I think there's a great deal of sense in what you're suggesting, and I want to say again that we're constantly analyzing what's going on in these areas, and we're correcting the situation. Including the bill that we are proposing today comes out of this very logic. I'd like to offer you my cooperation once again. We'll provide the analytical materials we've been offering. Look at them, please. We're going to take any good idea that you're going to suggest in order to improve the work of free economic zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u88	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u89	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The Party of Motherland Defenders. Mr. Secretary, I fully support your suggestions. I just want to understand one thing. When the law was passed to which these changes were proposed, I voted against it because I foresaw these consequences. [[you can raise the vote]] I was speaking on behalf of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and I told you that the mines you just talked about were being laid there. If you remember, you can pick up the transcript. So take a look at how much the state budget has lost, and that's not all you've listed. We've lost a lot more, we've created a huge vacuum cleaner. And there are people in this room who are interested in this vacuum cleaner working from Ukraine. When, then, do we foresee the consequences of the laws we adopt? Understand me correctly: I'm behind your suggestions, just me, so that we don't let that happen again, and we don't lose those billions that we've already lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u90	So am I, Yuri Anatolyovich. So thank you for your support. The only thing I promise you is to listen much more carefully to your grades and recommendations. You were right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u91	Mishur Valery Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u92	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear reporter, voters simply say that free economic zones have been created under certain structures, under certain individuals, to wash away dirty money. I have such a radical offer. Do you not think that these free economic zones need to be eliminated at all because they are only damaging to the state budget, both to the state and to the population? That's the first question. And the second. Tell me, from whose initiative did this political challenge arise to the name of your Ministry of Economics and the political challenge of European integration? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u93	Thank you. As for the second question. Since it does not apply directly, I will be happy to talk to you after this has been discussed. As for the first question. I would like to remind you of the Chinese's good wise saying: everything is poison and everything is medicine. Any good tool can certainly be turned into unnecessary. And just to fight the lame way of cutting off heads today is wrong, because there are many examples of free economic zones creating new jobs in Chernobyl areas where no other capital has come. [[Again, I invite you to the analytics I was talking about.]] Cut them off in this way, cutting them off immediately, you don't have to. Only those negative phenomena that we now understand and for which to make such a decision should be cut off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u94	Peter Mikhailovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u95	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[electoral district 125, Lviv region]] The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich is certainly the logic of much of what you have said, and we understand that the Free Economic Zones Act and the special investment regime should be polished. But I have another concern: which today can be proposed mechanisms for creating new jobs in depressed areas, in mining areas where mines are closed? If you take the city of Chernobyl, which you know very well, where the two mines of the twelve have closed, two more mines will be closed for two years, and 50 percent of the coal mine will be in operation for 2006. There are thousands of people here. There is no new money mine because it costs 1.4 billion dollars. Of course, the investor won't come into this area, because even the ground is falling down there, let alone communication, even though we've done a lot in this direction. Tell me, do you not think it's possible to monitor today, that it doesn't depend on the breakthrough or the MPs or government officials, and where more than 20-30 percent of the mines that are closing up, the coal sector in the region's economy is more than 50 percent, to include them in the special regime of investment with that, of course, is a serious condition that it's not money laundering, but it's creating new jobs and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u96	Thank you, Peter Mikhailovich. Your question goes beyond what I'm reporting from this rostrum, but once again, I'm stressing that creating free economic zones is a matter of law. And so the adoption of similar laws is a matter of the hall and the government. I invite you to cooperate on each of the areas in which we analyze the situation, and to consider whether and whether it is appropriate today to use a mechanism such as a free economic zone or a priority development area to improve the situation where large enterprises and huge unemployment are first closed. At the same time, I'm drawing your attention to this bill again. It doesn't refer to the problem we're talking about, it just removes a lot of people's doubts that this mechanism can be used effectively. Let's make it a model investment mechanism so that it can be applied in red town, in other depressing territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u97	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Have a seat, please. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economics, Property, and Investments of MacKeenko Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u98	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! Members of the government! The purpose of the bill proposed is to abolish the import duty premiums for raw materials and materials imported for investment projects in priority development areas and special economic zones. This bill proposes to amend Ukraine's relevant legislation on the creation and functioning of special areas and priority development areas in part of the cancellation of import duty benefits on raw materials and materials. The need to resolve the issue of the cancellation of the raw materials and imported materials is due to the trends that have arisen as a result of the business activity under a special investment regime, such as external economic activity. As evidenced by the Ministry of Economy's analysis of import operations, some investment projects have shown a trend in the use of exclusively imported raw materials, especially agricultural products, which do not contribute to the development of domestic production of similar products and in practice leads to the support of importing countries' producers. Yes, if the total imports in the special economic zone and the priority development area in 2000 amounted to $146 million, the amounts outstanding from import duties and VAT amounted to $208 million from the United States. In 2001, the volume of imports of goods increased to $160 million, and the amount of unpaid taxes amounted to $360 million in the United States. The proportion of imports of goods in the special economic zone and the priority development area is 1.1 percent of the total imports of Ukraine. However, the proportion of imports of individual groups of goods in total imports is significant, and in some places, too significant is 96 percent after imports of meat and food sub-products, 56 percent fresh pigs, and 17 percent of sub-products and birds. As a result of the increase in the volume of imports of agricultural products, the structure of the premiums from taxation to increases in the amount of import aid from the import point of view. Thus, the continuation of the existing legislation on imports of raw materials and materials, especially agricultural and food products, leads to the elimination of taxes on high-equity products, the destruction of the system of tariff regulation for agricultural imports established by the Ukrainian Law on State regulations for imports of agricultural products, the possibility for end-product operators to have a higher level of competitiveness in the internal market compared to the analogue products produced from domestic raw materials. Therefore, the proposed changes to non-indulgence in goods to implement investment projects identified in priority economic activities will protect the interests of domestic producers and prevent the negative effects noted. It should be noted that the provisions of this bill will not be extended to investment projects that are already being implemented under contract agreements, as they are being applied by law to guarantee standards. The adoption of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the creation and functioning of special economic zones and the introduction of special investment regimes in priority development areas will help prevent budget losses and create unequal conditions for domestic producers, facilitate the re-orientation of investors to the production organisation of the Ukrainian raw material base, which can largely meet the needs of business operators implementing investment projects in priority development areas. [[Free]] The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment at its meeting on 3 July this year considered a draft law submitted by the President of Ukraine and decided by a majority of votes to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, in making the final decision, we must consider, apart from the economic indicators, the socio-political consequences of our decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, will there be any questions? Please sign up. Light up, please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u100	"Our Ukraine," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, I support this bill on the grounds that I have already mentioned, believing that what is happening is genocide against my own economy and the destruction of my own economy. So I would ask you, in preparing this bill, to work with factions, to send them documents and to prepare to accept it immediately in the first, second readings, and as a law not to be delayed, because every second, every minute that we're even considering right now, will be analyzed and used for a sauce from the state of capital and for our agrarians to stop completely and the aliens to work. It's not just agrarians, it's a lot of imported shit that goes through these so-called zones now, and many have taken advantage of rents, especially in many areas. So I'd like to ask you to do that. Is it possible, as you think, that it is Vladimir Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u101	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you for asking. I think it's not a question, it's an offer. We'll count it and try to work right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u102	Please sit down, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Two deputies were enrolled on the platform. Yukhnowsky Igor, faction of our Ukraine. Please, Igor Raphaelovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u103	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Chairman! Deputies! I believe that this law should be adopted, but if you carefully examine the law and the bill that is proposed, they are both indisposed. They're very common. In the current law, special economic zones of Volinska, Mikolayivski, Kharkiv, Žitomirski, Lugansk, and Donetski were allowed to import raw materials, equipment, and machinery, and they were freed from paying for the corresponding congregations. Now materials and raw materials are being released from the payment of suitable congregations. What do you mean by materials and raw materials? If you understand the products of the 1-24 group, say chicken meat and so on, it is understandable, but there may be a variety of other materials and raw materials that are essential for the production of certain products. And I want to give you an example of the Santa Claus. It is known that foreigners who order our ships require that their vessel be only imported equipment when it is known that there is such a rule in the world, if certain equipment is produced in that country, that one who builds that ship is obliged to put his, the native, on that ship, and that is the condition under which the order is accepted from the outside customer. So I think that both the valid law and this bill are very general, they're inconclusive, and they create a variety of laziness. If you think a chicken stegan needs to be banned from importing, let's bring it in under this number UTZED, let's introduce specific groups of classifications of goods that are prohibited from spreading the benefits when imported. And so, in general, to ban the benefits of importing all the raw materials and all the materials, there God knows what might be needed, this bill is imperfect. So I think the Ministry of Economics needs to work more closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u104	Peter Alexiovich powder, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u105	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[Election District 12, Viennese Region]] Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! My speech will be very brief. I would like to draw your attention to the possible budgetary implications of the existence of free economic zones and areas of priority that are being imported today without payment of the corresponding duty, value added taxes, raw materials and materials for production. Of course, these free economic zones for the creation of new jobs have already played their part in some way. But in the business plans of these enterprises, it was originally a misrepresentation of the domestic producer that allowed them to prefer the amount of tax added to the import price. All of you remember how difficult it was for us to fight against so - called joint ventures, which, using the benefits provided by law, with judicial decisions, actually destroyed entire sectors of the Ukrainian industry. [[those who have been called in the past]] The same is true today. We have, of course, a sugar industry, which is a basic, urban industry for a number of areas, including the Winnitz region, where I am elected as a national deputy. The issue of jobs is also very painful. Today, given that we have areas of priority development and free economic zones where operators have the opportunity not to buy domestic sugar, but to import it from abroad without payment of customs and VAT, tens of thousands of people in rural areas are left with their own sugar or forced to sell it at a price below their cost. I'll try to give you only one number: next year, the budget will lose about one and a half billion dollars just because of the unwarranted benefits. I have great respect for Igor Rafailovich, but we can argue about this. There is a widespread practice in the world where aids are granted to imports of equipment or other contingent expenses. However, there is no understanding of the position when we destroy a domestic producer by giving aid to imports of raw materials and materials that are then being implemented in Ukraine. This concept of free economic zones, unfortunately, is still unknown to the world. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I want to say this. Indeed, there are problems of mining and mining, and they need to be solved. However, I think it's better to have in the income part of the budget, let's say, one and a half billion dollars, channel them into the coal sector and by restructuring create new jobs. Today, unfortunately, we have a very different picture when even the funds already approved for the restructuring of the coal sector are trying to eat, pay their wages. Of course, this is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u106	Thank you. Andre Petrovich was the cuddler. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u107	Dear Gennady Andreevich! Dear colleagues! We have had special economic zones and priority development in Ukraine for more than three years. However, as soon as one of the first laws appeared, they immediately began to say that their existence was not appropriate. Periodically, there has been an increase in the reduction of some tax preferences, and the desirability of priority development territories and special economic zones has been constantly questioned. [[approximately every six months]] There is a law adopted by the Supreme Council of the previous assembly, and there are investors who invest money in Ukraine's economy, create enterprises, new jobs. However, they are constantly hesitant to invest further or not to invest, will these territories exist as a matter of priority or will they not? Who will believe us if we constantly change our decisions? We must be consistent in all our actions. I don't think it was appropriate to bring this bill into this room at all. The decision on whether or not to import the goods of Group 1-24 is the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is stated in all laws that the list of raw materials and materials to be imported into Ukraine is approved by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. All that is being done in Ukraine is not appropriate to import and, of course, these items are excluded from the list. What is not done in Ukrainian businesses, please have the law, and act by law. So let me put it this way: new jobs are being created, people are working, money is being invested, and we have to protect our investors, all those firms and companies that invest money because they believe in Ukraine, they work in Ukraine, they create new jobs. I therefore find it inappropriate to adopt the bill in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u108	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u109	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! I would like to support both Peter Alexeiovich Dustyenko and my colleague Clovis, although these performances are somewhat the opposite. [[His speech on the food group 1-24]] Of course, Ukraine also feels that 55 percent of the defence industry of the former Soviet Union has been located in its territory and coal regions suffer from depletion. But I want to say about agricultural products. In the country, the production of sugar, flour, animal products, especially poultry, and in the free economic zones, these products come from abroad. Peter Alexiyovich is right, in the budget that he has not received, the lion’s share belongs to agricultural production. [[And that's 1 billion 400,000 dollars.]] I would like to deny to my colleague Clovis that, unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers does not determine these issues. There was a proposal to remove the goods of group 1-24, but the government's decision is not taken because there are other laws that prohibit the government from doing so. Nevertheless, I insist that this bill should be considered and the goods of groups 1-24 removed. I understand that raw materials, materials, equipment -- all of this is necessary, and the zones should be, because these are jobs for people who are suffering today. However, there is a self - sufficient agrarian Ukraine, a reproducing of agricultural produce, an appropriate price policy. So, the goods of groups 1-24 need to be removed, in Ukraine it's enough for today. And the budget can really be oriented, as Peter Alexiyovich says, to support coal regions, because that's what they're talking about, the left-hand side of free economic zones is right there. Thank you for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u110	Thank you. Sergey Ivanovich Slabenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u111	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[electoral district 19, Volinsk region]] The faction of our Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention, honourable national deputies, to the fact that we already had an example of dealing with enterprises with foreign investments, it was quite complicated. We may be in danger that, once changes have been made to the order of duty, some enterprises that feel that their rights have been violated will likewise address the judicial authorities. So when changes are made, it would have to be taken into account that this rule will extend to new enterprises that will be registered in the future, and at least not to touch those that already exist. It's about your own production. I would like to support the people’s deputies who expressed themselves for not cancelling the benefits on groups of goods, but for carefully approaching the list of goods imported into customs territory. There is such a raw material that is not produced in sufficient quantity in Ukraine today, and there are minimum rates of import duties on it. Does it make sense today not to make an audit of what is sufficiently produced in Ukraine and what is not enough to adopt the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u112	Thank you. The closing statement is by Schlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich, Minister of Economics. Please, it's very tight.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to just one point that many speakers have been talking about, namely, that instead of the total cancellation of the benefits, from the payment of import duties on raw materials and materials, they should be listed. I want to remind you that the rates of import duty are approved by the Customs Code, which is adopted by the Supreme Council. And it's when we approve the rates of import duty that we decide whether this product is produced in Ukraine or not. That's why we put high rates of duty on groups 1-24, and for certain goods that are not produced in Ukraine, they're very low. This bill does not regulate this issue. If there is a need to change the rate of import duty, we will make changes to the Customs Code. Examples such as Igor Rafailovich, who had imported raw materials to the Kharkiv coffee factory without import duty, and to Lvivsk, with payment of import duties, could not be allowed. It's wrong, but it's not the law that regulates these things. So I would suggest that we adopt the bill in the first reading as proposed. Then we'll have an additional discussion with both Ivan Grigorovich and other national MPs about whether to accept such structures properly or maybe change them a little bit, but this will be a signal to the investor that the Supreme Council will no longer support such investment schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in time to consider the issue of the agenda, so we will continue our meeting for 15 minutes. The word is given to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, Zajczuk Boris Alexandrovich. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Congregations for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. [[concerning aircrew personnel]] Please. These are budgetary issues, and we need to look at them quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u115	Head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. The proposed changes provide for changes in the procedure for reimbursement of the pension fund’s payment and delivery of pensions to civil aviation aircraft personnel. I recall that on December 7, 1999, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Laws, which provided for a new calculation of pensions in service of years for flight crews of civil aviation aircraft. Since December 1999, the Pension Fund has been paying higher pensions to these citizens. The current law also provides for compensation for the airline’s flight costs, but with reference to a difficult economic situation, only 4 - 5 percent of the funds are reimbursed to the company. In total, more than 33 million dollars have been compensated, and only 300,000 dollars have been compensated in the first half of the year. In order to address this problem, it is proposed to change the current rate of compensation and increase by 10 percent the rate of deduction to the Pension Fund for enterprises that use the work of civil aviation flight personnel. [[By the way, this proposal was made by the airlines themselves.]] The increased billing rate is defined as the ratio of the amount of the Pension Fund's expenditure to the higher pension rate to the employees' fund, which consists of flight crews. In Russia, by the way, this tariff has been raised by 14 percent. So if the proposed bill is adopted, there will be a reduction in the burden on businesses, from which a significant number of flight crews have retired, as these costs will be distributed proportionally between all airlines. Dear National Deputies! Please support the bill, which was considered by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on pensioners, veterans and disabled persons and on construction, transportation, and communications issues, as one way of resolving the problem of pension financing for civil aviation aircraft personnel and was recommended for adoption in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u116	Thank you. Is there a question for Boris Alexandrovich? Please sign up. Polish Kirile Ananiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u117	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[electoral district 98, Kyiv region]] Boris Alexandrovich, I have a question like this. Why should an air traffic controller make a deduction from his salary for an additional pension insurance for a flight warehouse, since this does not apply? The same is true of engineers, technicians, and others. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u118	The point is that today we have a solid system where all the pension funds, regardless of where a person works, go to pension payments, including from these airlines. The pension benefits, which I have made in accordance with the changes that I have mentioned, are unfortunately not being compensated for. Today, we have 8,000 273 specialists receiving a higher pension, and there is virtually no compensation. You're right when you ask why an air traffic controller or a lighter should do a countdown. That is why we have proposed to adopt the bill in the first reading, and for the second reading, let us clarify the actual cost of flying.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u119	Topolo's Victor Semenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u120	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[electoral district 115, Lugansk Region]] Dear Boris Alexandrovich, please tell us how many pensioners we have and what are their average pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u121	Today, we have 8,000,273 retirees who have been in flight. [[I've just called this number.]] It's not just the pilots, it's the botts, the bott mechanics, the bottradists, the onboard operators -- everyone who flew. The average pension is about 430 - 450.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u122	Dear Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u123	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. [[electoral district 104, Lugansk Region]] Dear Boris Alexandrovich, colleagues! I think that today we are discussing not as much an economic problem as a social one. The problem is as follows. As a person, at the same time, because of his duties relating to the repayment of pension arrears, I can say that it was at that time that the subject of the increase in the pension to the summer staff was raised. I can say with certainty that, unfortunately, when it came to increasing the many-wanted pensions, they went to pickets and so on, and when it was necessary to pay, they began to say that it was not the problems of summer enterprises. Therefore, today, when discussing this subject at a meeting of our committee, we said that it would be socially fair for airlines to pay a little more to give their employees higher pensions. However, I would like to emphasize once again that this is not some tens of millions; it is more of a question of social justice. Based on that, two questions to you, Boris Alexandrovich. How many airlines do we have to pay today? That's the first question. And the second question. How many enterprises do we have to reimburse the Pension Fund for increased pensions?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u124	Today, we are registered as employees of the 82 - airline insurance congregations, of which 46 are credited to the Pension Fund. What was the situation? In connection with the creation of new airlines, a large part of the elderly either went bankrupt or changed their form of property without the right to succeed. And it was from these airlines that a lot of people retired. [[You remember, there was Ukrainian Air Force, airport services, etc.]] Today, these businesses are in a rather difficult economic situation and are essentially not engaged in any economic activity. At the same time, a number of new airlines have emerged, and no one has retired from them yet. [[For example, the new airlines "Aeroworld" and "Ukraine Airlines"]] So at the suggestion of this bill, I would stress that the airlines themselves, as well as the Department of Aviation of the Ministry of Transport and Trade, are expected to participate in the payment of insurance contributions not only by the old airlines but also by the new ones. That is why such a bill has been prepared. I repeat: 46 airlines out of 82 are in debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u125	Vasjunik Ivane Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u126	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine." Dear Boris Alexanderovich! Do you not feel that the adoption of this bill creates a precedent for discrimination against Ukrainian airlines when such practices extend to other companies whose employees are entitled to early retirement?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u127	No one is trying to discredit our Ukrainian airlines. The fact is that the authors of the current law were supposed to provide for compensation for the pension fund's payment of pension benefits. [[this is provided by valid legislation]] Thus, the issue of pension increases was extended, and the issue of compensation was not specifically asked. In fact, using a valid law, they showed us that employers would be compensated, the businesses from which people retired, but I was just giving an example that practically none of the brothers were. Thus, in line with the principle of solidarity, the airlines made such an offer. This experience is not limited to us, the same problem in all countries of the SND. I gave an example, in Russia, additional credits were introduced to the Pension Fund of 14 percent of the payroll fund to pay pensions to airlines, or flight depots.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u128	Thank you, Boris Alexanderovich. For the co - report, the word is given to the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Stépanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u129	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons reviewed the draft law submitted by the President of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on Congregationing for Compulsory State Pension Insurance, 1194, and suggests that it be accepted as a basis. The committee members made some warnings, but during the drafting and preparation of the draft for second reading bill, we will try to find a golden middle that will accommodate all the subjects concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u130	Thank you very much, Peter Stepanovich. Any questions? Sergey Anatolyovich Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u131	Mariupol. Dear Peter Stepanovich! With regard to this bill, everything is very clear and understandable. I would like to hear your position as Chairman of the Committee dealing with the pension system. To date, we have a very large number of people who retire on concessional lists between 40 and 45 years of age, receive both a pension and a salary. [[workers in the metal industry, the mining and metallurgical complex and so on]] At times, the amount of the pension is not commensurate with the amount of wages they receive to date. You know, in the good old days, we had a system when the upper limit was 300 roubles. I'm not saying everyone needs to be taken, but there's got to be a reallocation mechanism. What do you think? In your opinion, can these means, which are not today, say, vitally necessary for this category of population, be used for the poor who have a poor pension to a lower limit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u132	Thank you for asking. You know, unfortunately, you're right. I stress these words in particular, unfortunately, because there is a problem of the discrepancy between the amount from which a person pays contributions to the Pension Fund and the salary from which his pension is calculated. Indeed, this problem exists. Regrettably, a ceiling had been established first by decree of the President, then by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, it was indeed necessary to eliminate that practice. With regard to the problem of concessional categories. I think that a participatory mechanism, including industries, should be sought, at least in part, to compensate for the benefits of concessional pensions. You see, there's been a paradox. By the way, today was the question of Boris Alexandrovich from one of our colleagues: why should the air traffic controller pay contributions for a concessional pension, let's say, flyer? I understand there's a problem, but let's ask a question on another level: Excuse me, why is a flyer today receiving a pension from a janitor, a teacher, a doctor and others? That's unacceptable, too. Therefore, I think we need to look for a golden middle to properly participate in both the industry and those who will later have the right to a concessional pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u133	Thank you very much. Polishchuk Kirilo Ananiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u134	Dear Chairman! Dear national deputies, present! The proposed bill contains unreasonable standards. I am surprised that both the committee and the distinguished Boris Alexanderovich refer to the airmen as such. I'll say specifically, this morning I had a conversation with the deputy director of the Department of Aviation, and they don't support the words that Boris Alexanderovich said, and, I'm surprised, my fellow MP. The proposed standard is unfair with regard to civil aviation companies. In particular, engineers, technicians, economists, drivers, and others work in companies other than flight crews. It is socially unfair to collect additional contributions and to fund their wages because they will not receive higher pensions in the future. In addition, the proposed changes are unfair for large industrial enterprises, for which aviation is not the main activity, such as the South Bank, the collection of additional contributions to the entire wage fund of these companies will infuriate thousands of labour groups. According to the Ministry of Transport, it is quite enough to make a contribution only to the employee’s salary fund, regardless of the form of ownership or subordination of the enterprise. In this case, there is sufficient funding for additional expenses for pensioners who have retired after the changes have been made to the legislation. On the basis of the foregoing, I propose in article 4, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance that 42 percent of the additional payments are made to the payroll fund of flight crew members rather than to the entire payroll fund of airlines. You can do that. So let's start with target listings for other categories, but let's say that's ridiculous. In addition, I believe that the funding for higher pension payments to pensioners who have retired before making any previous changes should be borne by the Pension Fund, not by the enterprises where they used to work. There is now a paradoxical situation where former state-owned enterprises have to account for all pensioners, with the size of the deductions in many cases exceeding the size of the entire enterprise's pay fund, thereby deliberately destroying these enterprises. [[This is the data from the Ministry of Transport.]] In Ukraine, the total counting rate will be 15 percent, including 5 percent, on the basis of flight crew personnel. I believe that this bill cannot be adopted without accounting given not by any airliners, but specifically by the Department of Transport and the Department of Aviation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u135	Boris Alexanderovich, are you insisting on the closing word?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u136	With your permission, a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u137	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u138	The flight fee fund for six months amounts to 11.4 million dollars, 5 percent of the total wage fund for the industry. Thus, counting from the payroll fund alone does not practically cover these expenses, 909 persons are assigned a pension after the introduction of this law. Today, questions will arise as to why no payment is made to seamen, transporters, motorists, metallurgists, and others. [[Mathienne Speaks]] Let's face it: there is no spending on pension payments to the agrarian sector today. There is a reform of the pension system, and eventually it will be: who has paid as much as they will get. You want to pay off your pension benefits, you pay them back.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-10-m1.u139	Thank you. The discussion is over, the decision will take place on Thursday. The evening session of the Supreme Council is closed. Tomorrow we start our work at 10 o'clock. Good-bye.
