ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies are requested to take their seats and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Dear colleagues! Please register. 361 national deputies registered. Dear colleagues! Today, members of the government, headed by Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, Head of the Supreme, Constitutional and High Economic Courts of Ukraine, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Human Rights Commissioner, Head of the Court of Auditors, Regional, Kyiv and Sevastopol City Councils and District Administrations, representatives of religious denominations, members of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organizations, representatives of the diplomatic corps, the public, the media. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is declared open. The National Hymn of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! As you know, there have been elections of Ukrainian national deputies in three constituencies. On July 25 and 26, 2002, the Central Election Commission declared elected and registered Drachevsky Viktor Vasilovich as Ukrainian national deputy in a one-man election district of 35; Mikolaiovich as Ukrainian national deputy in a one-man election district of 18; Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich as Ukrainian national deputy in a one-man election district of 201. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Drachewski Viktor Vasilovich, is invited to take an oath to the rostrum. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u2	I ask you to calm down, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u3	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 35, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] "I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all compatriots." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u4	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Odynik Mikolayovich, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u5	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 18, Viennese Region]] "I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all compatriots." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u6	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u7	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 201, Cherkas region]] "I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all compatriots."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let us welcome our colleagues to the positions of Ukrainian national deputies and wish them, together with us, a fruitful legislative work in the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! As you know, during the inter-sessional period during the fortieth year, the life of our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Oleg Ivanovich Alexenka was destroyed. On July 27 and 31st, there were tragedies at the Skanylov military airport and the Snail Mine, which led to numerous human casualties. Please honor the memory of our fellow countrymen and of our fellow man. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! The All - Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organizations made a statement to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For good reason, the leaders of the sects asked the Chief of the Supreme Council to give this address at the meeting. The first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Hennady Andriyovich Vasiliev, is given the word to announce the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u9	First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[constituency 61, Donetsk Region]] "Dear People's Deputies! We, members of the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches and religious organizations, who represent all the wealth and diversity of the spiritual traditions of our Fatherland, call upon you with a joint call based on the great commandments of our faith. It calls for love and peace, for transforming work, for accountability to God, who is raised up to the constitutional principle of the Ukrainian State, and to the people of Ukraine, who are the only source of authority. Today, on the opening day of the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the expectations of our people are directed at you, its defenders. People look forward to the realization of their expectations, to righteous laws, to a better future. We, the hierarchy and religious leaders, who have always been and will remain faithful to their faithful ones in joy and suffering, well know how our fellow countrymen need this, how deeply they have suffered the right to a worthy, spiritually full and prosperous life. We want to believe that knowing the full depth of responsibility and the magnitude of urgent work will be the cornerstone of this session of the Supreme Council. We are not naive enough to fail to understand how much harsh forms the political process takes in time and how acute legislation can be. So we urge you not to lose a man in this process -- the Lord's creation, beyond the interests and aspirations of which politics loses meaning and justification, turning into a game of petty passions. Remember how difficult it is to gain national trust and how easy it is to lose it because of reckless actions, because of an unwary word. Let wisdom and power do the things that are expected of you in all your good works, and may the Lord bless you in the light of perfection."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! In view of the impossibility of personally taking part in the opening of the session, President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma of Ukraine sent an address to the Supreme Council, which was tasked with announcing the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. The word is given to roadside Alexander Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u11	Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[electoral district 213, Kiev]] Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. "To the national deputies of Ukraine on the occasion of the opening of the second session of the fourth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Distinguished People's Deputies! Welcome to the opening day of the autumn session. At the Johannesburg World Summit of Permanent Development, where I have the privilege of representing our nation, it inspires a slightly different form of thinking about Ukrainian politics than the one we are now accustomed to. With these thoughts, I would like to share with you today. It is known that the concept of continuous development provides for a review of the relationship between the three whales — economics, social and environmental kingdoms, the transition to a new development paradigm that will be centered on man’s quality of life, and the safety of his life. Note: Not technological progress, not economic efficiency, but a person who has the right to a decent and safe life, as well as the lives of his children and future generations. Under these conditions, the principles of social justice and environmental security should become the cornerstone of responsible government policies. I ask the leaders of the Communist Party and the Green Party not to worry -- I'm not going to apply to join the ranks of these important parties. But ignoring these principles would be extremely irresponsible not only for our contemporaries but also for our offspring. The facts show that the recovery from the economic crisis has become a reality today. But of course, there's still a lot more we need to do with you to ensure that the economy develops. I have no doubt that the MP Corps is aware of its own responsibilities and is able to determine for itself the priorities of its policy in this area. I would just like to emphasize that in addressing the issue of economic growth in legislation, it is not possible to put into a long drawer a solution to social problems and environmental problems. The Supreme Council began its work on the reform of the health system. However, I am troubled by her slow pace. The situation of pension reform is similar. I said again: by adopting the laws of pension reform, we have no right to forget about those who are no longer working today, so they can't fund their individual accounts. In my address on Independence Day, I set myself a priority for the next two years -- to do everything I can to move from the dead point of solving social problems. I hope you'll support me in this. I cannot help but mention my proposals for political reform. To be honest, my reaction to them surprised me somewhat. Because over a long period of time, the representatives of various political forces, from left to right, convinced me that this is exactly what I needed. When he was made, it turned out that most politicians were not prepared for him. Either way, it's the role of the President to push those who don't even believe in themselves. Once again, my proposals for a transition to the parliamentary presidential system are not a joke or a test of loyalty. It's my deliberate choice. I hope that, after the first shock, the leaders of the political forces will understand the President's intentions and start work on making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Constitution. I want to reassure those who are intimidated by the transfer of certain powers from the President - Parliament. Speaking, not in time, lacks a political culture, an unformed civil society, and so forth. First of all, if you think about it, time will never come. Second, reform is not a single act of bridging the ambitions of factions in the distribution of ministerial portfolios. This is a rather complex and progressive process that aims to create an effective and accountable society. Thirdly, the authors of the relevant changes to the Constitution take into account all necessary restraints and contradictions, including the President's right to dissolve the Supreme Council. After all, making changes to the Constitution is Parliament's exclusive right, and I believe in your high professionalism and responsibility to the electorate, the honourable national MPs. So create a parliamentary majority, propose a coalition government. I am now ready to make a proposal to the majority for approval by the Supreme Council. Finally, let me get back to the routine. In a few days, the government promised to submit to the Supreme Council a draft budget for the following year. I hope that you, as a member of the new Parliament, will be able not only to consider it at the right time, but also to approve a responsible and real budget, a budget for our nation's continued economic progress, a budget for social upheavals for our fellow citizens. [[Not for the first time in recent history of Ukraine]] I sincerely wish you a successful job for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine. September 2, 2002. " [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u12	The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, is invited to attend. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u13	Prime Minister of Ukraine. The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear national MPs, colleagues, representatives of the media! Thank you very much for the opportunity on behalf of the government to welcome you from the beginning of the second session of the Supreme Council on the fourth call. The second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine begins at a time when a new stage of the social political development of the state is launched, which envisions the transition to another model of the state system, the parliamentary-popular republic. At the same time, I'm sure we're aware that changes in the system of power require substantial changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. It's not chaotic, it's systemic, it's profoundly thought out and conceptually strengthened. The Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council are confident that they will unite their efforts in the process of constitutional reform. In this regard, I want to assure you that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is ready to engage in all its potential and, together with the President, the Parliament, to engage in this process. The main goal is not to divide positions and powers once again, but to firstly work together to create the most effective model of government, to combine a strategy to shape a competitive modern economy with the consolidation of democratic principles, the development of civil society. Because the basic criteria under which people assess efficiency, the social benefits of power, are the high standard of living of every citizen that includes a decent salary, pension insurance, affordable quality medicine, adequate education. In the seven months of the current year, real earnings in Ukraine increased by 18.8 percent, and retail sales increased by 16.5 percent. These are serious positive trends that enable us to address strategic challenges: the development of the internal market, the improvement of citizens’ capacity to pay, including, as a basic one, the reduction of Ukraine’s dependence on external economic and political conditions. At the same time, however, deep structural, systemic problems remain. This is certainly a need to take into account the severe change in the world's situation, the globalization of the world economy, the exacerbation of the struggle of nations in their place under the sun. So we need to step up this direction, primarily on the basis of structural reforms that match the enormous potential of Ukrainian society and state, to create reliable conditions for the protection of investor rights, the development of small and medium-sized businesses, the modern state social protection system. The solution to these problems is possible if an effective system of government is to be established, which should be based on constructive cooperation between the legislative and executive branches of government. The expansion of the government and parliament's cooperation base for today is one of the main priorities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We see the creation of an effective mechanism of interaction as a prerequisite for ensuring political stability, the continuous socio-economic development of the state, and raising the level of public confidence in power. The government supports the need to create a parliamentary majority capable of ensuring effective legislative activity in interaction with the government, and is ready to bear with you a solid political responsibility for the effective implementation of Ukraine's economic and social development strategy. At the same time, I'm sure that true patriotism is not another attempt at revolution on the ground. This is primarily a professional, copy of the development work, the creation of conditions for a decent place in Ukraine in the world’s fellow worker. With a view to resolving urgent socio-economic issues and increasing government revenues, the government is proposing a list of projects approved by the relevant decisions for the first time at the second session of the Supreme Council. This is certainly the adoption of the Tax Code, the need to reduce the burden on citizens’ income, improve income tax, and add value. There is a need to strengthen the joint work on pension reform. At the same time, the government believes that a further increase in pensions in Ukraine is due only to an increase in the pressure on the payroll fund. A very important trend is the fight against money laundering, which is certainly to be accompanied by work on creating conditions for legalization of capital, equal market competition. The government proposes that for the first time, it be considered as an integral part of constitutional reform to be an immediate draft of the Cabinet of Ministers Act of Ukraine. We hope that, given the importance of the problems that will contribute to the adoption of these bills, this list will also be included in the agenda of the High Council’s second session of the day. It should be noted that the government is gradually deepening its efforts to improve the mechanism of its interaction with parliament. The issue was also at the centre of the last meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which took place with the participation of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, the heads of the parliamentary committees and the authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups and factions. The constructive conversation that took place during the Cabinet of Ministers meeting has more clearly identified existing problems and shortcomings and has enabled us to improve the existing mechanism of interaction. In particular, the government envisages a more active participation of national deputies in the preparation and decision-making of the Cabinet of Ministers. Participation in meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, government committees, colleges and ministries, other central executive bodies is regulated. Yes, the last of the advisory votes to date include 32 Ukrainian national deputies on the proposals of factions and committees, and five deputies have joined the government committees. We are confident that such a step will contribute to improving the climate of mutual trust, and this work will continue to deepen. The Cabinet of Ministers has also made a decision and hopes for your support for restoring the work of the Advisory Council on the issues of cooperation between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers and increasing its status. We hope that the Supreme Council will support the need for this important advisory body and will also make the appropriate decision. An important factor for the national economy, the effective protection of national economic interests in external and internal economic space is the creation of a joint working group to further Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization and the implementation of Ukraine's legislation to WTO requirements. I pay particular attention to that, because every mistake on this road is the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs and of economic external and internal space. National MPs are also part of the Customs Tariff Council for more rapid work and a clear professional response to changing economic conditions and more reliable protection of national producers, certainly transparent market methods. We believe that this will allow us in general to respond professionally to all the situations that are taking place in the world's economic, political space, and this has special significance for the state in terms of increasing competition. Dear National Deputies! How much more effective the interaction of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Parliament, as we will be together clearly, transparently, is why it is argued that the logic of power works towards society, largely depends on the effectiveness of solving national problems, the pace of economic growth, which has the sole purpose of improving people's lives. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues, my friends! To conclude, welcome to the beginning of the second session. I wish us fruitful work in the name of achieving a decent standard of living, increasing the well - being of the Ukrainian people, respect and authority of our nation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u14	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. The word is given to the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Viktor Yegorovich. Please, Victor Yegorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u15	Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the judges, to express my appreciation for the invitation to open the session and to extend a warm welcome to all of you at the beginning of the next stage of the sessional work, to wish you success in the exercise of the powers of the Supreme Council, its officials and committees. The main objective of the establishment of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and its task is to guarantee the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, as the Basic Law of the State, throughout Ukraine, the protection of the constitutional system, constitutional rights and freedoms of human beings and citizens. In order to carry out this task, the Constitutional Court is defined as the sole body of constitutional jurisdiction in Ukraine, with appropriate powers. Their implementation takes the form of justice. Together with the courts of general jurisdiction, he is one of the only judicial authorities in Ukraine. In any country, the purity of the judiciary and the real independence are due to democratic principles and social justice. Ensuring the independence and impartiality of the courts is a key guarantee for the development of the State, since the judiciary must ensure the effective functioning of every branch of authority whose illegal actions a person must be protected from. Regrettably, as a result of judicial reform, the courts of general jurisdiction have recently been working under even worse conditions. The state is accompanied by negative phenomena and processes. Hence, an extremely large number of appeals to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on matters that are not known to him. As of September 1, this year, over 14,000. During the period of activity, the Constitutional Court adopted 113 decisions, including in constitutional matters - 88. About 40 percent of them were organized by Ukrainian national deputies. Nine conclusions have been reached, eight of them on draft amendments to the Ukrainian Constitution, none of which are known to have been implemented. Some 360 approvals of the Constitutional Court, more than 480 approvals of judicial colleges, have been accepted according to material obtained from subjects of the right to constitutional submission and appeal. The activities of the Constitutional Court contributed to the stability of the social political situation in the country, to the sharpness of the political opposition of various branches of government, to the real ways of implementing the constitutional principle of power-sharing, and to the development of local self-government. The practice of the bodies of the constitutional jurisdiction of other States, whose legal and legal basis for the organization of activities is close to Ukrainian, shows that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine does not give in to the number of cases under consideration. Moreover, the number of cases considered by the Constitutional Court in itself, in my view, is irrelevant. It is important that laws and other legal acts be adopted on the basis of the Constitution and answered, and that judicial constitutional control be effective and effective. The Constitution proclaimed and acts in Ukraine the principle of the rule of law, which is based on the State’s affirmation and enforcement of human rights and freedoms. Of course, he found his embodiment in the work of the Constitutional Court, in its decisions, in its conclusions. This principle implies the obligation of legal provisions for all organs, officials of the State, legislative authorities and those who are to carry out administrative activities, heads of State and courts of general jurisdiction. The principle of the rule of law enshrined in article 3 of the Constitution puts all of us, I mean legislative, executive and judicial branches of power, within certain clear limits for each jurisdiction. It follows that the activity of the State in general, its organs in particular, including the legislature, should be legal. The legal nature of the activities of the legislative authorities means that the content and direction of lawfulness determine human rights and freedoms. The Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act establish the obligation of decisions and conclusions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Is there a problem with the execution of acts by the Constitutional Court? Of course there is. The disregard for individual decisions of the Constitutional Court is evidenced by the fact that the court has had to deal with virtually the same questions over and over again. In particular, regarding the incompatibility of the mandate of the Ukrainian National Deputy with another representative mandate or residence in the public service, the incompatibilities of acting as Head of the local executive and village, village, city head, on paid medical care free of charge, the unconstitutional interference in the pretrial investigation, in the activities of the prosecutor's office, in individual cases. The facts behind this court decision show disrespect for the Basic Law of the State of persons whose decisions and actions were subject to judicial and constitutional control. In view of this, it would be appropriate to provide for responsibility for non-execution or improper implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, in particular the Constitutional and Legal Court, clearly, after the previous deep and comprehensive scientific consideration of the problem. It is often accompanied by the inertia of the legal thinking of the past, which is not based on proper legal regulation of social relations, but by efforts to establish control even where there is no need. These include the idea of implementing parliamentary control over decisions of the Constitutional Court, often expressed by individual scientists. In our view, this is the echo of the past when individual politicians and statesmen consider it possible to determine the ways and means of dealing with matters within the jurisdiction of the courts. Such an idea is not in line with article 6 of the Constitution, which defines the limits of the branches of government. In the event of its implementation, it may damage the constitutional and legal status of Parliament itself, make it unnecessary to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In our view, it would be appropriate to determine the possibility of adopting in Ukraine the Law on the Enforcement of Decisions of the Constitutional Court, which could provide for order and time limits for the drafting of a law or other legal act in the event of its individual provisions being declared unconstitutional, a further proportion of those legal acts which contain rules that fully or partially reproduce or supplement the provisions of a legal act declared unconstitutional. We also consider it necessary to regulate legislatively the terms of the challenge to the constitutionality of the legislation, especially when it comes to its form, rather than its content, the possibility of challenging constitutional inaction, the settlement of the term of detention at the expense of the accused when he is familiar with the material of the criminal case, etc. I would like the Supreme Council, figuratively speaking, to return to the issue of proper financing of the general courts, because a judge who begs for justice cannot protect a person from violations of his rights by the authorities. The successful implementation by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of its powers depends, among other things, on human resources. For the careful selection of candidates for judges, the considered approach to the final decision to appoint a judge, the creative potential of the court will ensure that any question is resolved in accordance with the requirements of the Basic Law of the State. I would like to point out that today’s terms of pay do not allow for the employment of highly qualified professionals in the apparatus of the Constitutional Court. The provisions of valid legislation aimed at strengthening the legal services of public authorities do not extend to the employees of the Constitutional Court. Finally, I would like to express my appreciation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, for the positive decision on the allocation of funds for the building in which we now work, and for its facilities. I conclude with the conviction that by working together we will solve our current and contributing problems in the interests of Ukraine, its citizens. I wish all of you, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, fruitful success in the legislative work for the benefit of society and the state. With regard to the question of the draft amendment bill to the Constitution, I heard that the project was under way on the way to the rostrum, which had already taken place in five sessions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u17	Dear National Deputies! The word is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u18	Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear National Deputies! Highly Dignified Masters and Shepherds! Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, leaders of the courts and local authorities! Decent representatives of the diplomatic corps! Dear journalists and all guests! The second session of the Supreme Council, which we are starting, will essentially determine the face, nature and effectiveness of the country's higher legislative body on this entire cadence, and then the present-day direction and prospects of Ukraine as states and societies. In turn, Ukraine needs, more than ever, responsible politicians and responsible politicians today. In our view, the realization of these outings of principle, the understanding that the centre of responsibility and decision-making is moving to Parliament, should be accompanied by every step of the Supreme Council, factions and committees, every national MP. In addition, a number of other factors will be involved that will distinguish the second session as a complex and tense one. The first and foremost are related to the 2003 budget. The question is obviously to move away from balance on the verge of economic uncertainty, to make an ambitious format and to fill this main economic document. After all, our losses can be summed up in a war that has been lost. So first of all, we need to figure out how we're going to accelerate the pace of production growth, how we're going to get to the level of tasks that can really create the conditions for a breakthrough in Ukraine into a new quality of economics and social policy, and ultimately democracy. Self-sustainment and low rates of economic growth are not our way. We need a mobilisation model for development, an active role of the state in the economic process, annual priorities, state investment in breakthroughs, the promotion of agrarian reform, decisive steps in the humanitarian sphere, extraordinary measures to combat crime and corruption. The second and equally important factor is the activation and radicalization of political life. The dynamic transformation of the weak Ukrainian political process to a surge of political emotions, multiplied by political initiatives and innovations by the President of Ukraine, threatens, among other things, to push aside the rest of the country's urgent problems of vitality with all the negative consequences resulting from this. There is a potential threat of involving the Supreme Council in the debate on the presidential and parliamentary elections under, as it were, political reform. And proposals like these and about the higher legislature are already being made, especially by political outsiders who have not gone to parliament, and they are likely to soon become the nature of the planned campaign. I'm sure the national MPs are the only ones that the Supreme Council is and will remain a stable heart in the state government system in general and will not allow it to shift its attention to virtual tasks. And another, no less important, position: The Supreme Council has no obligation to anyone but to the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Thank you. In addition, by introducing new elements into the opening of the session, we have pursued a very clear and specific goal -- to emphasize the consolidating role of Parliament and its responsibility for this, the need for openness and unity of all branches of government and institutions of the country, to prevent the dangers of mutual dissatisfaction between the authorities and the people. And what we have to do is, in the end, ensure that we have the state's fullness, that is, finally identify ourselves with the symbols of the state. And finally, the third factor is the periphery around the creation of a parliamentary majority and accordingly a clearer definition of the contours of a minority, more specifically the opposition. Clearly, this process will be catalysed by the state’s head of state’s consent to transfer to the majority the right to form a coalition government. The collision of positions regarding the restructuring of the Supreme Council will inevitably increase. Thus, the long - standing and muffled illness of the internal parliament’s opposition can result in new relapses. In all the irregularity and complexity of the situation, one thing is obvious: Parliament's structure is needed, but its activities cannot and should not be directed from the outside. We need to be determined to try and digest and sweep the Supreme Council, make it ineffective. Everything must be resolved directly by factions and groups, by national MPs on the basis of compromises and reconciliation of interests, by refusal to divide into winners and conquerors. The question of the majority or the coalition is the issue of the Supreme Council, and only the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues! First, just the urgent task of the Supreme Council is to define clear priorities for legislative work, which in turn would be based on strategic guidelines for the progress of Ukrainian society. Of course, it's a complex and also a long-standing problem, because factions and political parties have their priorities -- both inside and outside Parliament. The priority system is determined by the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. Hence the need to find consensus in a national format. And he was called upon to ensure the representative nature of the Supreme Council. It is primarily about fulfilling its direct constitutional obligation to enact the law on the principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies, the adoption of which would be a major achievement of social expectations as soon as possible for the solution of our development problems. We need to determine the technology and philosophy of doing this. Because, I remind you, the people's deputies have introduced seven bills on the principles of Ukraine's internal and foreign policy. At the same time, Ukraine's vision of the present and prospects for development is presented in the President's messages to the Supreme Council, a project of the government's programme. They have both common and excellent approaches to defining the components of internal and external politics. Yes, the only thing that matters is that in the social sphere of addressing poverty, providing quality and affordable health care, acquiring education regardless of the material wealth of citizens, and finally implementing pension reform are number one priorities. In the economic sphere, it's primarily the development of small and medium-sized businesses, the introduction of an innovative model, the creation of legal mechanisms for the continuous development of the national economy, the adoption of the Tax Code. External political orientation lies in the plane of European choice and the overall development of relations with Russia on the basis of equal partnership and mutual benefit. In terms of the political sphere, it is subordinated to the prospects of constitutional reform. In carrying out historical parallels, I would like to remind you that since the early days of 1919, the Government of the United Nations has made a declaration that is completely consistent with modern approaches -- the comprehensive development of parliamentaryism and self-government. So we have all the good reasons to get all the work to a higher level. This requires the formation of a working group, with the participation of drafters of bills, representatives of the President, government and the public, scientific institutions and specialists, to systematically compile, accumulate all works and produce one document. It should be noted that we do not have a permanent legislative canon, and parliamentary practice does not give us prescriptions as to how legislative regulations lay down the principles of internal and external politics. So we are free to choose the form and content of this law. Perhaps it is in its power to determine the parameters for future changes in the Constitution and the mutual responsibilities of the parties to the process. Any other options -- the deal, the memos -- will have no legal meaning. The basic mechanism for the implementation of this basic law should be an expanded legislative plan with a consistent step-by-step presentation of concrete steps. The previous attempts to identify national legislative development programmes were ineffective because they were not linked to the country’s development priorities, and the increase in legislative activity was accompanied by increased internal conflicts and structural disruptions. So only in such a system of coordinates, on the one hand, strategic orientations, on the other, the program of their implementation, can we solve or not the most complex problem of domestic legislation: to ensure its effectiveness while at the same time focusing on raising the dynamism of social development. It's hard, it's hard to do this, it doesn't go into the patterns of certain politicians, some groups, but it has to be done, and I think we're going to do it. We can't continue to be hostages of gross indicators. Moreover, only a third of all reported bills are accepted and implemented in general. According to the work of the Third Council, the figure is 26.6 percent. Of the more than half a thousand bills submitted for consideration in the second session, the vast majority refer to amendments and additions to existing legislation. [[55 per cent]] Each third question relates to bills proposed in a new or updated edition, including eight drafts of Ukraine’s new codes. It's really systemic and it's actually geared towards creating a reliable legal framework for state-building and socio-economic and humanitarian transformations, and it's only 27 projects. Parliamentary bills have different degrees of quality, including from the point of view of the completion of their mechanisms, a variety of objectives. [[And that's every second of their total.]] Accordingly, they will have different efficiency, socio-economic and other consequences if adopted. Perhaps it would be advisable to resolve the issue of whether laws and laws adopted on their basis would become nominal. I am convinced that such a decision will increase responsibility for both the bills passed and the final production of Parliament. It could also be considered that the right of legislative initiative belongs to a certain group of national deputies. We always appeal too much to foreign experience, so let's use it. It is worth paying attention to the proposal of experts to establish a National Register of Parliamentary and Government Initiatives, which would focus on basic bills for their thorough testing and promotion. This, by the way, would be a contribution to Parliament's national process of ensuring the openness and transparency of government. The mandate and status of committees that have been organically involved in parliamentary life in ten years should be expanded. They should, in particular, play the role of "filter" of drafts, solve the problem of their artificial alternatives, more actively harmonize competing concepts of legal regulation on one or the other. This will enable creative forces and resources to be saved, and it will increase the effectiveness of legislative work. In our view, some changes should be made to the emphasis and the question of increasing the presence of the Cabinet of Ministers in the legislative process, especially when its formation depends on the Supreme Council. This may also be the practice of mandatory consideration of government bills in the first reading, and allowing individual members of the government the right to amend any bill in the second reading. It seems appropriate to strengthen the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out an expert study of draft laws from the national deputies, primarily from the economic and financial point of view. Dear National Deputies! It takes increased attention to such an important component of our work as parliamentary control, starting with "accompaniment", monitoring every law and decision taken and ending with parliamentary hearings. The scope of the Supreme Council's control powers and its organs should increase -- both quantitatively and qualitatively. Extending the practice of hearing reports, including committees, holding days of government and parliamentary hearings in order to improve their preparation, is, in my opinion, the steps at which the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council should demonstrate their constitutional cohesion, constitutional openness, transparency, under control and accountability to the Ukrainian people. Obviously, this is where the Supreme Council’s profile committees, along with the relevant ministries and departments, have to work more fully to prepare the subject for discussion. In order to fully communicate the essence of the problem, which is mature, to the public, to the Ukrainian community, so that people can believe that both parliament and government are working on urgent issues. An urgent issue is the formation in the country of effective state financial control, which would function as a whole system. Today, it is carried out by about a dozen unrelated organs. The legal field of their activities is not clearly defined, in most cases each subject of state control is acting on its own discretion, setting for itself limits of competence, standards and methodological principles of audit work, which reduces its quality, leads to collisions, duplication. However, according to the Court of Auditors, in the past year, violations of current legislation have been detected in the use of state funds for nearly 2.4 billion dollars, and consider this figure. Of these, it's illegal and purposeless, by 1.9 billion dollars. At the same time, we fear that there is not enough money. The Supreme Council committees are currently working on seven bills related to the regulation of State financial control. Without delay, we have to adopt an appropriate basic law that clearly distinguishes the organs of Parliament and government financial control, determined by the subjects of State financial control, the hierarchy of bodies that carry it out, the forms of their organization, and the interactions. Social financial resources are formed at the expense of taxpayers, and therefore the position of the legislative authority on their use is a universal principle of democracy and must be decisive. This control calls for the House of Accounts as the main link of the financial control system. Dear colleagues! The President of Ukraine actually opened the way to reforming the political system of the state. Now there was a real opportunity to realize the long - talked and long - worn goals. The responsibility for this has been refocused on the Supreme Council. However, there is no other way that in turn we need serious work to take into account all its ingredients, present - day, and far - reaching consequences. Limitations on agitation and belief in the importance of the matter have been exhausted. First of all, we need to define conceptually what we want to say in terms of change, its scale and its boundaries, and what we want to say openly and honestly. It is not safe to manipulate government, and reforms are only meant to redistribute powers, as some want, in a triangle: President of the Supreme Council - Cabinet of Ministers. And for such work to be systematic and legitimate, socially accepted and supported by Parliament, a previous experience of the work of the Constitutional Commission would be useful. At the same time, broad consultations with all political forces should be initiated, and a completely different kind of emotional tension and trust should be established. We need an all-U.S. consensus, a rejection of the moods of rematchism, self - indulgence, and ambition. After all, when we aim for someone, we often hit the country. In this connection, and not only in this regard, the words of the great Ukrainian humorist, listed in the Anthology "Breakdown", organized by Yuri Lavrinenko, refer to the Chuhrainians. Speaking of their deep national qualities, he's in a ironic form turning to "as the first cowards built their culture": [[I mean, about us with you, dear colleagues.]] "They took it very carefully, and then they set out for something, right behind the doves, and as they pulled themselves together, they took the polemized, as they gazed, and all the blood flowed, and stood up and groaned: [[They had this kind of weapon, the manner of knights' medieval spears.]] - If we knew we were hitting each other's heads, we wouldn't fight! And it's not surprising that you're not going to be able to live a cultural life with your heads broken down. So you have to get rid of the boredom of the opposition, and you have to give up the fact that the moment of truth usually occurs for us during times of conflict. It is important that people today and tomorrow feel the equality and predictability of social change. This will only increase confidence in the work of reforming the political system. That's a second. Thirdly, in the process of doing this, you can't allow blind copying of foreign samples, dumping in extremes. It is necessary to analyse impartially what has given the country the presidential parliamentary form of government, how much it has exhausted itself, and what it can give the parliamentary presidency in line with our historical experience, the characteristics of Ukraine's creation as a state and society, the formation of a Ukrainian nation. It is equally important that political change be developed in a single context, in a single state-building perspective, and also in order to ensure synchronism, to prevent political reform from being disrupted to the detriment of the economy, the social sphere. Our recent history shows what this threatens a country — a sharp, massive crisis, a breakdown. Fourthly, when we consider the Constitution not as a bandage, but as a tool for ensuring a healthy growth of the nation, realizing that it is in fact a new version of the Basic Law, we must, in an integrated and systematic manner, identify the stages of the development and implementation of political reform. It's a fundamental moment that can't be avoided. Dear National Deputies! Is the Supreme Council of the Fourth Council able to effectively exercise the powers placed on the country’s higher legislative body? The answer is yes! It is to a certain extent that the real healing of the state, its civilizational breakthrough in new quality, the interaction of power and society, the creation of a responsible, adequate political system. The Supreme Council may and should form a national interest, act as a barometer of the moods and aspirations of the Ukrainian people, an expression of his will. And in order for our Parliament to remain truly the self-sustaining and decisive driving force of Ukrainian politics, it has to completely rule out any kind of service. For him there is and will be one interest - social, national. The Supreme Council of Ukraine also needs to take full control of democratic culture, to stay away from the front in relations with the President and the government, to be able to compromise between ideal and practical, to conduct an average parliamentary line. Finally, I would like to address the subject of freedom of speech and freedom of the media in the light of two circumstances: Parliament’s first sense of reality in this area; and secondly, this theme should find real reflection in our activities. In doing so, we must be guided not only by the spiritual and moral issues of the native media but also by the problems of their economic development and ideological freedom. Clearly, without economic independence, freedom of the press should not be spoken of. At the same time, even in cases where some media have proven their economic ability, the lack of a transparent and professional decision-making system creates new political levels of dependence on printed publications, radio and television. All of this, as well as the absence of an appropriate political culture, leads to the fact that Ukrainian journalists cannot feel free from pressure from their editors and media owners, and our citizens are deprived of the opportunity to receive objective, impartial information. To give impetus to the free development of domestic media, urgent and serious work is needed on changes in current legislation. We look forward to the active participation of journalists themselves in making suggestions. Particular attention should be paid to the inadmissibility of monopolizing Ukrainian television and radio broadcasting, strengthening the role of the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Council, creating a level playing field in obtaining appropriate broadcasting rights for all media market subjects, developing legislative incentives to strengthen the advertising market in Ukraine, organizing cable networks, internet viewing and foreign media activities in Ukraine. In time and in the creation of a parliamentary channel. In addition, special emphasis should be made on the matter, especially as a matter of urgency. Dear national deputies, distinguished guests! More than ever, Ukraine needs, not heroism today, but balance, not revolutions, but peace, not agitation, but the intensification of domestic ownership and the restoration of national feelings, not the search for favor abroad, but the strengthening of ties with international partners that count with the country, recognize its national interests. I am convinced that its vigorous and effective actions during the second session of the Supreme Council will demonstrate that it responds to its call to be a practical and moral leader of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! During the intersessional period, a group of Ukrainian National Deputies for their active participation in the legislative work and in connection with the Jubilee are marked by honorary letters and credentials from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us begin the tradition of handing these badges to the session hall. Let me carry out this mission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u20	Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! For the benefit of the Ukrainian people in promoting the rule of law, the development of democracy, a significant personal contribution to Parliament's legislative work and active social and political activities are rewarded with the honour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Astrov-Sumilov Hennady Kostinović, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a palivative energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security; Boiko Georgi Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption; Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood; Lukjanenko Levko Grigorović, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence; Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Protection; Hara Vasil Georgievovich, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour; Yukhnovski Oleg Ivanovich, secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations The grammaton of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is awarded: Hirschfeld Anatoly Musiyovich, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment; Zubanov Vladimir Aleksandrovich, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship; Finally Vladimir Leontijovich, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality; Infantry Volodymyr Yuliyovich, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget; Rešnjak Ivan Mikolaiovich, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs; Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MP ethics and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine; Svatkov Leonid Borisovich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations; Dmitry Volodymyrovich, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking; Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization; Dry Jaroslav Mihajlovich, Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour; Ms. Mihailo Lukovic, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood; Toločko Petrović, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education; Mr. Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security; Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons; Montenegro Vladimir Kirilovich, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of People's Agriculture, Property and Investment; Swedeko Mikolaajovich, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues; Mr. Wekrousov Anatoly Alexiyovich, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government; Panasovski Oleg Grigorovich, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u21	Dear National Deputies! When we decided on the question of the award of the National Deputies for credits to the Ukrainian people for their credentials, the credentials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the session hall, we came out of the need to raise the role and significance of these parliamentary marks. In the future, it may be helpful to consider the appropriate legislative strengthening of the social impact of such an assessment by the State of merit of those who are rewarded with honorary literacy or with the letter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If there is no objection, I would ask the committee heads Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev and Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenka to deal with the proposals. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. You know that the citizens of Ukraine and the Supreme Council, including, have not remained indifferent to the victims as a result of the accident at Sknilov Airport. On behalf of the Supreme Council, 100,000 dollars have already been counted for families of victims. National MP Kruczkov Georgi Korniyovich introduced a draft decree listing the daily earnings of the national deputies to the families of those who died and suffered as a result of the military plane crash in Lviv. I'm betting on the vote to put the matter in order of the day and vote. Please prepare the "Race" system. Vote please, Your Honor. "For" - 334. Decision taken. Please show by factions. The National Deserved National People's Choir of Ukraine named H. Veryovka performs the spiritual anthem of Ukraine "God's Great, Only, To Us Ukraine's Food." Thank you. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals from authorized MPs and groups. I ask the factions and groups to register to make statements, messages and suggestions, while I make public the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Peter Simonnka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the payment of the debt from the salary of a former employee of the subsidiary of the Special Branch of the Kiyivenergobud. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please be supportive. "For" - 206. Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prejudice the destruction of Ukraine's only scientific and research institute of cellulose industry. [[UKRANDIP]] I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for a referral. "For" - 212. Decision taken. Georgia Kruczkova - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on whether a criminal investigation has been completed, as a result of the use of a bank account for a citizen of Kravczuk in the Swiss bank, to dissipate state funds in a particularly large way. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for a referral. Please make up your mind. "For" - 151. Decision taken. Jury Lucenka is head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of financial discipline by the leadership of the Open Shareholder Society. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 162. Decision taken. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the withdrawal of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikli Petrovic, from the European Election Group and its membership in the Ukrainian MP's faction, as well as of the entry of Sufric Nestor Ivanovic as part of the Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I also inform you that to represent the MP group "National Choice" authorized by the national deputies of Ukraine Bagraev Mikola Georgievic, Mikola Mikhajlovich, Gošovsky Vladimir Sergeiovich, Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich, Solosenko Mikola Pavlovich, Topolovo Viktor Semenović, Ckitishvili Envera Omarovich. Dear colleagues, after my speech, the national deputy Boki and a group of national deputies wrote with a note: "Please specify for the session room the concept of 'political outsider', as used by you in the plural. [[probably for the session hall.]] If you follow the results of the parliamentary elections, it's "To Yedu!" That's what I'm talking about. Do you, by tradition, think it's someone else?" I think we need to read the results carefully. I meant those parties that make the right statements today, but they didn't go to Parliament. Anything else can be read in the publications of the distinguished People's Deputy Boko in the newspaper The Village News, where there are comprehensive answers. From the procedure? Please. Turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy, Matvienka, a faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u22	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to ask you a question. Please inform the Supreme Council on how to explain the work of the Supreme Council in general and today in particular. Are we going to have a guarantee of the broadcast of the Supreme Council meeting as the faction leaders speak now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Anatoly Sergiyovich, I would like to inform you that disclosure is taking place in full measure. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the factions. We take 45 minutes to do so according to the Rules. According to the applications submitted, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk is the first to speak from the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Please. To prepare Timoshenko, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u24	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs (Balgato-mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Dear National Deputies! This session, according to our faction, differs from the previous ones that we need to implement a very important task that affects the change in the form of power in the country, without taking any steps that may prevent the adoption of the laws that Ukraine needs today. This task is extremely difficult in general and especially for our parliament, whose deputies (renewablely, I think) have such an easy attitude towards power-building, especially the government. For example, I recently heard about this in this room and in the press. The parliamentary majority, which will form, can immediately begin to form a coalition government. I stress that no government without amending the Constitution can be formed because it will be a violation of the Constitution, and the government will be illegal. Even limited liability societies are formed on the basis of normative acts, and we want to build a government based on the goodwill of the President. The President’s goodwill must be directed towards law enforcement, and it cannot be transformed into a law constitution without proper procedures. So any step in this direction is groundless and illegal. I don't know what's more, whether it's ignorance or just something behind it. We have to start if we want to work seriously, by making changes to the Constitution. Because the Constitution and the law have to match, if the law doesn't fit the Constitution, it can't work. This is also understandable if we respect the Constitution and the law. Next. It is often necessary to hear the thesis that does not matter what form of authority, and it is important who is in power. Well, perhaps those who say so mean first and foremost themselves and their loved ones. It can't be! The government must be constituted by law, transparent, responsible and controlled, and the Constitution provides for restraint and opposition. In fact, it was about such people that a well - known Russian writer said that if we brought angels to power, they would eventually have horns growing. That's why I'm saying that the Constitution provides for who has the horns: The President of the Supreme Council, if she's starting to grow, and the Supreme Council is the President. That's perfectly normal, so all the relevant procedural, normative documents have to be provided for in the Constitution. I want us to understand that we need to find out in this session room what we want, which parliamentary-presidential republic. I am convinced that we need to have a discussion, perhaps a round table or parliamentary reading, in order to find out which parliamentary state is really meant. Is it only the creation of a majority and a coalition government that is already a parliamentary state? I'm not surprised if, after the creation of most of the individual media, they'll write that we've already begun the transition to a parliamentary state, we have a parliamentary state. [[Unconstitutional, I stress, because there is no relevant norm in the Constitution]] Well, it can't be so irresponsible, so careless and disrespectful of our own Constitution, and it has to be done in order for Parliament to start over: making changes and additions to the Constitution. Without that, any reform is impossible. Amendments to the Constitution in accordance with Article 85 are being tabled by Parliament, so I invite the people's deputies to understand for themselves what we want and not to influence the situation in such a way that it gets worse, because it will harm those processes that are already taking place in Ukraine, I mean positive processes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u25	Thank you. From the procedure there is the National Deputy Martinyuk, a faction of Communists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u26	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, we must express great satisfaction that at last the people of Ukraine, our voters, have the opportunity to listen to the direct broadcast of what is happening in the session hall. And I think we're going to be told the heartfelt words of gratitude, including, I think, the head of the Supreme Council who managed to do that. However, speaking of total publicity, I would like to turn on the broadcast on the street, since today many voters have gathered at the walls of the Supreme Council, and they will also be happy to listen to the talks of the factions’ leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no objection to this offer? So we're going to have to turn on the broadcast on the street. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Timoshenko from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Next will be the word of the national deputy of Hubsky. Please apply for a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u28	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear friends! Yesterday in Ukraine, I think, a historic event took place: opposition forces announced on September 16, 3 p.m., in Kiev and in all parts of Ukraine, the start of a nationwide campaign of civil disobedience. Given that there were about 500 representatives of regional, central and foreign media representatives at the press meeting yesterday, but no television channel except the STB and the New Channel has even reported on this event, at the hands of opposition leaders, I want to read about the appeal of opposition forces to the people. "The policies that have been implemented in Ukraine over the past 11 years have led to the formation of a state with tens of millions of destroyed human destiny, destroyed economy, multibillion-dollar domestic and external debt, with a totally ineffective army and corrupt power structures, a state that does not meet the most fundamental needs of public development. We're trying to pin down the right words about democratic principles, about social stability, about the rule of law, about economic growth, and at that time the regime's servants privatized and rewrote people's will and property, burned, stole and reselled national independence. Today, we can only say bitterly that only one person is free in Ukraine — Leonid Kuchma. He is free to do whatever he pleases, free to betray national priorities, free to destroy the lives of the entire nation, free to distribute among his family the still viable remnants of national wealth. We also find bitterly that only one person in Ukraine is independent of Leonid Kuchma. He is independent of pre-election promises, independent of responsibility for the fate of the country and of the people, independent of pity for the disadvantaged. He is independent not only of the inner self but also of the international public opinion that he has long since been erased from the list of not only respected but just worthy politicians. The people had a chance to change that situation in the last parliamentary elections. Our people have shown wisdom and said no to those who are now in power, and most of the votes have been given to parties and blocs of opposition forces. But that victory was stolen. This victory must be restored as soon as possible. So we suggest that we immediately proceed to the presidential presidential elections so that we can stop the degradation immediately and finally move on to rescue and recovery. We demand timely, honest, transparent presidential elections, in which the people are finally free from criminal pressure, which has become ordinary to Ukraine, bribery and humiliation will tell who is worthy to rule the country during this difficult period. The people must immediately receive the right to elect a President who will not be a symbol of humiliation, injustice, and holocaust, but a real guarantee of the country’s independence, economic growth, and social progress. We have a historic opportunity to prove to the world and, above all, to ourselves that we can fight for Ukraine, for its true sovereignty, for the happiness of our people. To prove that these are our highest values, the ideals that we are the only powerful people. We urge you to rise up, Ukraine, against all that makes your life debased and beggary! No one has the right to stay or stay away, for the lives of children, young people, families, the systematic killing of human destiny, the deliberate destruction of the lives of older ones. The government cynically calls it social harmony and economic growth. Our goal is to stop it. But we will gain victory only if no one remains indifferent, looks for a convenient excuse to avoid fighting, and does not expect someone else to solve this vital problem for him. The other one won't decide. We're announcing an all-Ukrainian civil protest campaign called Rise, Ukraine! It will begin on September 16, at 3 p.m., in Kiev, in the European Square, and in all areas, areas, and cities, and will go on to complete victory over the corruption monarchy of Kuchma. The holding of early presidential elections without falsifications and political terror will be a real beginning of the process of shaping a democratic and effective political system in Ukraine, a system that will balance the rights and responsibilities of all branches of government where dictators will not be born. Fate gives us a chance for a great future, a right to be called a nation. It is not the opposition that wins or loses in Ukraine as a whole in this action, not the action of civil protest that we all win or lose together, but our opportunity to live in light, love and harmony. And we firmly believe that real change and victory will come. Do not be indifferent, stand up and be victorious, Ukraine." Alexander Moroz, Peter Simonenko, and I were signed by the leaders of the opposition forces. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u29	From the People's Government faction will be the national deputy of the Hubsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich. He will be given the floor by national deputy Tihypko Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u30	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[constituency 196, Cherkas region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I am absolutely convinced that unengaged politicians and all the Ukrainian society have highly appreciated the willingness of the Head of State to limit their powers to the great goal of creating European-type power in Ukraine, when Parliament determines the content and direction of political and economic activities of executive power, and the model of elections on a proportionate basis will enable Ukraine to build a pluralistic society that takes into account interests and concerns, and groups of people of different political orientations. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is exactly what will be the consolidation of democracy in action. So today, we really have a unique chance, because we've got an unprecedented basis in Ukraine's years of independence to compromise all political forces, to guide exactly that part of our society and the political elite who had doubts yesterday about how we would all go. This is exactly the right basis for building a truly democratic majority in the Supreme Council. And we need to make good use of that opportunity. First of all, without delay, create a democratic majority in the Supreme Council. At the same time, draft relevant laws to amend the Constitution and electoral laws. Because any good will must be secured by appropriate legislative acts that legitimize it. Working on future drafts is, in my view, appropriate to begin with the development of the concept of political reform in Ukraine and, already on the basis of this concept, to open draft documents. As part of the commission to work on draft concepts alongside scientists, experts, of course, national MPs, representatives of different parties, factions, political forces, I am absolutely sure, we need to include representatives of local self-government bodies who work most closely with the population and feel the benefits and the downsides of government structures. In my opinion, committees and working groups should also include representatives of different categories of workers, including, however that may sound, workers and peasants. I am absolutely sure that the tradition of the Soviet era in this regard should be maintained. The forces that unite in most of the Supreme Council will be able to start forming a coalition government, bearing in mind that we bear and bear responsibility for it, interested in working with it, based on European traditions. Our People's Government faction is ready to join the majority in working together to create a legislative foundation for the future, I stress, the parliamentary-presidential republic. After all, the words, and if we do not make changes to the relevant laws, to the Constitution, will not change anything. And we need to understand that very clearly today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u31	I would like to invite you to the presentation of the National MP Tihypak from the faction of the political parties of the Ukrainian industry and entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine. He will be followed by a national deputy named Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u32	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! From the beginning of this rostrum, I'd like to express my sympathy to all the close, relatives of those Ukrainians who died at the Sknelly Airport on the Mine "Ukraine", on the mine called the West. All members of the faction feel sorry for you and will do everything they can to ensure that such tragedies are not repeated in Ukraine. This summer was rich in political events. When I say that, I'm primarily talking about the President's initiative to move from the Presidential Parliamentary to the Parliamentary Presidential Republic. This statement, in my view, has extraordinary weight. Because if we succeed in making these changes, we're going to get a completely different country, we're going to get power more responsible and more effective, and we're going to worry about how its work affects the lives of specific people. Whether these initiatives can be developed, implemented in Ukraine, I think depends primarily on the Supreme Council. We make these decisions, and everything will be resolved during the second session. What do I think is needed? The centre of these political initiatives should be the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to set up our own group, and I agree with the rules that the Head of the Supreme Council stressed in his statement. We need to take the initiative and bring the proposed changes to a concrete result. Of course, the economic event of this session will be the adoption of the budget. The budget needs a concrete, absolutely real one, it needs to be adopted at the right time. Where should we start? In my opinion, we all, every national MP, have to get a concrete plan of action that we and the government will do, let alone a plus-minus week. If that's the case, it'll be easy. However, I believe that the budget should also be accompanied by structural reforms. We're saying that today we need to strengthen control over the use of budgetary resources, and we need to see how the Public Procurement Act works. We must strengthen the impact of treasury and the real impact of the Court of Auditors. We need to continue privatization. Why do you need 25 percent plus one share of state-owned enterprises if they make the state virtually no impact on the work of these enterprises? I'm sure that would add something to it. Why did we stop the privatization of energy if it's obvious that businesses are working more effectively after privatization? We are talking about political reforms, but we must recognize that the impact of economic reforms is equally important for this country. We must support an enterprise that is a guarantee of stability in the country. This is also true of sectoral reforms. As much as we wouldn't talk about health reform if we didn't take public control of budget use, there would be nothing in this sector, even though we would be spending 10 percent of GDP or more. I'm sure by goodwill this session can be a turning point in the formation of a truly effective, effective, responsible majority who will work for Ukraine and the Ukrainians, which is what I want for all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u33	Thank you. People's deputy, leader of the Democratic Initiative Group, Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, is invited to the floor. He will be followed by a national deputy, Mr. Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u34	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[Electoral District 177, Kharkiv Region]] Democratic Initiatives. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! History is only instructive when we want to learn from it, so be mindless. Mikhailo Gruszewski did not build Ukrainian statehood because he did not have the support of the people. And the people didn't understand the perspective of statehood, because Ukrainian Democrats didn't understand it in the person of Vinickenka, Ephraim, Antonovich, Naumenka, Dorosenko. A sad and strange example of the failure of democracy in the Weimar Republic. History has led to the impossibility of parliamentary democracy without those responsible for national interests and effective parties, without a mature civil society and a politically conscious nation. The President of Ukraine also urged the Ukrainian people on August 24, 2002. He actually formulated the principles of a new constitutional reform formula aimed at the evolution of the state system -- the transition to the parliamentary republic. The sense of a systemic social crisis, the halting of national progress, the shocking poverty of most Ukrainians degrade our dignity and honor. Unmotivated by national interests, competition in the branches of power, the depravity of governmental and civil ambitions have virtually destroyed the principle of distribution of power by transforming the mechanism of balance and restraint into an axle in the wheel of institutional development. This raised the consumer model of political elite behaviour in the country and the strong role of the Ukrainian people in state-building processes. On this background, the convulsions of statehood, sown in the history of the romantic '90s, will impoverish parliamentaryism as opposed to autocracy and the centre of pluralistic democracy. Therefore, the Democratic Initiatives MP supports the President's proposals for a new institutional structure and an increased political responsibility to the nation. We call for consolidation in constitutional reform with the realization that this right belongs to our sovereign, the Ukrainian people. We're just the orderlies of the people's will, and let's not compete, which one of us, individually or corporately, has the right to represent it, because we're not going to take advantage of history again. It's important in the emotions that we don't have a water dispute and a new child of democracy in the struggles on the barricades. Remember, they are always pregnant with dictatorship. We must do this without delay in contrast with those who feel that we are not yet mature, not ready, especially in terms of political search for a national consensus. It could be formed by a kind of pact of political elites, a social treaty. An example is Spain’s experience of power and political elite in signing the Manclau Pact between Communists, fascists, and Democrats in Madrid in 1977. The adoption of the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies on a proportionate basis and constitutional regulation of the activities of the parliamentary majority and opposition is an important issue. From the point of view of the parliamentary group "Democratic Initiatives" in today's parliament, this issue can be resolved by signing a political agreement itself. It's a public policy that's built on a joint programming platform to take on political responsibility. The parliamentary majority should form as a social phenomenon in the context of European Parliamentarianism, as a tool for conventional interaction and solidarity. Only in this way can we form a coalition government of national unity, and that is the kind of government that can stop Ukraine from being pushed down into a deep crisis and harmonise power with the interests of the people. This will be a consensus between us and the nation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u35	The word is given to the National Deputy of Moroz Alexandre Alexandrovitch of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. It will be followed by Raisa Vasilovna Bogatirov from the faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u36	? Len Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Today’s session will have a clear political color. The contradiction that defines the future of society and the state has grown to the point: it will be a criminal dictatorship or a democratic republic. The understanding of this contradiction, its presence is demonstrated, and in the form of a borrowed innovation, the President's appeal to the people. In it he once again demonstrated what he said, did the opposite, and what he thought he did not say, though everyone knows. The Socialist Party faction, expressing the will of its constituents, wants to ensure that in Ukraine the words and affairs of power do not diverge so that the actions of power are transparent and understandable to people so that citizens can be convinced everywhere -- and in the center and in places -- that the authorities care for the citizen rather than the clans. As the superior authorities can see, it has been evident since yesterday. The silence of yesterday’s press conference has already been discussed. Half a thousand journalists arrived from all over the country in spite of the bandits ’ actions. [[true word]] In the eyes of the passengers, DAI workers simply pierced the wheels of separate buses. Some 15,000 people came to Montenegro yesterday to meet with opposition leaders. In Lviv, 3,000 teachers took part in a protest. It's all about the central television and the radio. You should have seen the forest of the hands of the indignant people who insist on changing the President's system of power and resignation. These people can't survive: electricity prices, utilities are rising, city pensioners are cut off from the world, because the tariffs are up and you have to pay at least 50 or 60 dollars per month. In general, agriculture is cut off from life. Prices of grains are halved, fuel prices are increased by one and a half times, and the price of ready bread remains the same. The village sings, bankrupts completely. The tax office is dealing with extortion by taking the last grain for 240 dollars per tonne, three times the cost of the real price. It's a robbery! Horrible corruption, bribery that prevents people from breathing, trade in state sovereignty at the highest level, and total lies in the media -- that's the face of today's government. People demand a change in this power, this system of power, starting with the resignation of the President. The opposition does not fight for self - control, as someone tries to explain it, it seeks the authority of the people to ensure that thieves are not in positions of responsibility, that the courts are independent, that tariffs on utilities and transportation are reduced so that the debts, pensions and social benefits are returned immediately so that education and health care are at the expense of the budget, as provided for in the Constitution. And all of this is possible when the system of power changes. The President expressed his support for political reform by repeating several of the thesis that we have stood up for since our party was formed, but the practical steps taken by the President testify to his contrary intentions. The essence of reforms, the role of the majority, the transition to the parliamentary presidential form of government, in the understanding of the head of state's inspirers, is that the majority may have a measure of influence on the formation of the government, and in its poor work, together with government officials, they may resign. So Parliament's function is kind of increasing, but on one condition: Parliament, most of it, is appointed directly by the President with the use of known "democratic" tools -- the tax service, the prosecutor's office, the security service and others. Those who do not believe may ask some of those deputies who are present in the majority. It's hypocrisy, not reform, because what kind of a state is that when there's no money in the budget for the handballs that Ukraine needs today, and more than $100 million is spent on high-ranking villas when an official can give a yacht for $12 million, and the prosecutor's office is silent and doesn't see it? What is this state, and what is human rights here?Oh, my God! It's power, it's power. We need to change the government system. The faction insists: the first to vote is to put the draft law on elections on a proportional basis, to consider a bill on changes to the Constitution. And there's no need for any new concepts, as Vladimir Mikhailovich says. There's no need for parliamentary committees. I would like you to read article 85 of the Constitution every time you refer to journalists: this is a unique function of Parliament. The President needs to sign the laws on temporary commissions of inquiry, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Court of Auditors, adopted by the Supreme Council, to ensure that the meetings of the Supreme Council are continuously broadcast and to write a statement that our society is looking forward to. I turn to everyone who listens to us: The border of slavery cannot be crossed illegally. Don't sit back. On September 16th, join the "Rise, Ukraine" campaign. . [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u37	The word for speaking from the faction of "Ukraine" is given to the national deputy to the richer Raisa Vasilivna. Prepare Petra Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u38	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[constituency 41, Donetsk Region]] Honorable Presidium, honourable members of the government, high officials and fellow national deputies! Allow me to join all the greetings that have been heard today at the address of the National Deputies at the beginning of the second session. For us, this session is to open a new, very important stage in the political life of the state. In the order of the day of our session, we have a large list of drafts that can be called life - sustaining without exaggeration. And certainly, with the President’s address to the people on August 24, the emphasis of our political parliamentary life will be somewhat different. Our faction sees this political document as a new stage of statehood, a change in the political system of the state, the formation of a parliamentary majority and its coalition government, the establishment of a proportional electoral system. All these political steps are essential for dynamic and continuous development. In our view, the President's proposal to all political forces to engage in the political reform process of the State deserves not only attention but also support. We are confident that such an approach is a policy such as war, or a political struggle, when everyone wants only his or her absolute victory, resulting in the loss of everyone. Today, all the MPs and factions are on the verge of making some pretty important strategic decisions, and our faction is also taking care of it. The decisions that we will make must first and foremost be politically balanced. We support the very conceptual approach to the changes that we will legislatively anchor in this session hall. We support a systematic approach, and it is on the basis of laws and changes to the Constitution that we propose to conduct these reforms. For the Ukraine faction, regional development problems are the priorities of activities. Therefore, proposals for administrative and territorial reform and strengthening local self-government find our undeniable support. We also intend to support regional development priorities and, with the approval of Ukraine's 2003 State Budget. Of course, if we don't strengthen Parliament's control function, if we don't reinforce certain personnel changes in government, we won't be able to solve poverty, affordable health care, pension reform and quality education today. I want to ask everyone in the room: Can you do all this? In our opinion, yes. When? And then when we're in each other, we're not just going to see political opponents. The "Regions of Ukraine" faction will direct its activities towards the legislative implementation of the initiatives made in the document, so that it is through legislation that these initiatives do not become a coin of exchange and are not merely instantaneous means of political struggle and political intrigue. We call on everyone to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u39	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Assadchev insists on a rep. Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u40	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] I wanted to say that love of the State requires respect for its symbols. The information received by respected socialists is very interesting, but even it does not allow the State Herb to be glued. There's a lot of places where you could put it. I'm asking them to change the location of this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u41	A statement from the Communist Party faction of Ukraine is given to National Deputy Simonek Petr Mikolaiovich. To prepare for the people's deputy to Gapoczki.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u42	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear fellow MPs! In the view of our faction, the efforts of the Supreme Council during this session should be referred to the most important priority bills and the adoption of relevant laws, which would indeed prevent Ukraine from rapidly falling into the trap of backwardness and marginalization. An unannounced analysis of the achievements of the past 11 years, no matter what the reverse of the presidential media, shows that the main socio-economic outcome of the regime of Kuchma is the total economic collapse, impoverishment and injustice of the people, the loss of real State independence, the establishment of the power of criminal oligarchic dictatorship. In Ukraine, there has been a situation in which public authority is guided not by the development of productive forces and productive relations but by purely fiscal and protectionist interests that are not only in conflict with the interests of industrial, social, cultural development, but primarily with the interests of our working people. There has been a situation where a centralized before-the-discharge State has ceased to meet the basic needs of public development when a State, in the face of a despotic ruling top, has become an institution responsible for looting and desolating the country and people in the name of enriching clans and oligarchs. The Jesuit perversions of the results of the elections to the Supreme Council, which we witnessed during the last election campaign, as well as the election, require us, the people's deputies, to consider one of the main tasks of the Supreme Council, a change, namely, a radical change in the system of power, not the erzac reform proposed by the President and which will inevitably lead to Ukraine's transition from a corrupt monarchy to a feudal despot. That is why we, the Communists and MPs, have consistently warned us about the idea of changing the power system to decide from the first steps and from the first steps to virtually clear up the distortions it imposes, as demonstrated by the President's statement. Based on these assessments of the current situation, a faction of communists will determine the priorities of the drafts for consideration at the current session. First of all, it is necessary to begin with the immediate legislative reconciliation of the Presidential Administration, the legislative breakdown of the falsification mechanisms of the elections, the adoption of the Law on elections on a proportionate basis, the adoption of laws aimed at ensuring the economic rights of citizens to employment. The main contradiction of time is the most profound contradiction between the private oligarchic form of allocation of profits from oil, gas, tobacco, liqueur, mining and other industries and the full crisis in health, education, culture, science, defence, security, poverty and poverty of our people requires that the Supreme Council immediately develop and adopt a law on the gradual nationalization of the leading sectors of the present economy. All of this must be aimed at filling and budgeting on the basis of the needs of our people, people of work, the need to finance the major industries and programmes that protect the rights of our people. Dear people's deputies, we also understand very well that the adoption of the State Budget Act does not yet mean its implementation. For 11 years, the country lived without a budget, and whatever laws were passed, they would not be implemented as long as criminality was in place. We therefore believe that the main issues of the current session should be the political future of Ukraine and, of course, the question of the change of power. The outcome of the change of power must be to put the whole system of power under the authority and control of the people, so that we do not have representatives of the criminal oligarch system in the State, and the authorities do indeed reflect the interests of the people. Deputies! Today, the Supreme Council is under unprecedented pressure from the President and his Administration, becoming an instrument for the interclan trade transfer of Ukraine. It remains to be hoped that we, as members of the Supreme Council at this session, will still be able to ensure the legislative process, guided by civil debt, not fear or personal loyalty. The Communist faction has proposed among the more than 40 bills that will improve and improve the lives of our people. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would now like to address you. As Chairman, you have no right to violate the Constitution and today you have violated it - the text of the State Hymn of Ukraine is not approved. And to the end. We, the Communists, have decided to carry out protests throughout Ukraine, and call on all citizens, all democratic and healthy forces of society, to support the protest action aimed at changing the system of government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u43	The People's Choice Group has a national deputy, the leader of the Gapochka faction. Then there will be a national deputy Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u44	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[electoral district 113, Lugansk Region]] I have a request. Take it off! I'm not your leader, and I don't work under your terms. So do not impose your portraits. Dear Presidium! Respectable members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! On behalf of the People's Choice Group, I would like to congratulate all those present on the opening of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and wish us all fruitful and productive work. Our electors have long been waiting and require us to adopt legislation expeditiously that can make a real difference to their lives. Finally, let us meet their just demands! The People's Choice Group believes that it is necessary to focus the efforts of the deputies on urgent solutions to such problems as poverty alleviation, improvement of health care and education systems, tax and pension reforms. The promise to focus on their decisions was made in the electoral programmes of the absolute majority of the legislators in this Chamber. The President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilović Kuchma, in his recent address to the Ukrainian people, stressed the need for an early solution. In our view, the first step that would enable us to move from words to words should be the speedy formation of a parliamentary majority with not only the right to form a coalition Cabinet of Ministers, but also the full responsibility of the Government. This step would demonstrate the seriousness of our intentions, in cooperation with other branches of government, it would contribute in a timely manner to the adoption of important legislation such as the State Budget Act 2003, the Tax Code and many others, on which the near future of Ukraine depends. The members of the People's Choice Group support the President's idea of the need for a constitutional change in the political system towards the transition to the parliamentary republic. At the same time, we are opposed to being too hasty with the reform of the Ukrainian electoral system, in particular with the transition from a mixed electoral system to a proportional system. The electorate is today addressing, not parties, but major MPs. For many citizens, this is the last hope to be heard. We believe that people should not be deprived of the last chance of justice. Deputies! What we have to do in the coming months does not compare with what was done during the previous session. And for our work to be successful, there is a need for a spirit of constructive, calm and healthy pragmatism to reign in the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is why the People's Choice Group calls upon all people's deputies, regardless of their ideological beliefs, to renounce their populist statements and destructive appeals and, despite the differences that exist, to carry out their direct responsibilities - creative work on the legislative basis, formulation and adoption of the laws that our fellow citizens and our country so await. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u45	The statement from the faction "Our Ukraine" is given by the national deputy Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich. A national deputy, Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u46	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In this polyphony of voices that are now heard in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, you can find and tragic, you can find and comedy, you can find yesterday and tomorrow. But I am convinced that every day more and more national MPs are worrying about one thing: we are, indeed, witnessing how our Ukraine leaps slowly to unpredictability, to unpredictability, to disorder and to lawlessness. And that is why our hearts and the positions of the political forces that we represent cannot be calm. Leonid Makarovich! You've initiated a debate about what the country should be -- or whether it's a presidential or a parliamentary one, but today, of course, the choice is already on a different plane: are we able to keep the country in democratic development by our own forces, by the democratic parliamentary corps, or are we slowly choosing a political regime? I am convinced that today there is a choice between dictatorship and democracy in Ukraine. So once again, I want to emphasize to those who today don't understand that authorities and political bankruptcy are trying to make a branch of certain oligarchic structures, to make a puppet parliament that is willing to accept any political adventures. That is why we must understand, honourable national MPs, regardless of our political sympathy, today: we are destroyed by several things in the walls of Parliament, as an institution. The first is our political integrity. The second is the demeanor of human dignity, the demeanor of the political dignity of the people's deputies. We are trying to govern, determine our conduct in certain political situations. We inadvertently, honourable national deputies, become passive or active hostages of the crisis that is unfolding in Ukraine. So in these circumstances, the faction "Our Ukraine" on the other hand refers to each of the national MPs present in this room: we need to make a democratic plan to overcome the crisis in Ukraine and to accept it in the walls of parliament. It could be made up of three key points. The first is the key and the main one. Dear friends, distinguished national MPs! Let's make sure that without external pressure in these four walls we have to decide on the formation of a democratic majority that is hurting Ukraine, to stop the actions of the President's Administration, which until today has blocked the structure of the Parliament of the Supreme Council. Believe in yourself, and you will see that the walls of this House have the greatest democratic potential in the last 11 years, and we are able to do so. The second is logical and essential. Immediately proceed to form a coalition government that would have the harmonious support of the Ukrainian Parliament. That's what the president's talking about. Dear friends! What else must we say to make this happen? Third. Political guarantees, respectable friends, agreement on the actions of most parliaments, the government, the President of Ukraine should be a really tripartite agreement on joint action. These are the three little steps we need to take, Your Honor, we just don't have another. The other is vanity and a shift away from solving problems. So everything else undermines people’s justice and faith in the future. With this in mind, I would like to address personally the leaders of some of the political forces present in this room. Dear Raiso Vasilovno and Bogdan Volodymyrovich! You know very well that in our country, business is allowed and successful businessmen are identified, not in the competition market, but elsewhere. Where does it guarantee that once before you, as business representatives, you will not enter the UBOP office, the UBOP, the DPO, the Berkut, the Titan, Hydra, the taxpayer or any other structure? Keep in mind that your home is not far away, even if it is far away — sometimes the extreme home is the first. Sergey Leonidovich, Igor Fedorovich! You have experience in both government and industry. You know how to run politics and business in the developed countries of the world. Our question to you is, Why do you prefer the political powers that shape feudal rules in Ukraine? Catherine Timofievno, Mikhail Vasilovich! You declare your desire to make a Ukrainian peasant your master. Will you continue to play on one team with the political forces that the earth needs only for profit? Do not be like the characters of the Kaidash family. Believe me, when the pear is dry, it'll be late. Dear Stephen Bogdanovich! I can't believe that as a professional lawyer, you can't stop being insulted by what's going on in your eyes. I know that you can fight not only the consequences of lawlessness but also the root causes. Dear Valery Pavlovich! You remember, too, when your party was appointed as the governing and directing force of Ukrainian society. Are you not sorry to dedicate your life to hunting a mosquito with a hammer today? Julius Volodymyrno, Alexandre Alexandrovich! We can and must fight together for democracy in this country. I'd like to speak to Peter Mikolaiovich separately. You are a man of great political experience, and you know the value of trust in politics. We have different political views, but today we must be united by the fate of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I am convinced that, like this time, the authorities will ignore the political results of the elections and will be deaf to the electorate, the future of our country will not be resolved in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament and without the participation of the people's deputies. So let us be wise, and let us not allow it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Let's finish with the speeches and then the line. The statement from the faction "Agrarians of Ukraine" is given to the National Deputy of Vaszczuk to Catherine Timofievni. With motive? Please, for reasons, if you insist. Turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy, Matvienka, a faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Catherine Timothy, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u48	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm addressing you before the faction leaders. I asked you if there was going to be a broadcast, and do you know that it's going to stop? I'm informing you that the broadcast's stopped, it's not there. Simonek's speech was not broadcast, the performance by Yashchenka was broadcast, and I'm very sorry that the performance by Vashchuk will not be broadcast at this time either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u49	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! I was informed that the broadcast was complete. Now I'm going to have to take care of them. Please, Catherine Timothy, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs, guests! Parliamentary holidays for most of us, especially for interned deputies, have become a period of deep reflection, analysis, and meditation. The difficult election races of 2002, the uncomplicated start of our newly elected Supreme Council, caused mature radical changes in the political system of the state to take a closer look at the history of our eleven - year independent life. What are the conclusions? First and foremost, we've become much wiser, cutting down not only the windows in Europe and the world, but also the wood. We stopped at the right time, realizing that no "foreigner" would help us until we rolled up our sleeves and started not only working hard but also defending ourselves, defending our dignity and our state. [[That's what we've always been good at.]] We are a self-sufficient and capable nation capable of its own way, its place in the world of civilization. The other one. Even though you and I are very different, we are gradually having a difficult time, but we are always on the same page. And that's the main thing. Let's take a look around us: an absolute majority of us are already speaking and thinking in Ukrainian, which means the necessary critical mass of national patriotism is growing. We're going to analyze our election programs. They are almost the same in general, in the need to improve the lives of the people. Third. Despite numerous setbacks, scandals, insults, our Ukrainian people still continue to trust that democratic institution called the Ukrainian Parliament. The last election and our presence here is this testimony. From my nine - year - old MP experience, I will say that we now have a good composition of the Supreme Council, but that is not enough. We must become the strongest Supreme Council, the strongest parliament in the new history of Ukraine, and we have that chance. Parliament will be strong only if it is responsible. Agrarians are confident that this MP Corps is ready to assume full responsibility not only for the laws passed but also for the executive branch of authority that will implement them. The President's message is an open road to a European model of political order. And right behind us with you. In fact, no one will interfere with us and this is confirmed today in the speech of the Head of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Mikhailovich Lithuania. We need to unite our efforts by creating a powerful constitutional one, and I want to stress this, the constitutional majority, and the reform of the political system in Ukraine. These changes require both the economy and the social sphere, and in general all of our social life. We already have a good example of uniting the efforts of the parliamentary majority and the government, and the upheavals were for the better, all of which can be confirmed. Today, this is not the case with the majority and so much cooperation. And what do we have? Reforms have slowed down, mainstreaming the economy, closing down a number of social programs, increasing frustration, and not optimism in the countryside. Because today’s price policy is unsurpassed, people are outraged by the paralysis of social problems, social programs for rural construction. There are virtually no budget articles on Ukraine’s agricultural sector. The "Agrarians of Ukraine" faction invites all deputies to unite and create a constitutional majority. Many factions and MPs are already working in this direction. And it's not very important who is the initiator of this majority, it's important that it be created by constructively configured deputies, and most importantly, we have to do it now. In a few months, there will be other events, another situation, four years of our parliament we cannot lose because Ukraine will lose. Agrarian MPs welcome all of you, dear colleagues, with the start of your plenary work, we wish you all courage and wisdom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u52	A statement from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine is given to National Deputy Karpov Alexandr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u53	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear friends! Following the direction of the Coordinating Council of the Nine factions and Groups, I have the honour to publish our address to the Ukrainian National Deputies. "Dear colleagues! With the announcement of the President of Ukraine's address to the Ukrainian people on 24 August this year, the fundamental approaches to political reform in Ukraine open up in principle new opportunities for systematic political and socio-economic transformations in our society. The need for such transformations, in particular with regard to the transition to the parliamentary presidential form of government, elections to the Supreme Council on a proportionate basis, the formation of a coalition government, the introduction of systemic changes to the Constitution, has been declared by virtually a majority of the political parties represented in Parliament and the national deputies elected in the majority districts. Thus, within the Supreme Council itself, the relationship of branches of government has formed a conducive prerequisite for uniting efforts with a view to resolving these and other pressing issues that confront the political system in general and the national deputies in particular. The practical implementation of these tasks can contribute to the creation of a system of truly politically responsible authorities in Ukraine. As a result, nine MP factions and groups have already declared their intentions to join the parliamentary majority and have set up a coordinating board to develop joint approaches for its creation and organization, to conduct appropriate consultations and negotiations with other MPs and groups, non-fractional national deputies. In doing so, we have been guided by the fact that the parliamentary majority cannot be summed up to a purely arithmetical concept, and according to European and world democratic standards, the aim is to form a central subject of the political structure of Parliament, capable of taking responsibility for making decisions, effective work both by the legislative body itself and by the majority of the coalition government. The status, rights, powers and responsibilities of both the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority and opposition must be clearly formulated and established by law. Without such a normalization of the political structure of Parliament, without the rules of the game, the activities of the single legislative and highest representative body, which the Supreme Council is, cannot be either stable or predictable or understandable to our electorates. Therefore, to our firm conviction, work on preparing and developing approaches to the formation of the parliamentary majority, its legislative consolidation and the creation of legal bases, conditions and guarantees for the activities of the opposition, the production of the concept of political reform must go both transparently and openly, and urgently. So we invite the MPs and the Supreme Council groups, all the national deputies, to this important and extremely responsible work. We now have a real opportunity to implement our political declarations and intentions for further reforming Ukrainian society, to take practical steps to implement the principles of a solidarity political responsibility towards our people. Let the first common steps on this path be not to create a permanent parliamentary majority, to form a coalition government, to make systematic changes to the Basic Law of our State." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-03-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! The list of speakers, as well as the time for presentations, is exhausted. Regarding our further work. The calendar of the second session of the Supreme Council, which you are given today, is scheduled to work on committees, factions and groups by the end of the week, and we will begin our plenary work on September 10th, Government Day in the Supreme Council. Information will be provided on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the strategy for overcoming poverty in Ukraine and on the implementation of the state-owned airline on the implementation of Ukraine's laws on the natural and cultural heritage fund and on the protection of the cultural heritage and compliance by officials with the requirements of the current legislation regarding the National Hortician Reserve and other historical and cultural commandments of the Icks and objects of the natural-indicative fund. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
