ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our second session of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like you to put your seats on the floor, please. I want to remind you that you have to check in at the tables first, pick up the materials, and then register in the hall. [[Well, it's the first day, and we're just getting to know some procedural points.]] Only such double registration allows us to determine the presence of national deputies in the conference room. Please prepare your cards. Please register. At 16 o’clock, 317 national deputies are registered for 2 minutes. We continue our work according to the order of the day. At the conclusion of the discussion on the formation and registration of MP factions and groups, I'll give you this information. We were immediately informed from the Supreme Council's Apparatus that the lists of the factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the election block of Yulia Timoshenko, the block of Viktor Yuschenka "Our Ukraine", the SDPU. I want to remind you once again that it takes time to process these materials, and to announce the results of the registration of MP factions and groups will only be possible tomorrow morning if all the materials are filed today. Tomorrow we will be able to work fully, in accordance with the Rules, warning all rights of MP factions and groups. We're continuing our work. We will begin discussions on the report of the Preparatory MP Group on proposals for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call for work. The word is given to the head of the Preparatory Group of Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich. Please. Please state 15 minutes for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u2	Head of the Preparatory Group. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear guests of the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call! I have the honour, on behalf of the Preparatory MP Group, of preparing proposals for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call to inform us of the work we have done. In all, 51 Ukrainian national deputies were delegated to the Preparatory MPs, most of whom were members of the previous vocation. 29 members of the preparatory group were represented by national deputies elected in one-maned districts in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in all 24 areas, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. The delegations of the Donetské and Dnipropetrovsk oblasts, in accordance with the position on the Preparatory MP group, authorized two national deputies, the rest of the administrative and territorial units, one national defence. The interests of the political parties and the electoral blocs of the political parties that have overcome the four-percent barrier in the election of Ukraine's national MPs on March 31, 2002, in the multi-mandatory national constituency, stand in the ranks of the Preparatory Group of the 22 National Deputies, including the seven-off political party block "Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", six-off of the Communist Party of Ukraine, three-way from the election bloc of political parties "For the One Ukraine!"...two-by-two from the election bloc of the political parties "The Electoral Block of Yulia Timoshenko", from the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] On April 22, the Preparatory Group began its work and, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, will cease its activities with the establishment of committees of the Supreme Council. [[Part Three of Article 2.2.3]] During the first two meetings of the Preparatory Deputy Group, held under the chairmanship of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the previous vocation of Plju Ivan Stepanovich was formed to direct the group and its structure. The Preparatory Group is headed by the National Deputy of Ukraine Martinyuk, the Deputy National Deputy of Ukraine Musiyak Viktor Lavrentiovich and the National Deputy of Ukraine, Konovluka Valerija Ilić, the Secretary of the Preparatory Group, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. [[The Communist Party of Ukraine]] [[The election block of the political parties "Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine"]] [[Donetsk Region]] [[Hersonian Region]] Three subgroups were formed to prepare specific proposals and to deal with them in general meetings of the entire Preparatory Group. The first subgroup is the opening, the Rules, the formation of working bodies, the Bureau, the Counting Commission, the organization of work, the order of the day and the presentation of the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The coordinator of the subgroup is the national deputy of Ukraine, Georgi Korniyovich. [[The Communist Party of Ukraine]] The second subgroup is the election of the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the formation of parliamentary factions and committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Co-ordinator is National Deputy of Ukraine Karpov Alexander Mikolayovich. [[The election block of the political parties "For Ukraine's One!"]] And the third working group of the General Preparatory Group is on ensuring the conditions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its organs and the exercise of parliamentary powers, status and socio-economic security for the activities of the people's deputies. The co-ordinator of this sub-group is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Konovaluk Valerius Ilchi. [[Donetsk Region]] The high professional level of Ukrainian national deputies to the Preparatory Deputies Group, the good organization of its members, who were delegated by political parties and political party constituencies, the presence of a large group of national deputies with experience in the Supreme Council of previous calls contributed to the speedy resolution of the preparatory parliamentary task force. Already on April 29, proposals were approved on all matters related to the formation of an oath and the organization of the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am pleased to report to you, distinguished national MPs, that the work of the group and the subgroup was carried out in a constructive manner, in a business atmosphere. Of course, it did not take time without debates and verbal battalions, displays of emotion, but it was always possible to find a solution, most of which was made unanimously or almost by consensus. [[And that's natural, given the composition of our MP Corps, and then the Preparatory MP Group, which represents, as I've already noted, all the political forces of today's Supreme Council.]] All members of the Preparatory Group have shown a high level of activity and a desire for mutual understanding. It should be noted that in considering the issues and decisions taken, the Preparatory Group has consistently guided the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the better, the stricter consideration of each of the proposed documents. The preparatory group was open - minded. In addition to the members of the group, other members of the group participated in its meetings and sub-groups, who expressed their wishes, the permanent representatives of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, the Secretary of State of the Cabinet of Ministers, other officials and experts of the respective departments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our work was widely publicized. Media representatives were able to monitor events throughout all the general meetings of the Preparatory Group, and press conferences were held constantly for journalists. According to the task of the Preparatory Group, her head held a May 7 meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the previous convening and leaders of political parties and electoral blocs of political parties, which overcame the four - percent barrier in the election of a multi-mandatory national constituency. After the first meeting, another meeting was held, at which, on May 10, all six party leaders and constituencies participated — Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich, Simonenko Petr Mikolajovich, Litwin Vladimir Mikhajlovich, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrnna, Moroz Alexander Alexander and Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich. As a result of lengthy but constructive discussions, the leaders of the parties and the constituencies addressed the Preparatory Deputies Group with proposals for changes to the following draft documents: on the formation of the Presidency of the session, on the modalities for the opening and holding of the first session before the election of the Bureau of the session, on the formation and registration of the parliamentary factions and groups, on the order of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the period before the election of the Committees, on the procedure for the presentation of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, on the list and functional orientation of the Committees of the Supreme Council, on the manner in which the candidates were elected as Head, First Deputy and Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the placement of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the session. At the Preparatory Group meeting held yesterday, May 13, all the suggestions and recommendations made by party leaders and party constituencies were fully considered and made. To our conviction, meetings with leaders of political parties and electoral blocs of political parties have provided an opportunity to reconcile a number of principled positions that have had a positive impact on our work, as these first few hours of meeting the newly elected composition of the higher legislative body of the state illustrate. It would be heartwarming to wish for the same constructive and fruitful work and for the rest of the unforgivable parliamentary peripeties. The preparatory parliamentary group, among others, has also considered the whole range of issues related to organizational and technical provisions for the session, the creation of normal conditions for the work of national deputies and the residence of foreign nationals. These are complex questions, they have not yet been fully resolved, especially for objective reasons, and our group will continue to work on them. This is particularly true of the problems of financing expenditure for the implementation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Last December, parliament was underfunded for nearly 25 million dollars. This year, the trend towards funding cuts is increasing. Over 8 million dollars have been underfunded in four months, provided that the allocation is almost double the budget allocated under article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies. This funding situation makes it impossible to prepare for the work of the new assembly. In particular, it is a matter of concern to the state of establishment of the number foundation of the hotel "Ukraine", the resolution of a series of measures from the material and technical provision of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this connection, the April 29th parliamentary group addressed a letter to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kinaha. Anatoly Kirilovich has a strong parliamentary background, he is well - aware of the financial problems of parliament, so we hope for an operational and, above all, positive solution to the problems that have been raised in this letter. The Preparatory Group had yet to face another problem, namely the implementation of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine on the date of the opening of the new session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to members of the previous call by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the first rank of State official. In our view, we have managed to solve this problem to some extent, and you have been informed today that the Head of the Supreme Council has assigned the first rank of civil servant not only to the third vocation but also to all previous vocations that did not have that rank. Serious difficulties have also arisen with regard to the placement of national deputies in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. This is related to the fact that the most numerous factions of "For the One Ukraine!" and "Our Ukraine," as well as the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine until the last moment, before the opening of the plenary session, did not submit any indicative lists of their factions. [[united]] Despite some difficulties and problems, the Preparatory Group made all the necessary decisions regarding the organization of the beginning of Ukrainian Parliament’s fourth call. They have found their reflection in the draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, about which the Ukrainian National Deputies - members of the Preparatory Group will report to you, and some of them have already reported, to make appropriate decisions. Clearly, these are just our proposals for the ninth part of the people’s choice. Only the Supreme Council of Ukraine and only the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. you, by a majority of the constitutional composition, have the authority to make the final decision. However, the productive work of the members of the Preparatory Deputies Group, the consistency of our proposals with the leaders of political parties and the electoral blocs of political parties, i.e. in fact with the leaders of the factions of the Supreme Council, gives reason to expect operational, qualified decisions to be taken by the national MPs before they directly approach legislative action. By completing the report on the work of the Preparatory Deputies Group, let me express our sincere gratitude to all the national deputies who have joined our group as well as to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the third call and the staff of the Supreme Council for actively contributing to the preparation and the work of the Supreme Council. We are grateful to the leaders of the political parties, the constituencies of the political parties, who have made much use of the organized start of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was elected on March 31, 2002. Our warm words of thanks are also addressed to members of the media, who are quite broad and who have objectively explained the process of preparing for the opening of the first session of the newly elected parliament. In such a way it is comprehensive and qualified to illuminate this process during all the following years of the fourth call. Dear colleagues! The activities of the Preparatory Group have demonstrated that, despite all differences in attitudes, political positions, and other circumstances, it is good will to reach agreed solutions on the most important issues in the interests of our homeland and its people. This gives us good reason to expect that, contrary to all predictions and complaints, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be effective, create good and reliable laws in the name and for the benefit of our citizens, whose credentials we are in the highest legislative body of the state. Give us, below, the strength and inspiration to justify our expressed trust to be worthy of our high mission of saving Ukraine, of bringing our society on the path of social economic progress, of ensuring prosperity, of the well-being of our fellow countrymen, of guaranteeing in the near future a happy fate for every Ukrainian family! [[Applause]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u3	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, this is our first performance of 15 minutes, and I have to tell you that it's extremely difficult to report, the noise in the room. You can't hear yourself, but noise is a hindrance, so please discuss the matter, if it's important, somewhere in the towers. If you have any questions about the reporter, please log in. Raise your hand, please, if you have any questions. You don't? Thank you, we're taking a report to the public. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Let us consider the next question. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the organization of the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Georgiy Korniyovich, reports on this issue. You have the material, please pay attention. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u4	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! You are invited by the Preparatory Deputies Group to draft a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call on the organization of the work of its first session. [[These are pages 14-16 of the materials that we are handed over to us.]] It foresees that the Supreme Council will work in plenary session mode to elect the organs of the Supreme Council and decide the priorities and other issues that will be provided for in the agenda, which should be confirmed later. It is meant that plenary meetings will be held from Tuesday to Friday, including morning meetings from 10 to 14 p.m., evenings from 16 to 18 p.m., except Friday, when morning meetings are held. Of course, if it is necessary for the Supreme Council to decide, additional technological breaks may be announced, as it were, to discuss and agree on issues and positions in the MP factions and groups. Once again, I would like to remind you that it is suggested that the formation of MP factions and groups takes place in an extracurricular time. Weeks from 27 to 31 May are proposed to be assigned to the work of national deputies in committees and parliamentary factions, and week from 24 to 28 June for the work of national deputies in the constituencies. [[But if we choose to run the Supreme Council and the composition of the committees by then,]] The government's day of this session is scheduled to be held twice: on the second Tuesday of June, provided the Supreme Council authorities have been elected so far and the issues discussed have been approved; and on the second Tuesday of July. [[this is the 11th number]] [[This is the 9th number.]] Parliamentary hearings on budgetary policy for 2003 should be held on June 4. This is necessary to meet the constitutional requirements for the budgetary process. To complete the first session of the Supreme Council, the fourth call is proposed on July 12th, a week earlier than it would have been. This is caused by the urgent need to reconstruct the automated information system of the Council until the beginning of the next, second, session of the Supreme Council, which, under article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is due to begin on the first Tuesday of September of this year, which is September 3, which takes some time. The preparatory parliamentary group requests that you support these proposals and accept from the question the decision that you have in mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u5	Georgi Korniyovich, have you finished?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u7	Please ask questions. Raise your hand if you have any questions. None. Thank you. On this issue we have a draft regulation on the organization of the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call: proposals by the Preparatory Group on the organization of the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve. Materials are added. Who is to take such a decision, please vote. Please enable the system. "For" - 334. Thank you. The next question is how the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be discussed. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Kručkov Georgi Korniyovich. Where are you? Where did you go? We'd be standing by now. Thank you. I was just surprised. I don't think there's any Georgi Korniovich, so who's to report? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! The question that has to be reported is quite difficult. The proposals made by the preparatory group for the presentation of the first session were designed to take account of the current legislation, such as the Act on the Order of Disclosure of the Activities of State Authorities and Local Self - Administration Authorities by the Media, and the requirements of article 1.0. 4 The Rules of the Supreme Council. It also considered the need to ensure that citizens of Ukraine were fully informed, as required by the Constitution of the State, about the activities of the country's only legislative body. We could not ignore the urgent demands of the electorate during the elections on the need for a thorough improvement in the visibility of the Supreme Council. I would like to point out in particular that, unlike the situation in which these issues were discussed in the Preparatory Group of the Supreme Council last time, this time there were no significant differences among the members of the preparatory group. There was one nuance that I'm going to talk about separately. In accordance with the law that I mentioned, in direct air on UT-1 and the first channel of the Ukrainian Radio, there is a mandatory broadcast of the opening of the first session of the Supreme Council, the ceremony of the inauguration by the national deputies of the oath, a speech by the President of Ukraine with a letter to the Supreme Council. Related tasks are given to the National Television and Radio Council for the placement of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine. In discussing this issue at yesterday’s Preparatory Group meeting, a warning, concern was expressed: Will television broadcasts and the radio opening of the session be limited only by declaring the oldest of the age-old national deputies of the session open? The project, as you can see, is broadcast on UT-1 and UT-2 channels in the evening of the 30-minute information program "The Supreme Council Journal" with a repeat of its next day, broadcasts on UT-1 channels weekly live on 40 minute thematic broadcasts with representatives of MPs, groups and non-faction deputies, as well as live broadcasts of 45 minute weekly thematic broadcasts, also with the participation of factions, groups and non-factional MPs. [[Saturday]] The preparatory group discussed the participation of representatives of MPs and groups in radio programmes. The vast majority of members of the group said that factions and groups should participate in programs on a proportional basis. That was actually the only question that was discussed. There is an appropriate experience of this in the Supreme Council. The most difficult question is probably the question envisaged in paragraph 4 of the draft regulation, about direct broadcasting of the Supreme Council plenary meetings on the first channel of the National Radio Company and on the live broadcast network. Such decisions have also been approved at sessions of the Supreme Council of previous appeals, but they have not been implemented for some time. This was taken into account by the members of the Preparatory Deputy Group, which was highlighted, but was expressed by the members of the preparatory group for this very draft decision. The seat of the Parliamentary newspaper Golos Ukrainiana has been designated to highlight the activities of the Supreme Council, parliamentary factions and groups, non-fractional deputies and actions carried out by the Supreme Council. The Governing Body of the Supreme Council is entrusted with the task of ensuring that appropriate agreements are made with state and other broadcasters to inform domestic and foreign media about the work of the session and the distribution of relevant materials. I can generally say that the proposals made in general are in line with the wishes expressed by the people's deputies of the previous vocation, as well as with the numerous petitions made by citizens, during the pre-election meetings. [[and during their consideration, the preparatory group took into account the draft decision made by the People's Deputies Simonenko and Mishur]] There are two problems that create obstacles to the implementation of the proposals. The first is the financing of additional costs not foreseen by the state budget. The question is very serious and difficult, but it must be decided if we are to realize the will of the deputies and the vast majority of our electorate. Thus, according to Adam Ivanovich, the state did not give the Supreme Council 25 million dollars last year. And the second is the position of executive power and presidential structures. In this regard, I would like to say something, dear colleagues. Today, in an interview with the Ukrainian radio, the head of the Derjkominform, reverend Ivan Sergiyovich Zhizh, stated that the broadcast of plenary sessions on the radio could not be spoken of. [[first channel]] In this regard, I would like to invite you, your distinguished colleagues, to take a few minutes to quote from John Sergiyovich's speech at a meeting of the High Council on the third occasion, on the same issue, on May 12, 1998. Then Ivan Sergiyovich spoke, he said, as a member of the preparatory group who unfortunately failed to stand up for direct broadcasting of sessions at least the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Did I remind you that working openly is a constitutional requirement, the responsibility of the Supreme Council under the Constitution, stressing that only direct broadcasts of meetings can be the most objective? Ivan Stepanovich concluded his speech with words that he once said to Socrates, "Tell me to see you." "I want," said the speaker, "to speak to the Supreme Council and the people have seen it." As we can see, now in the rank of executive official, Ivan Sergiyovich has changed his position by turning 180 degrees. You could say, "the cat of the seat determines the point of view." [[Applause]] To avoid direct broadcasting of meetings of the Supreme Council, to limit the ability of Ukrainian citizens to receive objective information about its activities without stopping before the violation of the Constitution, such as the goal and position of government and presidential authority. When we adopt a decision from a given question, we should consider the situation. And last but not least, dear colleagues. Already today, before the meeting, I was familiar with the draft Supreme Council ruling on this issue, introduced by the People's Deputy Justice. It basically matches the project I reported, but there are some differences. Perhaps the most plausible thing is that Deputy Pravdenko proposes that the daily live broadcast of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council be broadcast on the second channel of the National Television Company. Other questions can be agreed. I made a proposal to take the basis of a draft decision made by the Preparatory MP, and on final acceptance, to take into account the acceptable points set out in the draft rulings of the People's Deputies of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u9	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. There's a question, I see. Please sign in. Please turn on the entry. He signed up for the 31st National MP. Please fill out the list. Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u10	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. Dear George Korniyovich! I've even been with you in one subgroup, but I still have a question. Perhaps it is not just for you. Now, we're proposing a direct broadcast of the High Council plenary meetings on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 to 18 hours, and Wednesdays and Fridays from 10 to 14 hours. This is exactly the right thing to do, obviously, for society to do, and that's what it's waiting for. But you've just told an interesting story about a former representative of Chile, who makes it clear that the executive power, unlike society, is not ready to provide this direct broadcast. On the other hand, we have in the draft decree that it should be placed on the Head of the Supreme Council and before the Head is elected to the Presidency of the First Session of the Supreme Council. [[And so, and the question of broadcasting]] Tomorrow our work will start again, and there will be no direct broadcast. What do you think our actions should be? Not just yours, the reporting deputy, but all of us, including the Bureau?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u11	Dear colleague Viacheslav! You know, we've already made these decisions and we've put control of the Chief of the Supreme Council, we've ignored them, we've ignored them, and we haven't found any means of influence. The only tool is to make changes to the Constitution and to establish real constitutional control over the work of the executive branch. And then these questions will be settled normally. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u12	Deputy Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u13	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter! A few years ago, I opposed everything that was happening in the Supreme Council to Ukrainian society. However, the situation has changed dramatically, and that vacuum, the silence around the Supreme Council, gives birth to incredible myths. That's why me and my colleagues in "Our Ukraine" are very supportive of this draft decision. Its acceptance, in effect, legalizes and makes the work of the Supreme Council more open to the public. How do you feel about that? Is it appropriate, for example, to fill the entire first channel of the National Radio from 10 to 18 hours with a lunch break with some very often uninteresting things happening in the Supreme Council? This is work on the law. Because of this, I think it would probably be much better if the Ukrainian radio that it is today were to illuminate the work of the Supreme Council. [[And it's closed with a lot of beautiful new programs.]] And one last question. If we accept this decision, do we have the importance of implementing it? This has happened more than once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u14	The only thing that matters is the desire of the authorities to be open to the people and show what the Supreme Council does, what the Cabinet of Ministers does, what the President's Administration does. [[all its branches]] I'm going to say that the Cabinet of Ministers is now looking at several orders better than the Supreme Council. Only one thing is needed here is political will, desire. I'm afraid I don't see it yet. And I said about the weights, answering my colleague Viacheslav Kirilenko’s questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u15	Deputy Masenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u16	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear George Korniyovich! Dear fellow MPs! I would like to repeat the words that Georgi Korniyovich said in his speech: "The cat of the seat determines the point of view." This proved exactly what Yavorowski said. Until he was sitting in the Supreme Council Hall, he was running an authorship program. On the radio, you could hear Yavorowski’s authorship. And now that he's gone into the wall of the Supreme Council, you can see where he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u17	Hey, buddy! Your question! This is not a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u18	That's what I'm getting at. Now that even Yavorowski is broadcasting our meetings, I think we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u19	It's like that branch of yours, you know? Questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u20	But I'm asking questions. We need Georgi Korniyovich to urge all the deputies to vote this position as a constitutional norm and to make changes to the Constitution so that the work of the Supreme Council can be broadcast. And you can see that even the forces that were against it are now supporting that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u21	I'm very supportive of that. We must adopt such a decree by more than 300 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u22	Thank you. He's in charge. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u23	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The MP's faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear George Korniyovich! Dear National Deputies! Our faction comes from the fact that perhaps the Supreme Council of the Fourth Council will provide publicity for its people, who have sent us here to serve him. We have no master other than our people, and according to article 1 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies, we are authorized to represent him. How can our people know what we are doing, and how can we report to him when we are cast into a trap by executive authority in the hands of Cuchma, the government, and today, the Chis? That is why we advocate full publicity. The people need to hear what their representatives are doing. But, Georgi Korniyovich, you have in paragraph 3 of the draft decree that the broadcast still needs to be done on a proportional basis. Give me an answer as you imagine a proportional basis for freedom of speech. One faction is entitled to seven words, ours, the smallest, just one word, and if it were even smaller, what would it be, half a word or three letters? For example, will twenty deputies go to the television station or one MP? Freedom of speech is the same for all, and all deputies are equal. Each faction has its own position - whether it's in favour or against. So I think there should be a principle here, not proportionality, but the principle of equality of the rights of all factions. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u24	Dear colleague! I have already reported that this issue was the subject of discussion, and there was no discussion on other issues. And the vast majority of the members of the preparatory group expressed themselves for a proportional approach. I think it's a proportional approach that ensures equality, but the rights and possibilities of not factions, but the people's deputies. And if the faction is large, it's entitled to more time, because it's a right, not a faction, but the right of the people's deputies. And we're 450 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u25	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. All, the questions have come to an end. I thank you for the report and for the answers, and for one trailer. As chairman, I have the right to do so. For some of the MPs who just came to parliament, it might be a little strange when I tried to talk to Alexander Mikolayovich there, but I have a right as chairman, when the MP is a little bit off the subject, to say to him, "Ask me a question." I don't think he's offended me. Thank you. We have, as honourable colleagues, an alternative draft of our fellow member of the Justice Department's ruling in the hall, he has the right to act as a co-reporter. Please, Sergey Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u26	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Your Honor! Dear colleagues! With all due respect to the work of the Preparatory MP, I am very sorry that none of the Journalists who were there were apparently invited to participate in the preparation of this draft decision. I can see that this was clearly not done by journalists. So let's say how do you tell television sets and radiators to do the arithmetic of our internal proportion? [[paragraph 3 of the draft regulation, which was reported by Georgi Korniyovich]] Where do we get journalists? How do you tell the Voice of Ukraine to count the ratios, the number of factions and so on? Why should we, journalists, excuse us for doing this? This is none of our business. Besides, what am I supposed to do as an editor of the Voice of Ukraine with a previous ruling that has not been annulled, which is fair, and which gives quotas for one page to factions and committees? And the faction that has a numerical advantage, it's sorry, and it controls more committees, and it has a higher quota, especially in the Voice of Ukraine. Similarly, it is likely that radio and television will take place, for the committees have their rights. And if we start counting proportionally, we're going to take these minutes before each transmission? [[The 119 deputies, there's 70, there's 30, and so on.]] Who's going to do this -- professional TV journalists, radio journalists? I'm sorry. Why do we have to do this? We're not doing this! The deputies of the fourth vocation will not do so with all due respect for their body. Besides, I'm telling you, in the Voice of Ukraine, you own the entire area because you're the founders of the newspaper! But here the draft regulation does not define how much -- from eight pages, from sixteen, from twelve, that is, what area do we divide? All of it? And make a newspaper a newsletter? Or half the territory? There's no basis for that. How can we measure proportionality? So what I'm saying is that you have the entire area. What you decide about the Voice of Ukraine is a separate conversation. Whatever you decide, we'll do. But let's say what's the basis of proportionality-- one strip, two, three per day, per week, per month. We need to find and lay down some arithmetic principles. But of course, I stand for the position that we should reject political pettyness, we should reject the desire to regulate and control everything and everything, we should reject the desire to involve journalists in this petty arithmetic, because of us the press only laughs and does the right thing. We should propose the principle of representation and clearly write it out. Besides, it's about a newspaper that belongs to you. How can we today be qualified to implement this decision if instead of the 2 million 700,000 dollars that we were to receive from the Supreme Council on this day starting on January 1, we only received 500,000 dollars? The paper's barely reaching, we don't have any more money on paper. So we're going to execute any decision, especially with regard to the Voice of Ukraine, but the determination is, excuse me, materially secured, because the paper is not taken out of the air. So I allowed myself, along with my colleague Turkinov, to propose a draft decision that envisions the principle of representation. That's the first one. The other one. In the paragraph concerning the newspaper edition of the Supreme Council, "The Voice of Ukraine", leave everything as it is: "to secure operational lighting." And so on. But the following are the words: "corresponding to the budget allocated to the newspaper Voice of Ukraine for the performance of these tasks." You yourself realize that without material security, you can't execute any decision. In addition, there is still an earlier decree in 1999, which states that we are a newspaper publisher and that the Governing Council should be concerned about the financial and material and technical provision of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. I want her to remember her assignment and worry about it. I ask you to vote in favour of this draft decision as a more thoughtful project and, sorry for the immodestness, more professional. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u27	Thank you for your modesty. I beg you, Sergey Makarovich, the question is to you as a co-conspirator. I can see the hands. Please turn on the system. Hands up. There were 21 national deputies. Please explain. Buiko. About three minutes, please stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u28	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Communist Party of Ukraine. The issue of publicizing the work of the Supreme Council is not new to us. And I'm surprised to hear the words of the editor of the parliamentary newspaper when he doesn't understand what it means to cover the work of the Supreme Council in proportion. I think it's a special study. And there's probably a point to look at the composition of the drafting board to see if it's capable of doing this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u29	Forcing something to do with this approach is a very simple and completely understandable trend. Even 15-20 years ago, they wrote the same thing: provide, execute, do. But at that time, there was an automatic provision of material means of execution. Then it could be done. How do you do "on a proportional basis"? My inner, if you want, journalistic belief that you can't do that, you can't play with freedom of speech like that! Freedom is the same for each individual MP, for each citizen and for each faction. I'm sure my colleagues won't. You can make it do the Voice of Ukraine. But there are lots of other editions, there are radios, there are televisions. They will not do this, nor will they.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u30	Solomonine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u31	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Dear Sergey Makarovich! We've talked to you about this a number of times. As a former deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, I have received a comprehensive response from you in due course, which has quotas for each committee, and I have tried to use these quotas. What happened? And it happened that my committee was able to use only one third of the quotas and I was able to use it as a national deputy, and as an alternate committee head, they didn't give any explanation as to why any of the articles weren't printed. And finally. I was very surprised when, instead of a fundamental article on pension reform prepared by our committee and edited by the Voice of Ukraine, an article by the reverend Igor Ostas, who specializes primarily in abroad, appeared. Conclusion. The Supreme Council will force you to do what is right, and you should not boast about your special status as journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u32	Dear colleague! You have a sin to complain about. You are one of the most active authors of the articles on the pages of "The Voice of Ukraine" compared to, say, other deputies. This also applies to members of your faction. You've always had enough space on the pages of "The Voice of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u33	Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u34	We're not talking about "The Voice of Ukraine" right now, we're talking about a general problem -- how to explain our work on radio, television and in print media.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u35	Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u36	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear Sergey Makarovich! As many national MPs know, you've been successfully sharing the area of the Voice of Ukraine for more than ten years, and something about the eleventh or the twelfth year has taught you to do so. You have shared this area for ten years in proportion to the composition of the Supreme Council. That's the first one. The other one. Mr. Turkinov, at the meeting of the political party leadership and the electoral blocs on 8 May, by the way, stated on his initiative that Mr. Pravdenko had made his mandate, had left his post as editor-in-chief of the Voice of Ukraine. How do you understand that? Are you the editor-in-chief of the Voice of Ukraine, or are you not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u37	Thank you. You've put the conversation back on the plane about the Voice of Ukraine. I emphasize that journalists and TV journalists will ignore our "proportional" and they won't do that. [[Trust my experience, because I've been a journalist for 30 years.]] That's the first one. The other one. As for the Voice of Ukraine, we've always counted bands: one strip per month -- factions, one strip per committee. [[or page]] And that balanced everything. We've never done these small calculations -- three words ago, ten, and so on. And that's what this project is all about. As far as I'm concerned, I'm in office. The Parliament of the past has not released me from this office, and this is a question of the Parliament of the present vocation, that is all. Your will, who will be removed from the office of editor and who will be appointed. I'm not acting as an editor, but as the author of the draft decision, please don't confuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u38	Thank you. We're not shooting you now and we're assigning you. Thank you for your answers, Sergey Makarovich. Who wants to come out of the matter under discussion? If they are desirable, please raise your hands. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Is it? I'm sorry, I did, you know, visually. Please sign up. Thank you. Light up, please. They signed up for 19 deputies. There is an offer to take about fifteen minutes to discuss the matter. Please set your time. Dear colleagues, when I or someone else who is in charge of the meeting asks for a hand signal or a record should be made. People's MP Mironenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u39	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 5, Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Please give the floor to the representative of Alexandrovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u40	Ambassador Alexandrovska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u41	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to one serious flaw in this draft regulation. For some reason, this project does not say anything about the possibilities of using the Internet. The use of the Internet hardly requires any financial costs. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today there is information on the work of the Supreme Council on the Internet, but we must complement this project with a separate paragraph: The Office of Computerized Systems of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will ensure the provision of audio and video information on the work of the Supreme Council on the Internet. I believe that this will solve many problems and will not require additional funding. And I think that the question of proportionality should be removed at all. All should have equal access to the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u42	Thank you. Karpov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u43	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Please give the word to the Ukrainian national deputy, member of the faction "For the One Ukraine!" Zarabin Oleg Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u44	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u45	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear Chairman! Deputies! I'd like to touch two questions. The first question is what was discussed here, whether it's a proportional basis or a representation. I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues that the elections were conducted on a mixed basis, and those elected in one-mandom majority districts have the full right to report to their voters on the pages of the newspaper, on television, on the radio, as well as those who are party members and who are selected for lists. So not the principle of representation, but the principle of proportionality is optimally fair to the situation and to the electoral system. And the second question may be rhetorical or decisive. And the draft of the preparatory group on how to explain the work of the session, and the alternative project that we just heard from the author, tells us about the publication on the pages of the body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Voice of Ukraine. But as far as I can tell, and as far as I can remember, there is another body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the magazine Wice. I would like to ask the Presidency, which is now in the Hall: What is the fate of this magazine, why does it not take part in the analysis of what is happening in the Supreme Council? So, Evening magazine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u46	National Deputy Seminouk Valentina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u47	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. Dear fellow national MPs! First of all, I'd like to ask you to support the draft decision put forward by the task force to allow people to listen to the broadcast and the beginning of the session, and in general to our work. Today, even at lunchtime, I met the voters of Kiev. They said that by the first hour of the day, there was a broadcast of the meeting of the Supreme Council, and then there was nothing. And the very interest of people in looking at Parliament’s work tells us that we are obliged to take a decision. The proposals of the Truthmaker are correct, but as an MP who has experience in Parliament's work of two vocations, I think we should take the basis for the first reading of the draft working group. Perhaps the Bureau with the appropriate working group will take into account the proposals made by the Righteous One, but this draft decision should be accepted. And the more people are waiting for it, they're hoping for change, they want to hear our reports, and most importantly, they're interested in how we're going to approve the work force, and how we're going to start working so that we can move faster to solve the issues and the programming tasks that the electorate has put before us when we go to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u48	People's deputy Kuharchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u49	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Matthew's Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u50	Deputy Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u51	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! You and I are now considering one of the most important draft regulations of the Supreme Council regarding the organization of the work of the country's higher legislative body. But he is probably the most important because, above all, this decision will keep us in touch with our electorate. If there's no direct radiation, it won't be there. That's what they're doing, closing our mouths without giving us the possibility of direct radiation from the Supreme Council Hall, the President and his lieutenants. I think today all national MPs should be set up to accept this decision and get it done. We failed in the previous call, although we were members of the Communist faction, and introduced draft regulations for the last two sessions of the Supreme Council. They've accepted it, and it's been entrusted to the Head of the Supreme Council to control their implementation, but as you know, they haven't been executed. Why? The statement was only from the Supreme Council’s management. It's not a financial question, it's not a financial and material question, but the answer is a political question. Therefore, in accepting this decree today, we must give the head of the Supreme Council the authority to implement it fully. The Communist faction will support the draft decision made by the Preparatory MP, but we cannot agree with the principle that someone here wants to impose on us -- the disproportionate principle of the distribution of air time and the newspaper area. We are in favour of implementing the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations on the Proportional Provision of All Information Services to the People's Deputies of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u52	Thank you. National MP Borsztewski Viktor Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u53	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Dnepropetrovska oblast. At all the election meetings, one of the most important questions the voters ask is, "When will we hear you, our chosen ones?" I think that's the main question today. For the work of the Supreme Council to be fruitful, all deputies must unite in order to break the mouth of Parliament. I support the draft decision, and I believe that it is the proportional principle of distribution of materials, lighting of work that is fair and that it will enable each MP to express his or her views, to explain his or her work. I therefore call on all deputies not only to support this draft regulation but to do their utmost to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u54	Thank you. Valery Dmitrovich Mishur. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u55	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that the working group has taken the basis of a draft decision prepared by me and Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko. The thing is, this project has some history. We've worked on the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information on a number of occasions, and it's, you could say, an outcast. In this regard, I wanted to stress this. The point is that the freedom of speech that Sergey Pravdenko was talking about here is not the freedom of journalists to say what they want. I can give you a lot of examples from Western journalism that a journalist has to express a professional point of view, not a certain point of view. [[If we're going to Europe, we're going to Europe, and somehow we're going to Europe.]] We have journalists doing the opposite. And when you have to give 95 percent of the facts and only 5 percent of the comments, you have to do it the other way around. I would like to say that freedom of speech is primarily the responsibility of the authorities to their electorates, the responsibility of journalists to readers, viewers and so on, and proportionality is one of the main principles of democracy. The thing is, democracy is the will of the majority. Of course, it takes the opportunity and minorities to say their word. This proportionality is exactly what these things predict. So I would ask my colleagues to support the project that the preparatory group is doing, because it's also the most full reflection of both the state of freedom of speech and what's going on here in the hall. If he is supported, we need to think about how to implement this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u56	Thank you. National Deputy Taran Viktor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u57	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! At the beginning of each session, we made a decision on how to explain the work of the Supreme Council, and each time this decision was not implemented. It's "deservation" by Kuchma, it's "deservation" by the government. In the meantime, this contrasts dramatically with world practice. For example, when the government in Brazil made it impossible to broadcast Parliament’s work, it cost the president the impeachment. My point is that if the Supreme Council's ruling is not once again implemented, we're friendly (I mean, "For Jedu!"and we shall vote in favour of impeachment. I lead to the fact that the law is good when it works when it is implemented. There is a great danger that the draft decree that we are offered will not be implemented because it does not provide for important influences on executive power and because of so - called proportionality. Why? For example, the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, instead of the 289 words provided by the proportional quota, will give 371 words. Who's going to count these lines, who's going to count those words? What will be the effect on the newspaper if there are 12 words instead of 10 words? If by radio, let's say five minutes instead of five minutes is five minutes? And what would be the penalty for, let's say, 30 seconds longer said, or 40? I mean, it's a theater of absurdity, an absolute theater of absurdity! But there's still the integrity of the artwork, and the editor can't, for the sake of this material, just for the sake of more lines, print nonsense. Give the editor the right to determine the artistic quality of the article and so forth. And in terms of that, the honourable comrades of Bolsheviks that you say the will of the majority is democracy. We've been through this Bolshevism before. You've already learned that during the so-called velvet revolution. Democracy is just the rights of minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u58	Thank you. National Deputy Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u59	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please give the word to Sergey Ivanovich Droguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u60	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u61	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you very much, National Deputy Domansky. It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. My fellow national MPs! Dear Chairman! Today, I have calculated that this is the nineteenth ruling in connection with the broadcast of the meetings of the Supreme Council, which we want to adopt. Eighteen of them were not completely executed. The president and his team didn't even use their ear to do anything about it. What should we do under these conditions? It was proposed to change the Constitution. I think that's what we're gonna come to. That's the first one. The other one. It was suggested that public television be set up. I think we're about to make this decision. And the third. I support the adoption of a draft decision. I realized that he was also supported by the Yavorowski deputy, who was one of the most active initiators in 1990 under the totalitarian regime of the most complete, or perhaps the full broadcast of the meetings of the Supreme Council on the first channel of television, the repeat of the evening on the second channel and the full broadcast on the first channel of the radio of all sessions of the Supreme Council. I am grateful to him that, many years later, he has come to realize the need for a return to that broadcast regime, to publicize the work of the national deputies. But what can you do? I think once we've adopted a draft ruling, we need to break the criminal case against the President, against the Kulik and the Kuljiks, against everyone who's involved. [[I'm stressing again, I'm supporting him.]] I think you understand what this is about. Because once we approve of a director, a head of department, or a company, in half an hour they refuse to comply with our orders, and this decree is a standard required for implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u62	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. The discussion is over, unfortunately, the time is up. Please turn on the Zarubinski microphone. There's something he wants to say, something so energetic. What did we let out, didn't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u63	Thank you. I was asking questions about Evening magazine. I would like the MPs to hear the information anyway, because his fate is unknown and his role is unknown.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u64	All right, let's finish, I'm sorry, time's up. Sergey Ivanovich, don't be afraid anymore, please, when you're taking such a break between the regime and the broadcast. Dear colleagues! Let's go to the vote. Please sit down, everyone, get ready. We have two draft rulings: proposed by the Preparatory MP and prepared by the National MP Pravdenko. I am putting to the vote the issue of adoption on the basis of the draft ruling proposed by the Preparatory MP Group. Yes, please sit down and prepare for the vote. For reasons, please, Yavorowski. I can't help but give him my word, for reasons I have the right to give.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! I find it hard to imagine a national MP who is now voting against the draft decision made by the working group. The one who votes against this draft decree represents the deaf. I ask you to vote for this, especially since the Supreme Council no longer has Natalia Vitrenko, no Charodieuva, and we can broadcast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u66	Thank you. I just want to remind my colleagues of one thing. Please, it's a good thing that there are no deputies at the moment of the last summons called Yavorowski, but every time you speak, you call your colleague's last name, if he doesn't like it, he's entitled to a replica, keep that in mind. Vote. Who is in favour of the draft decision of the preparatory group, please vote. Please enable the system. "For" - 342. Thank you. There have been many suggestions in our colleagues ’ speeches, and we have no right to ignore them. I'm just gonna give you some names. Valentina Petrovna spoke, and many others of our colleagues made suggestions. There's a True Project that also has proposals that can be taken into account. Let's make a decision to make these proposals and what's there, Truth. But you have to make additions, and they're not formulated, you see. Everyone talks about some things that need to be taken into account in the ruling, and there is nothing to vote on. But the suggestions are very interesting. So let's take all of these proposals and we'll ask Pravdenek, together with Georgi Korniyovich, to work with the subgroup, and tomorrow we'll vote definitively. The truth, please, with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u67	Thank you. I find your offer quite acceptable. It's better to work properly and then take it. If this is not accepted by the hall, I would ask paragraph 6 of the draft decision of the preparatory group concerning the Voice of Ukraine to replace it with paragraph 4 and paragraph 5 of my draft decision. In addition, replace the term "on a proportional basis" where it meets with the term "on a representative basis." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u68	Sergey Makarovich, thank you. But you may agree with what you said in the fourth, fifth, and then put it there, but perhaps you should put it on paper. It's a motive. Please write it down for reasons. Let me explain. Twenty-six national deputies were enrolled. Please, Deputy Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u69	I'm testing the system. Something in this vocation has become more involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u70	You see, please don't turn it over. Droguncs Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u71	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u72	Now I've got a Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u73	I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy Valery Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u74	Please. Valerius Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u75	Dear Victor Lavrentiovich! According to the Rules, we have a second draft of a decree. Let's put him to the vote. He's not dialing, let's say, the required number of votes, let's put your proposal to account, and let's vote, what are we going to talk about here?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u76	You know, the first project was adopted by 334 votes. Why would we put the other one? Clearly, when the first draft is in the vote, the second one is no longer in the position. There is a proposal to vote in general. Let's vote in general, please. Who would like to vote in general, please vote. Turn on the system. "For" - 331. Decision taken. And now for the 19th time, we have to think about how to do it, and think about how to do it. Next question. Report by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the third call of John Stepanovich Plush on the state of the legislative base in Ukraine. Ivan Stepanovich, please. Ivan Stepanovich, how much time do you need to report?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u77	Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Third Call. [[constituency 209, Chernigiv region]] Dear national deputies, guests, invited! In fact, I think that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus has worked in good faith and expertise by preparing a collection called "Help materials for the report of the Chief of the Supreme Council." This collection covers all chapters with statistical, reference, and professional status of legislation in one field or another. You know that I have never sinned by using the rostrum or by insisting on reports, but I am accused of failing to fulfill my duties. This report is therefore proposed by the preparatory working group in accordance with the Rules. I would just like to point out that each composition of Parliament, based on the achievements of the predecessors, has contributed to the formation of the Ukrainian legislative base. Could it be perfect today? Of course, I couldn't, because social transformations and transformations in all aspects of our lives during a transitional period are not ideal in themselves, so it would be impossible to ensure ideal legislation. However, during our recent history, the higher legislative body of Ukraine has worked out and adopted more than two thousand bills, which mainly regulate legal relations in all aspects of our lives. However, it is too early to talk about the stability of the legislative base, since there is usually no law to which we should not make changes and amendments or any other amendments over the years. If you take the main chapter or the main chapter of state-building, you know that after the adoption of the Constitution six years have passed, and today the improvement of constitutional legislation becomes increasingly a requirement, a standard of time or another category, and you cannot silence it or make any changes. You know that administrative reform has not led us to a logical conclusion, there are many speculations, but there is no regulatory act that clearly determines the implementation of administrative reform. The development of the legal principles of local self-government in Ukraine is largely in line with European standards, but the financial capabilities of our local authorities are so limited that they cannot even perform the functions of this law today. So they need to improve the relationship at the budgetary level. The opinion of the need to introduce non-selective and, above all, to the Constitution is gradually confirmed by the need for systematic and substantive changes, well-thought-out, scientifically sound changes to ensure constitutional and legal guarantees of stability in society, to accelerate socio-economic development, to deepen democracy, to form civil relations between the authorities and the opposition, and to minimize the negative impact on the general situation in the state of corporate interests, the political forces, the groups of our elite. In this regard, it is important that the newly elected Supreme Council does not delay the adoption of laws on all-Ukrainian and local referendums that would allow for the avoidance of the inadequacies between the President and the Supreme Council for the implementation of the referendum. Regrettably, despite the absence of the Rules or the rules clearly regulated by the Rules as our parliamentary constitution, six years after the adoption of the Constitution, we did not adopt this basic law, which would also make relations, and some would touch the majority and opposition, or minority. [[Two years ago, the Supreme Council and four years ago.]] That's an old question. I'll remind you how our patriarch Mikhailo Gruszewski wrote in 1907. As he outlined the mechanism for the work of the future Ukrainian Parliament, he noted the guaranteed representation of minorities as an element of "sociality, attitudes and positions" which "are important in terms of the interests of the whole country." Therefore, I believe that the absence of such a law on the Rules and those rules does not allow us to avoid disputes not only in Parliament but also between branches of authority that are not in favour. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has accepted a number of documents, but it must be said that our relationship today needs serious improvement. One of the priorities of the work of the Third Council was the legal guarantee of socio-economic development. We, the legislators of the legislative initiative, seem to have done a lot of work because for the first time in our history, there is a trend toward economic growth, but it is unfortunately not closely related to the growth of the income part of the budget. On the one hand, we are proud of the growth of 6-9 percent of the gross domestic product, and on the other hand, we accept a budget that even after adoption is not accepted by the President and other implementing structures. The greatest disadvantage in the work of the Supreme Council, which has gone down in history, is to amend the two main tax laws and not adopt the Tax Code. I'll tell you that in just two basic laws -- on corporate income taxation and on value added tax since their adoption in 1997 -- we've made 100 changes. I think that these changes not only allow our manufacturer, but even our accountants and taxpayers to be clearly governed by laws. Therefore, there is an urgent need for the adoption of the Tax Code. More or less, there were settled issues about the National Bank, banks and banking. But there are still many legal acts of the National Bank that regulate these issues. It's time to have the Banking Code anyway. A number of laws have been developed in Ukraine to support domestic producers. You know, we've passed laws to support whole sectors: aircraft building, shipbuilding, space industry. And over 30 laws have been passed to develop an agri-industrial complex. But it has to be said that the country's land relations are unregulated today, and the adopted Earth Code needs, according to experts, up to 40 new legislative acts to determine the mechanism for regulating relations. Parliament’s view was to regulate the activities of business entities and to protect competition. A number of laws have been passed, but unfortunately, the Parliament has not had enough time to consider the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Civil and Economic Codes, which has significantly worsened the legal field in this area. One important problem is the administration of state and municipal property. You know, we've been talking for a long time about the need for a whole series of laws -- about the State Property Fund, about the administration of property rights. All of this has been declared and requires a separate law on municipal property. The characteristics of privatization in certain strategically important sectors of the economy need to be highlighted, so today it is a matter of regulating relations in reprivatisation. That's the law we've been talking about for four years. Unfortunately, it is not accepted. It would be appropriate for the new Supreme Council to return to these laws. Social protection of the population. You know that the Supreme Council has adopted the basics of legislation on compulsory public social insurance, insurance for temporary loss of employment and occupational illness in case of unemployment. But the construction of a whole system of social insurance can be considered completed after the introduction of two of its essential elements — pension and health insurance. The draft Pension Insurance Act, adopted in the first reading, and in the second reading, on medical matters, have significantly improved the legal field in this important area. A particular topic is social benefits and compensation. I'm asking you to think about it! Today, under our laws, 17.5 million citizens are entitled to free or extended transportation. 17.5 million citizens! So let us either enter free, or let us enter the second. The right to freedom from payment or reduction of housing and utilities is now being used by 6.4 million citizens, i.e. you have to change the form: either you give people money and they use it more effectively themselves, or there's a whole series. [[B in m in s a l in]] Or a normal pension, paying the right price. If all of you are to advise what needs to be done, this is exactly what the Supreme Council of the Fourth Call is to do. So I'm asking you, during this time that I've been given, we're not going to consider it. You know, I'm not going to stop at this. It should be borne in mind that the standards of a valid code of laws on Ukraine’s work are based on the situation when the State was the only employer and supervisor in the field of labour relations. The need to develop and adopt the new Labour Code is therefore urgent. Over the past decade, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed over 70 basic laws in the humanitarian sphere. And we have to give due respect to the professional committees that today the issues in the fields of education, science and science, culture and art are more or less regulated. More than 30 laws are in place in the field of health care, regulating the arrangements for the provision of adequate health care to the population, identifying organizational and financial bases for dealing with particularly life - threatening and health - related infectious diseases, such as tuberculosis, AIDS, and others. Environmental legislation was growing intensively. Environmental policy in the country is defined by the Environmental Protection Act. A number of codes have been adopted that have significantly improved legal regulation in this area. It is worth noting that Ukraine has created a proper legislative framework for law enforcement and is now enabling law enforcement authorities to significantly improve this work. Another problem is the consistent and full application of the laws that have been passed. But there is also a debt under the Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Enforcement Code, the Code of Administrative Offences and others. Legislation on national defence and security is more or less regulated. The Supreme Council of the Third Call made a significant contribution to Ukraine’s commitment to the Council of Europe, to bringing our legislation into line with international standards. Most of Ukraine's commitments, which were foreseen by the Conclusions of the 190th Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, have been fulfilled. Partially executed or at a certain stage of implementation can be considered a commitment to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. Needs a final solution to the issue of the transfer to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine of the administration of the penitentiary system. In analysing the state of the Ukrainian legislative base, some factors that affect the effectiveness of Parliament’s own work cannot be overlooked. The first is the time factor. Time requires more intensive work on draft laws, and so I just want to ask you. The biggest delay in development, with the passing, was those bills that were responsible for the two or three profiling committees. We were then forced to create working groups and so forth. So I think that the practice of increasing the profile committees didn't justify itself, on the contrary, there has to be a practice of reducing it, so that the committee gets more and more involved in the whole sphere of activity of one sector or another, and then there will be fewer interpersonalities. So please consider your new job. The second factor is the interaction of branches of power. Ladies and gentlemen, if we take the third call, you will see that the level of the laws that have been developed, adopted and enacted is 74 percent. So the fourth part of the time, we're not working for the result, we're working for the whole time, a re-examination, a re-examination. We've already tested all the mechanisms -- and accompanying the bill from the President's Administration, from the government, and from the Parliament being accompanied by a professional parliamentary committee, but the last session of the third call showed that 43 percent of the laws were vetoed. What's the worst? Those who prepare the bill also prepare proposals for vetoing. With this practice we have to finish, and I think it's time for the state legislature to develop and do a great deal of work at the pre-design stage. Today, Georgi Korniyovich Krüchkov spoke of a financial situation that hinders the implementation of legislation regarding the internal arrangements for Parliament’s work. I'm not talking about creating a material technology base that meets any of the lowest European standards. You know the state of funding. I thank her for this letter to Prime Minister Anatoly Kinach. I had a conversation today, and he asked me not to be so critical anymore, and he promises to come back and look into it. There have been several such promises. And, of course, I can't get past the question that I'm already talking about today, because I'm the main debtor, because I had a responsibility to ensure that this decision was implemented. I'll tell you from experience, a great deal of experience: if we don't create a parliamentary channel, like in civilized, democratic countries, these decisions and wishes will remain the way they were before that. They don't depend. So it's time to start a parliamentary channel, and our voters have the right to watch either the channel or the other channel or the third channel. Because if we share, we can't. Everyone for the people, everyone wants to do what's best, and they've shut up completely. That's why we have to open it. Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, I did not have the task of characterizing this period between 1998 and 2002, because we will soon hear a report by the President of Ukraine from a socioeconomic situation, I think there will be a broad analysis. I would just like to point out that the course set by the President of Ukraine for a tangible increase in the social orientation of reforms has not been widely implemented; we have not changed the situation for the better. [[By the way, it's supported by most of the people's deputies.]] I think that's a significant part of our guilt, the people's deputies of the third vocation. In completing the report, I would like to say that the newly elected Supreme Council is represented by deputies who have great governmental and legislative potential, life and professional experience. This means that the work of the newly elected parliament will be effective and effective. Thank you for your work. I'm waiting for your questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u78	Thank you, Ivan Stepanovich. Is there a question? Please log in. Please explain. Yes, 10 minutes, please ask a question. National Deputy Poliit Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u79	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word to Buiko Georgio Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u80	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u81	Thank you. Ivan Stepanovich! I have two questions for you in the face of eternal problems -- who's to blame and what to do? It's both Russian and Belarusian, by the way. This is the first question: Who is to blame that many of the bad laws adopted by the Supreme Council are not carried out by executive authority? And secondly, what must we do to effectively enhance the role of the Supreme Council in the life of our society?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u82	I'm going to start with the second one, because, as far as I'm concerned, it's more important. Dear National Deputies and Those Who Listen to Us! The Supreme Council, the Supreme Legislature, is a binding feature of the democratic, legal and social development of the State. Without the Supreme Council as the supreme legislative body, it would be unnecessary to talk about the development of democracy. So when the Supreme Council's accusations come out in one way or another, that's what they are. But I've already said that we have four pieces of legislative initiative and only one of them is the Supreme Council, and three others are the President, the Government and the National Bank. But if we look at the laws that have been passed and the bills that have been drafted, 75 percent are developed by the people's deputies, and 25-28 percent by the other three by the legislative initiative. But this is not theirs, this is our direct duty. I say again: a large percentage of promises, a large percentage of non-compliance, non-compliance with laws lies in the plane of the relationship between the government and the Supreme Council, between the government, the Supreme Council and the President. So, I've already said, the urgent need, the requirement of the people today -- the reform of the political system in the state. That's the answer to both your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u83	Thank you. National MP Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Following him is the national deputy Volinec. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u84	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 87, Ivano-Frankiv region]] Mr. Chairman, please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u85	Please. People's MP Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u86	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 203, Cherniewec region]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Chairman! As far as I know, the Rules do not provide for questions to the Head of the Supreme Council of the previous call. I think it would be possible to take John Stepanovich’s familiar information here. Now the question to John Stepanovich. We have long debated the draft decree on how to explain the work of Parliament. Are you, as an experienced MP, the head of parliament, your opinion on this matter? How can we ensure that this decision takes effect? It wouldn't be like in your favorite proverb that "we fought well, but we got beat up." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u87	I partly answered that question, maybe you just didn't notice. As for the first question. The rules do not clearly govern whether or not there is a question. And that's what the colossal colossals are all about. That's why I said we should work on the Rules Act in six years, so that it has a clear procedure. Then it will be easy for both the chairman and the national deputy, because they will know. The second question of enlightenment. I really already know what was the coverage of the Supreme Council's work -- and the full broadcasting of sessions on the radio and on television -- I know how they were silenced completely, and I know how average it was. Once again, as long as someone regulates this process for us, there will be no objectivity. There has to be a channel, and the Supreme Council on this channel has been lighting up its work. And it's the right of a Ukrainian citizen to watch what and who to listen to. Then everything will be in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u88	National MP Volinec Mikhailo Yakovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u89	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Please give the floor to Pavlovski Mikhail Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u90	Mikhail Antonovich, please. Deputy Taran, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u91	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Thank you. It's the Timoshenko Street. Ivan Stepanovich, three questions. First. You have already pointed out in your report that reforms are not sufficiently scientifically thought out. You confirmed the thesis of our curator at the World Bank, Marcelo Selowski, who said we didn't think through these reforms at all. So in the Supreme Council there are bills on the principles of internal and external politics, the principles of national interests that are based on scientific reform. Why are two summonses no longer considered and opposed by the President? And with regard to the President, he's really the world's champion of laws and powers, and he's got a lot of powers, and he can't handle them. So maybe in the constitutional process, in order to restrict the power of the President, to come to the parliamentary-presidential republic, and so we can improve our lives in our state? Do you agree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u92	I agree that making changes to the Constitution is an urgent need, but with a clear balance of branches of power. So that the change is not at the expense of one or the other, with a clear balance. And the clear balance is defined by the Constitution. That's the first one. The other one. As for the principles of foreign and domestic politics, we made our final decision in 1994. I repeat, in 1994. But it's a matter of parliament. Why did we combine it with the annual letter? This is already our question, why did we determine that the annual message replaces the decision on internal and external development. That's our business. Now it's about the veto and the championship. I've already said that to be the President, one way or another, and the same structure that drafts the law stands for it for months, and after it's adopted, the veto is prepared. So this is the disagreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, which we're talking about so much. A clear example is the State Budget. We have adopted a budget in the Constitution's term, on the second day the Prime Minister made a statement in the media, which is a completely realistic, balanced budget, and after a while we hear from other media that we would rather not accept such a budget. Well, maybe for someone better, and we did our constitutional duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u93	Taran Viktor Vasilovich. Please. Prepare Vashtuk Katherina Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u94	Julia Timoshenko's block. Dear John Stepanovich! You put ashes on your head here, like a basket in Zaporozhye Sichi, and talked about a large proportion of the MPs' guilt. That's true, but let's take the law on commission inquiry, the law on television debate, I could name dozens of laws that have been passed in the development of the democratic process, but the veto has been applied to them again and again. [[And you're even more]] I mean, is there any civil relationship between the President and the Supreme Council? Keep going. Is it just legislation? How many times did Deputy Jelyashevich ask for his health because you know who he was and how he was ordered to be beaten? Has the Public Prosecutor’s Office reacted in any way? No! No! I mean, I quote you literally that "our relationship with the President needs serious improvement." So we're going to want to improve, take into account our colleagues' calculations and things like that. But tell me quite frankly: do you think the President can improve? How can we arrange for it to be improved? And what will this improvement be like: Or in terms of learning your native language? Because the process of improvement is a dual process.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u95	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u96	Ivan Stepanovich, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u97	Yeah, let's start with the first question. So if you look at the analytics, and if I had more time to report, I would say so. Yes, unfortunately, the performance of the commission of inquiry is extremely low, and I do not remember any other commission of inquiry in the past 12 years that would bring the matter to an end. But let's think about why it's so low for 12 years. But only because it is not regulated by law but is regulated by someone. Therefore, there is an urgent need for the adoption of a law on the commission of inquiry that clearly defines the authority, functions, rights, and duties. And if such a law is voted upon and supported by 300 national deputies, it must be signed. Now for improvement. People's wisdom teaches that there is no limit to improvement, including for you and for me and for the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u98	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u99	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] The "One Ukraine" faction, Ukraine's Agrarian Party. Ivan Stepanovich, to me, you are the most experienced Head of the Supreme Council and the wise Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u101	So I have a wise question and a wish for the future Head of the Supreme Council: How can I improve the work not only of the constituency but also of the Supreme Council? Don't you think it's necessary, not for one of the executives of the Apparatus, but for one of the elected deputy heads of the Supreme Council to assign a job with the Apparatus, and to enhance the role of our Committee on Rules in this regard. I know the complaints of a lot of deputies who find it difficult to get to the Chief of Apparatus at that moment, or to the Chief of the Supreme Council, or to the Deputy, and they have to prove to no end that he needs a car today, or that he needs a car somewhere with a misunderstanding, or that he has a home and he's walking around all the time, facing the same kind of bureaucracy as other authorities. There is no such thing in our legislative body for deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u102	Dear Catherine Timothy! It was this morning that we had all the vocations. But they're here. In this room, 39 deputies, who have already been elected for the fourth time, have about 200 years of parliamentary experience and 90 years of age. I mean, I said on a reasonable basis that this MP Corps has every reason for effective activity. But that's half the work. And the other half, as you've pointed out, is the work of the Apparatus. So believe me, we've been drifting from the machine to 120 people. There were 650 deputies in the Supreme Council on the eleventh call, and the apparatus was 120. True, there were few plenary sessions at the time, four a year, but as documents were prepared for these plenary sessions, we need to learn, learn, and learn again. I don't get emotional, I talk about it all the time, everybody knows who it is and how I did it. Then, however, due to the decrease in the number of deputies to 450, but the Supreme Council moved on to a professional work principle, we increased the apparatus to 508, and the border number was projected to be 700. We got 508. If you ask the deputies of the twelfth, or the first call, because I'm being modestly graded, they'll tell you that the status of the MP and the camera worker was clearly expressed, and I know that. Then we've doubled the machine, and we have almost a thousand people, 900 people, you know the number. What did it take? There are no institutions that teach work in the apparatus, so the apparatus itself needs both education and skills development, and some specialized, some optional training.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u103	No, wait, not me, we chose Koval. That's why I don't want to take it all down to Kowal, people good. One man can't control a thousand devices. [[There's a standard of leadership that you want to know.]] So I think that first, we need to increase the status of the Head of the Apparatus. For example, I'd like to think about having a flag, that's a parliamentary badge, then it'll be easier for him to talk to his colleagues as equals. Consider, too, the possibility of increasing the status of this man. We cannot now talk about the introduction of another post of Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council to focus on this work, but we can increase the status of the Chief of Apparatus by making changes to the law. Then the structure of the apparatus can be seen. Now we're going to establish the structure, we're going to confirm the number, we're going to confirm everything. So I think that the work of the regulatory committee, I've talked about it twice and I'm going to say it the third time, wasn't on the right level. Who and how much he blamed is another matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u104	Last recorded by our colleague, Puzakov Volodymyr Thoković. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u105	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] No questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u106	I want to thank all the people's deputies for the third call, and I want to thank the newly elected deputies even more, and I want you to do your job very clearly, and then they will respect you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-14-m1.u107	Thank you, Ivan Stepanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the announcement. At 9 a.m. tomorrow, 30 minutes on the third floor of the former meeting hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be a meeting of the Provisional Committee of Countings. And now, if you'll agree with me, I'm calling the evening session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the Supreme Council will continue its plenary work. Good luck to you! Thanks for the job.
